AS part of efforts to preserve the environment, the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) is set to start using concrete as opposed to wooden electric poles in some of its projects across the country. Some of the projects which have started using the concrete poles include the transmission and distribution lines which were supplied for the construction site of the Julius Nyerere Hydro Power Plant along Rufiji River within the Selous Game Reserve. Energy Minister Dr Medard Kalemani was highly optimistic that the country will switch completely from wooden to concrete poles, having started using the latter for some projects in reserved and swampy areas. Dr Kalemani was reacting to a supplementary question posed by Sumve MP, Richard Ndasa (CCM) who had challenged the government to drop wooden electric poles and embark on concrete for the sake of protecting the environment. The minister explained that the government was in the process of creating a favourable infrastructure for making concrete poles as well as procurement of trucks to transport them to project sites. Meanwhile, Dr Kalemani told the august House that power outages which have been experienced in some areas in Songwe Region were due to maintenance work being undertaken to improve supply of electricity in the area. The explanation followed concern raised in a supplementary question by Mbozi MP, Mr Pascal Haonga (Chadema), over frequent power outages which had led to damage of electric appliances of some people in the region. However, Dr Kalemani reassured the MP that the power cuts were not due to shortage of electricity in the national grid but ongoing maintenance of infrastructure aimed at improving power supply. In a related development, Deputy Minister for Energy, Ms Subira Mgalu said since some imported transformers have been found to be defective, the government has directed the machines to be procured from local manufacturers which have been approved by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS). Ms Mgalu was responding to a basic question by Maswa West MP Mashimba Ndaki (CCM) who complained that many transformers installed through the rural electrification projects had blown-up.