TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has described the just ended youth basketball clinic camps conducted under the watchful eye of National Basketball Association (NBA) of America, as a big success. TBF president Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam on Friday that the clinics were a success and that local youths have been benefited a lot. Two basketball coaches from USA -- Chineze Nwagbo and Jim Cleamons conducted the clinic camps in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. The coaches among others also observed the Junior NBA league final that ended last week at the Jakaya M Kikwete (JMK) Youth Park in Dar es Salaam. Magesa extended Federation’s gratitude to the American Foreign Affairs Office, American Embassy, JMK Youth Park, Symbion Power and NBA for supporting the programme and make it happen. “I also want to thank coaches who conducted the clinics, our youths have benefited with the lessons imparted on them,” he said. Nwagbo and Cleamons spent few days in Tanzania conducting basketball clinics in Arusha, Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar. Nwagbo is a graduate of Syracuse University and was a professional basketball player for 11 years in various countries such as Spain, Chile, Brazil, Poland, Portugal, Israel and she won four Most Valuable Player (MVP) awards. She also appeared in the World Championship Games in 2006. Nwagbo has worked with the NBA in China, developing grassroots implementation of NBA-based basketball curriculum. Cleamons is a former professional basketball player and nine-time NBA Champion as an assistant coach. Cleamons played in NBA for the Los Angeles Lakers, Cleveland Cavaliers, New York Knicks and Washington Bullets. He was an assistant coach with the Chicago Bulls from 1989-1996 when the Bulls, led by head coach Phil Jackson and Hall of Famers Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen, clinched four NBA Championships (1991-1993; 1996). Cleamons was also an assistant coach under Jackson with the Los Angeles Lakers from 1999-2004 and from 2006-2011, an era that saw Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant leading the team to three-straight championships (2000-2002) and Kobe Bryant leading the Lakers to two more titles at the end of the decade (2009-2010). Magesa noted that they are optimistic that the skills imparted on the youth will take them and country to another level.