A three-day Africa Investment Forum ended on Thursday closing financial deals worth 40.1 billion US dollars up from 38.7 billion US dollars made in the inaugural event last year. The President of African Development Bank (AfDB), the organisers of the forum that target to tilt investment flow to Africa, Dr Akinwumi Adesina said 56 deals worth 67.6bn US dollars were discussed in board room session for possible closure of financial deals, a 44 per cent increase from last year. He said 52 out of the 56 transactions that went into the board rooms secured investment interests in the forum that has now become Africa’s top platform for investment financing after its inaugural last year. “The Africa Investment Forum 2019 secured investment interests for deals worth 40.1bn US dollar, compared to 38.7bn US dollar from last year. What an incredible achievement!, he announced at the closing event of the forum organised to advance projects, raise capital and close financial deals for projects that promote growth and development in the continent. Closed financial deals include a 600 million US dollars CCOBOD deal for Ghana and a 58 million US dollars deal for Alithea Fund for women. A concession agreement for the Accra sky train, worth 2.6 billion US dollars was also signed," he said. The investment forum attracted 2,221 participants from 109 countries attended, 48 from Africa and 61 from outside of Africa. It had brought together heads of state, project sponsors, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, and institutional investors to move projects from commitment to action. Delivering on the promise to redefine and unpack Africa’s investment opportunities was a key theme at the Africa Investment Forum. The 2019 Africa Investment Forum began on Monday living up to its promise to move from commitment to action. The opening ceremony was attended by President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa, President Nana Akufo Addo of Ghana, President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and Prime Minister Agostinho do Rosario of Mozambique. The Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Phillip Mpango represented President John Magufuli in the forum. “The time is now to move with speed to ensure that we unlock our potential…Indeed our continent is ripe for investments, but more importantly, it is also brimming with enormous profitable opportunities,” President Ramaphosa said in his address, as he urged investors to move beyond pledges.