NATIONAL Basketball League (NBL) 2018 men’s Champions JKT have won a wild card ticket to sail through to Basketball Africa League (BAL) second round. Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) president, Phares Magesa has confirmed in Dar es Salaam that JKT won one of the four wild card tickets after finishing third at the BAL first round Group D battle played at the National Indoor Stadium in Dar es Salaam from 16-20 October 16 to 20 this year. JKT finished third in the five-team group stage with two top teams winning automatic slots. JKT had to wait for the later decision as the thirdplaced best losers. JKT team Manager Jose Ngowi told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that they have warmly received the good news, adding they deserve it. “Were very happy, I think we deserve to be in the second round, we promise Tanzanians to work hard so that we represent them well in the second round,” he stressed. “I would like to commend JKT for the wonderful job, this is because they did well in the tournament,” he said. “I want to take the opportunity also to complement JKT’s Baraka Sadiki for becoming the overall BAL top scorer for all qualifying Africa groups and Stephen Mshana who emerged overall BAL Africa 2nd in assists,” stated Magesa. According to Magesa the BAL tournament is jointly by NBA and FIBA Africa. JKT have now entered the second round that draws 6 teams pooled into two zones East and West. Each of them will consist eight teams, and the best of three qualify for the BAL final to be held March 2020. East Zone Group H is scheduled to be held from November 17th to 22nd this year in Kigali, Rwanda, which will see Patriots BBC (Rwanda), CITY Oilers (Uganda), Ferroviario Maputo (Mozambique), G.N.B.C (Madagascar), K.P.A (Kenya), UNZA Pacers (Zambia), Cobra Sport (South Sudan) and JKT. Magesa said West Zone which is poled as Group G will be staged in Yaounde, Cameroon from 26 November 26th to December 1st this year. Teams that qualified for the group are F.A.P (Cameroon), A.B.C (Ivory Coast), A.S Police (Mali), A.S Nigelec (Niger), G.S.P (Algeria), Manga Basketball (Gabon), ASB Mazembe (Congo DRC), AL Naser (Libya).