Chief Justice (CJ), Prof Ibrahim Juma, on Monday directed High Court Judges recently appointed by President John Magufuli to refrain from acts that may compromise their impartiality, including entertaining instructions on how to conduct cases and deliver judicial decisions. “You must never receive any directions, orders or instructions on how to arrive at your judicial decisions,” the CJ said, when opening induction training for 12 newly appointed judges at the Institute of Judicial Administration, Kisutu Training and Information Resources Centre in Dar es Salaam. He told the new members of the bench that personal factors, such as personal values, beliefs and motivations should not interfere with their duty to maintain impartiality and must never be allowed to influence court proceedings and decisions they make as judges. “You must quickly learn subtle, but effective ways of dealing with external pressure from other judges or from more senior judges or from your legal assistants. Your personal albeit hidden political ideology, personal philosophy and career backgrounds must never make you partial,” the CJ stressed. The head of the judiciary further told the new judges that while such backgrounds shaped and enriched their judicial opinions, their former connections must never be avenues for interference with the decisions they make in the dispensation of justice. According to him, during their tenure as judges, they will encounter some impartiality trials, but they must overcome them by standing firm by their judicial oath. “I urge you to read the Code of Conduct for Judicial Officers of Tanzania, 1984. This code stipulates that judicial officers in Tanzania are guided by equity, fairness and integrity in their judicial duties,” the CJ said. Prof Juma also pointed out that Rule 1 of the Code of Conduct required the new judges to protect their judicial work from influence from their relatives, friends and colleagues. “A judicial officer, this Rule reminds you, not to allow or permit others to influence you,” the CJ said. When swearing in the new judges at the State House in Dar es Salaam on November 4, 2019. President John Magufuli directed them to respect their oath and fear God when performing their judicial functions. “The work of judging is for God only. But here on earth the judgment is delivered by the judge. Therefore, the judge’s righteousness is needed. Justice must not be delayed either,” President Magufuli said. He pointed out that there were several challenges the judges were facing on different areas, but he was quick to advice them that they should take them as tests. He, thus, urged them to go and discharge their duties effectively and serve Tanzanians, notably the poor, whose rights were often violated. The newly appointed judges are Ms Elizabeth Mkwizu, who was Deputy Registrar Court of Appeal, Mr Joachim Tiganga, the then Deputy Registrar in Charge of the High Court, Dar es Salaam Zone and Mr Augustine Rwizile, who was Deputy Registrar of the High Court. Others are Mr Fredrick Manyanda, who worked with the Director of Public Prosecutions Office (DPPO), Dr Deo Nangela, who was with the Fair Competition Commission and Ms Angela Bahati, who was serving as Assistant Secretary in the Law Reform Commission. The rest include Mr Edwin Kakolaki, who worked with the Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) and Mr Kassim Robert, who served in the Ministry of Finance and Planning. There are also Mr Angaza Mwaipopo, who served in the President’s Office (State House), Mr Ephery Sedekia, who was the Attorney General (AG) Secretary, Dr Zainabu Mango, the then Principal State Attorney in the DPPO and Mr Said Kalunde, who worked in the AG’s Office.