MAINLAND’S Kilimanjaro Queens on Saturday kicked off their CECAFA Women Championship title defence campaign positively, thrashing South Sudan 9-0 in their opening match. In the well-attended group A match played at the Azam Chamazi Complex in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro Queens ought to have won by a bigger margin had they effectively taken their chances. Kilimanjaro Queens, who are looking for their third consecutive title started the game aggressively, pinning their opponents in their own territory from the word go to the final whistle. In the early opening exchanges, the home ladies scored two goals which were disallowed and created hosts of scoring chances which they failed to turn them into goals. Dazzling striker Mwanahamisi Omary and her colleagues Situmai Abdallah, Dionisia Daniel Minja and Opa Clement Sanga wasted clear chances in the first half. Mwanahamisi, popularly known as ‘Gaucho’ due to her clever footing skills rectified her mistakes and managed to grab the first hat-trick of the tournament. She opened the floodgates in the 17th minute after she was set through by Dionisia outside the box and tapped the ball into the back of the net. After the goal, the hosts maintained pressure and Dionisia doubled the lead in the 32nd minute after charging down the left and released what looked to be a cross, which sailed direct into the back of the net, leaving goalkeeper, Esther Okot stunned. Three minutes before the interval, Mwanahamisi scored her second and third for Kilimanjaro Queens with an easy finish. Immediately after the restart, Mwanahamisi grabbed the hat-trick and the fourth for Bakari Shime side, after indistinctively arriving at Stumai Abdallah’s assist. It was one-way traffic as South Sudan kept getting weaker and weaker as the home team was 5-0 up in the 47th minute, when Dionisia cut clear past a thick of defenders, forcing her way into the box before beating helpless goalkeeper with a precise shot. Kilimanjaro Queens added the sixth and seventh goals through Stumai in the 48th and 50th minutes respectively and Julitha Tamuwahi scored goal number eight from a free kick rebound ball in the 52nd minute. Coach Shime introduced Eva Jackson for Diana Msewa, before Phermena Kizima came in for ‘Gaucho’. Opa Clement Sanga drilled the last nail into the coffin three minutes before the final whistle. She rounded off goalkeeper and easily walked the ball into the back of the net. Earlier on the day, their sisters-- Zanzibar Queens suffered a humiliating 5-0 defeat at the hands of Burundi in a one sided match of the same group. Sakina Said netted a brace with the first coming in the 24th minute and she stretched the lead in the 35th minute, before Sandrine Niyonkuru cultivated on Zanzibar Queens’ blunder to tap in the third for her side in the 55th minute. The fourth goal came from Zanzibar defender Aziza Haji, who pumped the ball into her own net in an attempt to clear the danger own goal before Burundians added the fifth with two minutes to go through Aniela. Kilimanjaro Queens top group A after the win, followed by Burundi both on three points but separated on goal difference. Zanzibar are placed third, while South Sudan are settled at the bottom of the group all are without a point. Group B comprising Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, and Djibouti will kick of their campaign today, with Uganda taking on Djibouti, while Kenya will face Ethiopia at the Azam Chamazi Complex.