HUAWEI has released a new white paper on the future of fixed-wireless access as experts’ estimate Africa broadband subscription to grow three-fold in the next four years. Huawei, Chinese multinational technology company, said in press release on Friday 08 November 2019 that Africa had estimated to have 6.6 million broadband subscriptions in 2018. “This market can grow by up to three-fold by 2023,” according to Ovum, a London based global technology research and advisory firm. Ovum’s research released in the beginning of this year showed there will be strong demand and rapid market growth for home broadband in Sub Saharan Africa in the coming five years. The number of broadband subscriptions in SSA will increase from 7.5 million in 2019 to 17 million in 2023. Huawei thus released 4G/5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) broadband whitepaper, which outlines how fixed wireless can bring broadband to all. According to Huawei, the high speeds and large capacity of 4G and 5G connectivity have made it possible to offer a Gbps broadband experience by utilising wireless networks, rather than requiring copper or fibre networks. “Thanks to advances in FWA technology,” Huawei said “those who previously did not have access to digital services can now access connectivity up to 10Mbps.” This was due to FWA lowering the barrier of entry to connectivity by drastically reducing costs when compared to fixed or mobile broadband. Experts believe that eventually 5G FWA will have a significant impact on fixed broadband in Africa just as 2G had on fixed voice more than 20 years ago. In addition, the research forecasts Africa will record the highest growth in enterprise fixed broadband subscriptions between 2018 and 2022, with a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 7.27 per cent, compared to 5.75per cent and 3.31per cent for Central and Southern Asia and Eastern Europe, respectively. FWA can also offer alternatives to copper-based broadband solutions, such as ADSL, by offering an average rate of 10-20Mbps at affordable prices and without the requirement of copper installations. “Those who want fibrelike connectivity, but can’t access fibre in their area, can also use fixed wireless to attain speeds of 50-100 Mbps during busy hours,” the release said. According to a recent ITU report, 50per cent of the world’s population will still not have access to the Internet by the end of 2019. Developing nations also tend to have significantly slower connection speeds than developed countries, with broadband speeds failing to pass 10Mbps in some countries. However, “ever-improving wireless technologies can help to improve the reach and reliability of Internet connections in these nations,” Huawei said.