DESPITE fading hope of having single East African currency in the next five years, the member states’ inflation swings in similar pattern in the last half-decade. The inflation patterns on monthly basis, according to the member states bureau of statistics, showed that since 2014 they swing in similar manners where Kenya prices were on the higher side. On the other hand, Tanzania, Rwanda and Uganda inflation fought to maintain lowest levels.Burundi and South Sudan are excluded from the list. Bank of Tanzania Director of Economic Research and Policy, Dr Suleiman Misango, said movement of price rises rates suggests comovement of factors that underpin inflation, such as food supply and oil prices. “Variations can still occur though, as there still country-specific idiosyncratic factors, at least in short term,” Dr Misango told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday. Tanzania’s economist-cumbanker Dr Hildebrand Shayo said the main reason is unified EAC central banks’ monetary policy stance to discourage imported inflation. “The EAC central banks control together inflation by encouraging local goods manufacturing to reduce demand for foreign exchange,” Dr Shayo said yesterday. He said by encouraging more production of local goods, member states minimise exchange rate risks to control imported inflation. “This creates money supply stability to individual member states and keep down inflation…and swing in the same direction either way,” Dr Shayo, who works for TIB Development Bank, said. Inflation is among four key criteria, if EAC bloc wants to attain a single currency. The bloc has set a unified inflation of 8.0 per cent. The statistics from the four bureaus—Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda—showed that on monthly basis price change for Dar was the lowest in the region since the beginning of the year—fluctuating between 3.0 and 4.0 per cent. Tanzania was followed by Rwanda that opened the year at 3.4 per cent but rose sharply mid-year to 7.2 per cent of October, after boarder dispute with Uganda. Dr Shayo said to keep price low it is imperative important for EAC members to ease and avoid enter regional trade and political disputes. “Trading among EAC countries help to keep inflation at low level for member states,” Dr Shayo said. The border disputes also raises price for Rwandan imported goods from within EAC and overseas since it’s a landlocked country. In EAC Rwanda biggest trading partner is Uganda with a total trade of 255.78 million US dollars a year, followed by Kenya 184.3million US dollars and Tanzania 134.56 million US dollars. In the region Tanzania biggest trading partner is Kenya moving goods worth 492.79 million US dollars followed by Uganda 311.41 million US dollars. On the other hand, Kenya biggest trading partner is Uganda with total trade of 1,003.78 million US dollars a year. According to the Monetary Union Protocol, the East African Monetary Institute (EAMI) was supposed to have been up and running by the year 2015 while the other institutions were supposed to be operational last year. The EAMI is expected to be a transitory institution to do all the preparatory work for the activation of a single currency regime before eventually transforming into an East African Central Bank. Member states are required to meet and comply with a debt-to-GDP ratio of 50 per cent, fiscal deficit—including grants—of 3 per cent of the GDP, overall inflation of 8.0 per cent and forex reserves of 4.5 months of import cover for at least three years before the launch of the single currency regime.