ENTERTAINMENT lovers will today flock to Posta grounds in Kijitonyama, Dar es Salaam to witness the grand finale of 2019 Wasafi Festival which is to be performed in the city for the first time. A number of famous artistes both from within and outside Tanzania have been lined up to dish out songs to quench desires of the audience in attendance expected to be drawn from all corners of Tanzania. Nigerian singer and songwriter, Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun, known professionally as Wizkid, is on top of the list ready to blaze the city of Dar es Salaam with his soul touching hits like Ojuelegba, Fever, Ghetto Love, Only Man she wants and many others. Wizkid, who is among the top singers on the continent, has collaborated with big artistes in the world including Drake and his arrival in the country will open another chapter as far as music stage performance is concerned. However, the show will be incomplete without mentioning the man of the moment Diamond Plutinumz, who in a past interview revealed that he wants to leave behind a memorable legacy today. “For a long time, I have not performed in Dar es Salaam and on the day (today), I want to show people how hot I am as far as stage performance is concerned,” Simba said. He also made it clear that 20 per cent of the amount to be generated from the festival will be channelled towards helping children who are set to undergo heart surgery at Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) in the city. “As we celebrate, we should also remember these children whose lives are in danger if they are not operated immediately that is why in a move to give back to the community, I have decided to donate 20 percent of the proceeds towards assisting them,” Diamond said. Just on Friday,  the venue was already on fire during sound testing exercise as people of all ages went there to have a glimpse of the real showdown set today while many others bought tickets which have been sold like hot cakes on the market. Ordinary tickets go at 10,000/-, 50,000/-, 100,000/-and 500,000/- respectively depending on the place where one will reside during the massive show.