MBEYA resident Winfred Mkumbwa has lost his case for payments of 100m/-damages he had demanded from SBC Tanzania Limited for allegedly breach of duty of care having consumed an adulterated pepsi drink. Justices; Richard Mziray, Rehema Mkuye and Jacobs Mwambegele ruled against Mkumbwa, the appellant, after dismissing his appeal he had lodged to challenge the judgment of the High Court, which had decided in favour of SBC Tanzania Limited, the respondent. “We dismiss this appeal for lack of merit and uphold the decisions of the two courts below. We did not see the logic behind denying the respondent costs in the High Court. No doubt the respondent was entitled to costs. We award (him) costs of this appeal and the two courts below,” they declared. The justices pointed out that from the evidence adduced, there was no controversy that the respondent company is the manufacturer of soft drinks known as pepsi and by virtue of being a manufacturer, the respondent is duty bound to ensure safety in its products to its consumers. “Thus, the respondent owes a duty towards its customers. As correctly observed by the trial court, a finding which we endorse, the respondent owes a legal duty of care not only towards the appellant but also to all customers it is serving,” the justices said. They were, however, quick to point out that for the claim of the appellant to sustain, then he was supposed to prove that the respondent had a duty of care; there was breach of that duty of care and as a result of that breach the appellant suffered damages. On the evidence adduced, the justices noted, the appellant contended that on the material day, he received a visitor and bought three bottles of pepsi product manufactured by the respondent and no sooner had they started to consume the alleged drinks, they started to experience stomach upsets. They observed further that such situation resulted into the two vomiting and loss of consciousness. Later on when they recovered, the appellant decided to examine the remaining bottle of pepsi and discovered that from inside there was an unspecified substance. However, the respondent through his evidence provided a scientific analysis of the whole process of sanitation and asserted that if the bottle will be contaminated with any unusual substance then it is hard for the said substance to remain, as the beverage could be interrupted in the process and remain half. Deducing from the two types rival evidence, the justices were of the considered view that even though the respondent owes a duty of care to its customers but the appellant had failed totally to establish on a balance of probabilities that the duty of care was offended. “We say so because the bottle contaminated with obnoxious substance was not the one which was consumed by (him). He tendered an exhibit which was not relevant for his case. He was supposed to tender the bottle containing the remaining substance which caused havoc to his health,” they said. Further to that, the justices went on, the appellant asserted that he felt stomach upset and started to vomit and later lost consciousness. However, they noted with respect, the appellant never produced any proof to the effect that indeed he suffered health problems. “We think that with such serious condition which resulted into loss of consciousness, he was supposed to attend hospital for medical examination and produce a medical report to that effect. He never did so, hence, we fail to agree with him that he suffered serious health problems,” the justices ruled. In conclusion, they were strongly convinced that the appellant failed to show the connection of the unopened bottle of pepsi he tendered as exhibit with the health problems he suffered. There is simply no nexus. “As the bottle presented was not the one which the appellant consumed, obviously he failed to link the damages claimed with the unopened bottle. We are increasingly of the view that the appellant has failed to prove his claim, hence, he is not entitled to any award of damages,” they concluded.