THE Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Prof Joseph Buchweishaija has commended Kahama District Council for putting enabling environment to industrialise through the special economic zones and export processing zones. “Kahama District Council in Shinyanga Region has become an exemplary in implementing the quest to industrialise through the economic zones,” he said after opening the two-day training to a delegation from Shinyanga Region hosted by the Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. The government has already directed district councils to put enabling environment to attract investment in the industrial sector that will enhance their contributions to economic growth. Due to budget constraints, paying land compensations by EPZA for developing industrial parks is an impediment but Kahama District has overcome this challenge by providing free land to serious investors in need to invest in industries. Shinyanga Regional Authority, Zainab Telack said Kahama District has set aside 500 acres of land for industrial development through special economic zones and export processing zones. “I thank the Industry and Trade Ministry as well as EPZA for your readiness to support our ambition to industrialise through the special economic zones,” she said adding that serious investors will be required to pay for the title deed only. She added, through the two-day training we will learn and acquire knowledge in order to roll-out the regional ambition to attract more investors for developing industrial parks. The EPZA Director General, Joseph Simbakalia said Kahama District Council is ready to industrialise and that other councils across the country should borrow a leaf. “Land is an important component in attracting investors that most of the councils failed to implement. But Kahama district council has gone a step ahead by setting aside sufficient land for developing industries,” he said. Kahama district council is an exemplary in implementing the government quest to implement industrialisation agenda. Kahama District Executive Director, Anderson Msumba said Kahama Oil Mill Group of companies have developed eight industries within the 500 acres, some are already operating and others have reached different stages.