COMMISSIONER of Ethics Secretariat Justice (retired) Harold Nsekela has been impressed by leaders’ timely submission of assets declaration forms as the secretariat verified judges and members of parliament properties. Speaking to reporters here over the weekend, Judge Nsekela said for the last two-weeks, the secretariat verified the declaration forms for the members of parliament and judges. He said the move aims at seeing if there are conflict of interest in their deals, business and other avenues that might in one way or another be against the code of conduct. The Ethics Commissioner said they had planned to check on details for conflict of interests to 181 parliamentarians during the just ended parliament but they made it to 132. “We have decided to conduct the verification on zero cost during the parliament session as all members are here, we saved the expenses and time if my officers would have to travel to meet them at their respective constituencies,” he said. He was thankful to National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai whom he said offered them with maximum cooperation, including space where the Ethics Secretariat officials were doing their jobs. The commissioner said those questioned were choice spread out and gender was considered to avert uncalled for complaints on their sample. Moreover, he said, they also make on choice from all east, west, central, north and south areas for fair representation during the verification though they target all to be covered under the exercise. He said the same would be carried out during the next year session as the move has given the Ethics Secretariat easy access to politicians who were hard to trace in their constituency due to their busy schedules. As for the high court judges, he said they interviewed 46 in the zones of Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Tabora, Mwanza, Arusha and Mtwara where the Secretariat has offices but also there are high court offices. “All went well and since the verification exercise is ongoing, more will be reached and let me remind all who falls under the mandatory submission of declaration forms as public leaders to do so before December 31 deadline,” he insisted. He said they will keep on using their zonal offices for the verification and cost cutting so that many can be reached out saying last year they were given 500m/- for the task but the logistical aspects made them verifying only 400.