SIMBA SC announced yesterday that skipper John Bocco’s training schedule has been adjusted as one way to speed up his recovery process and get him back into the team. Bocco has been out of action from the start of the season due to injury he sustained while on duty with his club against Azam FC in the Community Shield clash at the National Stadium in the city, a situation which has compelled the defending champions to rely on only one striker, Meddie Kagere in all their nine league matches played. The two formed a lethal scoring partnership last season which helped their team to score more goals than any other team, thereby enabling the Msimbazi Street-based side to clinch the title twice in a row. Of late, the absence of Bocco in Simba squad has attracted the public attention especially among Simba fans who are always biting their nails during games believing that the current striking force is not that dangerous. Even Head Coach Patrick Aussems has on several occasions been expressing his worries for using one striker insisting that the situation is depriving them many goals which lately has seen Lipuli FC overtaking them in terms of goals scored in the league. The latter have netted 18 goals against 16 by Simba. However, speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the club’s manager Patrick Rweyemamu said the technical bench has decided to deduct the training time that Bocco was previously being subjected to. “As of now, Bocco will be training for a short time in a move to make him recover quickly since the long training time was not helping him to heal properly,” he said. He further revealed that all his training schedules will be strictly watched over by specialised team’s doctors so that he should return back to normal duties as fast as possible. Simba continue to top the Vodacom Premier League with 22 points from nine games after winning seven, losing one and drawing one match respectively. They were denied opportunity to reach 24 points following a scoreless draw against unbeaten Tanzania Prisons at Uhuru Stadium. However, the reigning champions have so far displayed great defensive performance after conceding few goals (3) than any other team in the progressing league. The only three teams which have scored against Simba are JKT Tanzania (3-1), Mtibwa Sugar (2-1) and Mwadui FC who ended Simba’s unbeaten run via a 1-0 victory.