KENYA will parade 60 teams, while hosts Tanzania and Uganda will field 12 and 10 teams respectively for this year’s edition of ‘Chipkizi Cup’. The annual event scheduled for Arusha, from December 10th to 15th this year will see Rwanda dispatching two youth soccer teams. The Rwandan teams that have so far confirmed to come to Tanzania for the ‘Chipkizi Cup 2019’ include, ‘Right to Play’ and ‘Saint Vincent Palloti Real Soccer Academy,’ according to the event Coordinator, Alfred Itaeli. Kenya and Uganda have not yet named theirs. At least 120 football teams made up of over 2000 young soccer players, mostly pupils and students are expected to take part in the event. Organised by the Arusha-based, sporting talent recruiting and promotional institution of Future Stars Academy (FSA), the East African Youth Football Tournament, is going to bring to Arusha teams from, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, Zambia, Burundi and Zanzibar, as well as the host Tanzania Mainland. Local teams include the host, Future Stars Academy team; Upendo Friends Schools, Arusha Soccer Centre; Arusha Youth Development; UWC (former International School of Moshi), Tanzanite; New Vision and Arusha Meru International, all from the Arusha Region. Dodoma brings the Fountain Gate team; Dar es Salaam will field Azam FC and Magnet Academy; Singida comes with ‘Singida United,’ Kilimanjaro comes with ‘Black Rhinos’ from Moshi and Zanzibar once again brings into the fold the last year’s defending champions, JKU. Kenya will bring over 60 youth teams, making the country to have the highest entry yet; while Uganda outfits nearly ten clubs for the Arusha Chipkizi Cup. Tanzania is still registering more teams in addition to the confirmed 12. To be staged at the Tanganyika Game Trackers (TGT) grounds, the Chipkizi Cup marks its 10th anniversary in 2019 after its premier in 2009. Registration ends on the 25th of November 2019. The Director of Future Stars, Alfred Itaeli stated here that for the last ten years, the Chipkizi Cup tourneys have produced a number of promising youth footballers, including those that have managed to feature in international soccer events outside the country. Chipkizi Cup, the East African Youth Football Championship, is usually a tourney for young and mostly upcoming players aged between 9 and 20 years of age and these usually fall under the pupils and students brackets. Arusha Regional Football Association (ARFA) Secretary General Zakayo Mjema commented about the Chikizi Cup, saying that top official from the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) will attend the tourney. He was however concerned that it is usually other countries that get to field more teams and most players even though Tanzania is the one that always host these tourneys. According to ARFA officials, from next year, the TFF will slot the Chipkizi Cup into their calendars so that they may now be recognised as part of official country tourneys. Last year it was Kenya, which shone, topping the Under-13 category for both boys and girls. Zanzibar managed to top the Under-20 slots.