THE East African Court of Justice (EACJ) has refused to order the government of Uganda to refrain from implementing any of the provisions of Uganda’s Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 on presidential term limits. The Court declined to issue the order prayed for by the Applicant, Mr Male Mabirizi, who was seeking the court order to restrain the government, its agencies, bodies, commissions and any setting from implementing any of the provisions. He also wanted the court to halt the implementation of the Uganda Electoral Commission Strategic Plan and Road Map for 2020/21 electoral period or any related plans. The First Instance Division of the Court ruling on Friday declined to halt all processes or preparations for 2020/21 general election, including, but not limited to undertaking any step in the pursuit of amendments to electoral laws to align with Uganda’s Constitution. The applicant submitted that the case (Reference No 6 of 2019) to challenge the Uganda Constitution (Amendment) Act 2018 raised serious issues for consideration concerning the rule of law, democratic governance and universally accepted standards of human rights. He further argued that laws in Uganda remained in doubt until all legal challenges against the proposed provisions were resolved. Mr Mabirizi also contended that he would suffer irreparable damage if the Act was implemented, subjecting citizens of the Republic of Uganda to a law under scrutiny for infringing on the core principles of the rule of law, democratic governance and universally accepted standards of human rights could not be adequately compensated for damages. He thus asked the court to grant the orders sought in the application with costs. The Attorney General of Uganda represented by the Solicitor General, Mr Francis Ateko, opposed the application and argued that Mr Mabirizi had failed to satisfy the conditions for the grant of an injunction to halt the implementation of the Uganda Electoral Commission Strategic plan and the road map for the 2020/21 General Election. He further said the applicant had failed to show that he had triable issues before the court since all matters raised were resolved by the Supreme Court of Uganda. The respondent conceded that the interim orders were governed by Article 30 of the Treaty. In contention, the applicant must show a prima facie case with the probability of success and an injunction will only be granted unless the applicant suffers an irreparable injury that cannot be compensated. He argued that when the court was in doubt, a decision shall be made on the balance of convenience, therefore submitting none of these favours the applicant. Secondly, Mr Ateko said the applicant would not suffer any irreparable injury that could not be compensated in the event that he won the case which he had asked for damages and interest on the same in his pleadings before the court. Lastly, the balance of convenience is in favour of all Ugandans who are expecting in 2021 to have elections and so to halt the preparatory process would be a recipe for anarchy in Uganda. Hon Ateko asked the court not to grant the orders sought and dismiss the application with costs. Three applications arose from the case with reference No 6 of 2019 challenging the Uganda Constitution (Amendment) Act 2018. The case was filed by a resident of Kampala, one Mr Mabirizi against the AG a matter that was pending in court. The applications came before a bench composed of Lady Justice Monica Mugenyi (Principal Judge), Justice Dr Faustin Ntezilyayo (Deputy Principal Judge), Justice Audace Ngiye, Justice Dr Charles Nyawello and Justice Charles Nyachae.