HUAWEI has launched its public cloud in South Africa a year ago and pan-African customers are already consuming services from the facility. To this end, the company is planning points of presence in Nigeria and Kenya to make access to the South African data centre easier. The first region, Johannesburg, is already running with additional facilities set to come online soon, says George Thomas, solutions manager of the Huawei cloud business unit Huawei Cloud offers about 180 services. “First of all we opened our API gateway to integrate with customers’ applications and many services are already up and running.” About 1,7-million developers are signed up to write new solutions on the platform. Huawei’s public cloud data centres are built on the company’s own server, storage and networking hardware and self-developed chips. “Whatever we develop in R&D is integrated into our cloud platform,” Thomas says. Huawei is today launching Kunpeng Elastic Cloud Server (ECS) cloud services, adding the high-performance processor into the publiclyavailable platform. “This is the highest performing CPU in the market today,” Thomas explains. “It is 25 per cent faster than any other cloud virtual machine.” The ecosystem that spans x86 and Kunpeng processors can scale to meet any business need, he adds. The Kunpeng-powered cloud services will be made available to African customers by the end of December and will offer 15 per cent faster multi-core computing power and a 30 per cent higher performance/price ratio than the industry average. These cloud services offer an unprecedented capability to meet the ever-shifting requirements of a diverse range of public and private institutions. Underpinning the new cloud offerings is Huawei’s high-performance Kunpeng, explains Marcus Tay Soon Guan, director: cloud and data centre solutions at Huawei. The Kunpeng chip has been expanded into a full ecosystem that powers native applications, big data and hybrid cloud, with 80 per cent better performance and 35 per cent less processing time. Huawei’s hybrid cloud solution helps carriers and enterprises to accelerate intelligent transformation. Huawei Cloud is the public cloud offering, while the Huawei Cloud Stack enables the private cloud and customers can even extend the public cloud into their own data centres with Huawei Cloud Stack Online. Artificial intelligence (AI) touches on just about every business, adds Thom-