DEPUTY Minister for Finance and Planning Ashatu Kijaji told lawmakers that the government had settled debts amounting to over 2.528trl/- between financial 2016/2017 and the first quarter of 2019/2020. The debts were owed to suppliers, contractors and consulting engineers, in addition to various service providers and public servants who were being owed arrears. Dr Kijaji explained further that out of the amount, 379.072bn/- was disbursed to pay suppliers, contractors and other service providers during the period. She gave the explanation in response to a basic question by Tabora Urban MP Emmanuel Mwakasaka (CCM) who had expressed concerns on arrears owed by the government to suppliers and service providers. The deputy minister noted further that the government had been allocating funds every financial year to settle debts owed by the government. The payment is however effected after the debts have been verified. The government has put in place a strategy aimed at settling all debts which have been verified to avoid longstanding arrears. The debts include those owed by government ministries, departments and agencies, in addition to regional secretariats and arrears owed to public servants, she explained. Dr Kijaji assured Members of Parliament that the government will continue allocating funds every year to settle debts it owes to various service providers after verifications. She said the government issues a circular every year which guides the ministry of finance and planning to enable the government to release funds to settle debts on one hand and still provide services to the people on the other. According to Dr Kijaji, a big chunk of debts owed by the government will be settled during the forthcoming 2020/2021 financial year. Meanwhile, the Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Governments, Mr Selemani Jafo, told parliamentarians that the government had identified and completed verification for compensation amounting to 575m/- for 62 people in Kibaha, Coast Region.