THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the High Court order for compensation of over 596m/-to Dodoma-based renowned businessman, Frank Pilla, by Insurance Company, Tanzania Insurance Co. Limited, following a fire accident that destroyed all his commodities in his shop. Justices; Batuel Mmilla, Sivangilwa Mwangesi and Jacobs Mwamvegele ruled in favour of the businessman, the respondent, after dismissing the appeal under which the insurance firm, as appellant, had lodged to fault the judgment of the High Court. “In the end, the appeal fails. We uphold the trial court's award of 596,927,000/= in favour of the respondent. We likewise award him costs before this Court,” they declared. During hearing of the appeal, it was stated that the trial court erred in law for holding that the appellant who was brought in the suit as a third party was legally responsible to pay 596,927,000/= to the respondent, while the person who brought her as a third party was held not liable to the respondent. Such defendants were the National Bank of Commerce Ltd (NBC Ltd) and African Risks Insurance Services Ltd (ARIS Ltd). In their judgment delivered in Dodoma Registry recently, the justices found no merit in the assertion that the respondent did not plead fault in the plaint as regards the appellant. “This is essentially because after (been introduced) the case by ARIS Ltd and on coming on board, the appellant did not resist settling the claim, but the dispute was on the extent of the amount, that is how much was she to pay. That means she accepted the liability,” they said. They noted that in the circumstances of the case and when the facts and evidence as a whole are intensely considered, the problem did not center on the question of distribution and, or indemnity as such, but was narrowed down to how much ought to be paid to the respondent. According to the justices, after occurrence of the fire accident on April 20, 2014, the respondent reported the incident to the NBC Ltd, who in turn communicated with the insurer, or broker, ARIS Ltd, who conveyed that information to the appellant, as the third party. They observed that the appellant visited the locus in quo five days later and subsequent to that, he consulted an insurance surveyor and adjuster, who carried out investigation at the fire accident scene and prepared report, in which he recommended the respondent's actual loss stood at 62,000,000/=. “Basing on that, the appellant made a proposal to the respondent to accept the payment recommended thereof but the latter declined on the ground that it was too little compared to the value of the stock in his wholesale shop at the time of the fire accident,” the justices said. Therefore, they agreed with the counsel for the respondent that the appellant did not refuse to indemnify the respondent so as to attract the application of the third party procedure principles. To the contrary however, they said, the dispute centered on the amount payable. There was also a contention that the trial court did not properly evaluate the evidence on record and arrived at a wrong decision in the case. The justices disagreed with the appellant’s counsel that the evidence constituted in some exhibits was not properly considered. “To the contrary, those documents were intensely deliberated, the respondent's evidence was found to be overwhelming. Guided by the evidence, the trial judge correctly found the exhibit established that 19 dayså before the accident, the respondent's stock was worth 596,927,000/=,”they said. Facts show that by 2014 the respondent was a renowned businessman in Dodoma Township (now Dodoma City), having a wholesale shop along Kuu Street in which he was selling a range of commodities he sourced from different suppliers. The suppliers included Tanzania Cigarette Company, Furaha Biscuits, Mohamed Enterprises and Bakhresa Group of Companies. He was a client of NBC Ltd and secured a bank overdraft of 180m/-, which enabled him to have a large stock of the commodities in his wholesale shop worth of 720m/-. The NBC Ltd successfully influenced the respondent to secure, or protect the risks in respect of the trade stocks in his wholesale shop by obtaining an insurance policy. Ensuing, the banker introduced him to ARIS Ltd, who was an insurance broker, and in turn she brought in the appellant as an insurer.