ABEL &Fernandes Communications and AAR Health Care Center have joined hands to closely work with the Tanzania government to fight diabetes through a well-coordinated campaign that would go countrywide. The revelation was made in Dar es Salaam by Abel &Fernandes Communications Executive Director, Fatma Fernandes, saying that the burden of the disease cannot be taken for granted because it is growing in the country. Joined also by other stakeholders, the director noted that their main approach to fight the noncommunicable disease would include educating community members that the lifestyle disease can be avoided if one observes the basic ABCs. “The diabetes campaign seeks to improve health and quality of life of the people to avoid infection, and this campaign has been launched with several partners as stakeholders to promote its prevention. “The burden of diabetes in Tanzania is growing with over 4.2 million known cases for people now living with diabetes in the region. “ Abel & Fernandes has understood the problem and has therefore resorted to initiating plans to educate the public so that they can get proper treatment and care. “To be able to achieve its objective of awareness, Abel &Fernandes aims to work with doctors and experts to ensure that proper care is given to the affected people in all the hospitals countrywide. “Action starts now and the first step is for the government to advance diabetes care and increase efforts to establish national strategies for this disease with full implementation and regular monitoring". “This would also allow better use of resources, which are essential if the region is to build a successful response to the diabetes epidemic in Tanzania,” she pointed out. However, according to a medic from AAR Heath Care Centre, Dr Akil Msei, noted that diabetes is an avoidable disease that becomes chronic and still affects many people. “There are two types of diabetes, noted as type one and two; the latter is preventable and this is what we are trying to address so that we prevent its increase,” he said. The medic further said that the campaign was launched to improve the lives of people with the disease on how to manage it and live comfortably, adding: “We will have road campaigns that would include visiting Tegeta and Kariakoo in Dar es Salaam with several stakeholders also provide practical mobile clinics. “The campaign is a tentative welcome for the World Diabetes Day that occurs annually on 14th November, where this year we shall have mobile clinics and breakfast whose menu will be considerate to individuals, who have diabetes and attended by other stakeholders also.”