THE Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, has urged youths who graduate from Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA), to utilize the knowledge by securing self-employment. She equally appealed to parents to guide their children to join VETA colleges even after completing form four to get life skills. Minister Ndalichako made the appeal while launching the Ndolage VETA College in Muleba district’s Kamachumu Ward on Wednesday. “The government is keen to strengthen VETA colleges to enable more youths to get life skills. Parents should encourage their children to join VETA even after completing form four or form six. This will enable them to attain skills for self-employment. The government allocated about 4.0bn/-for strengthening ten VETA colleges in various regions,” she said. Minister Ndalichako commended Kamachumu residents and the Member of Parliament (MP) for Muleba North, Mr Charles Mwijage, for spearheading construction of the college. People contributed building materials, including bricks, sand and labour by constructing four classrooms to window level, while Mr Mwijage contributed about 200 corrugated iron sheets before the buildings were handed over to the government. VETA Director General, Dr Pancras Bujulu informed Prof Ndalichako that VETA’s target was to triple the number of enrollment from 200,000 recorded during 2016/17 to 700,000 by 2021. “This was in line with the government efforts to increase quality education. Ndolage is among 40 VETA colleges earmarked for construction or rehabilitation. The project will cost about 260m/- upon completion,” he said. He noted that the facility was scheduled to start functioning in January, next year by offering four long courses in welding and metal fabrication, masonry and brick laying, tailoring and secretarial and computer application. He noted that computer application courses would greatly help graduates to be self-employed in the competitive labour market. About 80 youths will be enrolled for long courses, while 300 others are listed to get short courses, including driving, masonry, computer, tailoring and metal fabrication.