MUHIMBILI Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) is effective January next year expected to start performing brain surgery without opening the skull, it has been announced. The minimally invasive brain surgery is the technique by which surgeons safely remove the brain and skull-base tumours through smaller and more precise openings that minimise collateral damages like injuries or other damages inflicted on an unintended target— blood vessels and nerves. MOI Executive Director Dr Respicious Boniface made the revelation in Dar es Salaam on Friday during a media briefing on the achievements recorded under the fifth phase administration over the past four years. Dr Boniface noted that the procedure Endovascular brain aneurysm coiling—doesn’t need to cut into the skull to do the surgery. The technique involves passing a tube (catheter) through the groin functional area between the abdomen and thigh on either side of the pubic bone up to the artery containing the brain aneurysm. Brain aneurysm, also known as cerebral aneurysm, is a weak spot in the wall of blood vessel inside the brain. It is a bulging, weakened area in the wall of an artery in the brain, resulting in an abnormal widening, ballooning or blistering. “Our goal is to maximise treatment while minimising disruption to vital neural structures within the brain. This not only avoids complications but also minimises the chance of infection, promotes more rapid healing and less painful recovery,” he noted. He said the facility was in the last stages setting up an advanced brain treatment suite (Angiography- suite) that will offer better care for patients with blood circulation problems in the head and neck like stroke and aneurysm. Dr Boniface further said besides the surgery, they could handle the preoperative and recovery aspects of the procedure in-house, reducing patient waiting time, increasing comfort and allowing one to return home quickly after surgery. “The government disbursed 7.9bn/- in May this year to set up the suite, currently equipment is on its way, we expect to commence offering the services in January 2020,” said Dr Boniface. He noted that the equipment will also be used to provide diagnostic and interventional care to reduce and eliminate leg pain through minimally invasive procedures to improve blood flow and positively affect quality of life. The director noted that the suite will make Tanzania one of the few African countries that offer the service. On infrastructure, he said in four years, the bed capacity has increased to 340 patients in the general ward compared to 150 in the previous years when patients used to sleep on the ground, with some given mattresses to sleep on the stairs. Dr Boniface asserted that during the four-year period, 43,200 patients underwent various surgeries including, 900 hip conversions, knee replacement to 870 patients, hip bone surgery to 618 patients, brain surgeries to 880 patients, children with hydrocephalus and incomplete closing of the backbone (Spina bifida) to 2,070 people. “The cost of these treatments was 16.5bn/- but if patients were referred overseas, the treatment could have cost 54.9bn/-. The institute has therefore saved 38.4bn/-,” he explained. He further explained that during the period, 50 orthopaedic surgeons have graduated compared to seven graduates in the previous four years. Additionally, four neurosurgeons graduated during the period, compared to none in the previous years.