SIMBA SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems showered praise on Tanzania Prisons saying they were well organised no wonder are still unbeaten in the ongoing Premier league. The defending champions were deprived maximum points at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday after recording their first draw of the campaign thereby slowing down the pace at the top of the ladder. Immediately after the draw, fans took their disappointments to social media where they attacked head coach insisting that he has no plan B especially when the team is overwhelmed like what happened on Thursday. Simba have 22 points from nine games while their opponents Tanzania Prisons have bagged 19 points from eleven matches and remain the only side to succumb to defeat this season. They have since dropped four points in three successive games after a 1-0 defeat at Mwadui FC before winning 4-0 against Mbeya City and then a scoreless draw against Prisons. But, at a post-match press briefing, Aussems admitted that it was one of the toughest games for his side this season labelling Tanzania Prisons as a competitive team. “It was a battle between two teams with different approaches as we tried to play football while they wanted to defend and attack something which worked better for them,” he said. He also said missing the services of striker John Bocco, who is still nursing injury, has had a big impact to the team’s striking force as the current striker Meddie Kagere lacks a partner upfront. Moreover, the Belgian trainer said the injury of Miraji Athuman has made things worse to his team mainly at the striking department saying the pressing has decreased. “As you saw during the match, we tried to go to the left, right, made substitutions but still failed to get what we really wanted. Anyway, congratulations to Tanzania Prisons for the great performance,” said him. On his part, Tanzania Prisons head coach, Adolf Richard said defensive discipline among his charges was the secret behind their invincible performance. “We had to defend well against a big team Simba and make sure that we minimise making silly mistakes. We excelled to do that even though it was not a simple task,” he said. He added: “Claiming one point from Simba which has seven players who play in the national team for us was a big plus and we are happy.” He also revealed that the game was very physical that’s why his players were frequently demanding attention from doctors brushing aside that it was a time wasting move from the players.