AIR transport in Tanzania is gathering momentum, thanks to the construction of Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) Terminal 3 and purchasing of more Air Tanzania Company limited (ATCL) aircraft. The latest was the second delivery of Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner, which arrived in the country on October 26, this year, thus making ATCL’s fleet to 11. Other airports have been improved to reflect Tanzania’s envisioned middle-income and industrial economy, which in turn has increased investments in various sectors of the economy. There are other initiatives that have been made to make this a reality today. As the old adage goes, ‘where there’s a will there’s a way’. Thus, as we have decided to develop air transport, we must keep it up so that its vibrancy continues uninterrupted without compromising quality services. There are more flights now to and from JNIA and this means more revenue and opportunities for the country and people. This makes Tanzania’s aviation industry more vibrant and able to compete locally, regionally and internationally as a result of ATCL improved services. Moreover, more bilateral aviation safety agreements (BASA) will be signed and a five-star hotel will be constructed near JNIA. This will boost air transport between Tanzania and other countries. This is according to Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) Director-General Hamza Johari, who was speaking at a press conference organised by Tanzania Information Services in Dar es Salaam on Monday. There are other initiatives that have been made such as the purchase of four surveillance radars at 67.4bn/- and the installation of two radars at JNIA and at Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA). The installation of two more radars at Mwanza and Songwe airports is ongoing. There are notable efforts made to ensure Tanzania’s air transport matches international standards. This will not only market Tanzania, but also boost local tourism as more visitors will be able to plan their trips to Tanzania where they are assured of standard and safe air transport and hospitality. We are really elated by these developments in the aviation industry and we are sure of remaining active competitors in the aviation industry. What we still need though is to maintain the pace that has started so that we don’t slow down, but rather keep striving for more local, regional and international routes. Air transport adds value to general public transport in the country. We believe that a country which has reliable public transport is at a competitive advantage in business and investments and this is what we have decided to do. We are hopeful that ATCL will remain an active competitor in air transport not only at local and regional levels, but also internationally. So, let’s keep this fire burning more and more.