A TOTAL of 6,000 people had visited the Tanzania’s pavilion during a five-day Second China International Import Expo (CIIE) held from Tuesday to Saturday last week. Also, a total of 124 business meeting were held between Tanzania and Chinese companies, with 38 Chinese firms expressing the intention of buying 50,000 tones of processed cashew nuts. The expo that was launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping aimed at providing opportunities for various countries to showcase their products that they can export to China as part of expanding their market to a world’s largest populated country that has 1.4 billion people. At the Tanzania’s stand, visitors got an opportunity to see various products such as cashew nuts, coffee, tea, Tanzanite, sisal, tobacco, sesame, leather products and cloves. They were also introduced to number of tourism attractions available in the East African Country. Tanzania’s Ambassador to China Mr Mbelwa Kairuki said the country has benefited from the expo as everything went successful. “More than 100 million people got an opportunity to see Tanzania’s pavilion through China’s national television CCTV and other local TV stations during the tour of President Xi to our stand on Tuesday,” he said. According to the ambassador, most of people who visited the pavilion were seeking information on how they can buy cashew nuts from Tanzania. “They wanted to see our cashew nuts, and this was due to the coverage we got from President Xi’s visit to our stand where he admired the cashews and Tanzanite,” noted the envoy. He went on to explain that hundreds of people have also shown interest to buy Tanzanite that were showcased at the pavilion, terming it as a nice move that would play a great role on improving the country’s export volume. During the expo, the government was represented by minister of Industry and Trade Mr Innocent Bashungwa who challenged Tanzanians business men to make better use of good diplomatic ties between Tanzania and China on expanding their market size.