ENVISAGED plea-bargaining agreement between Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau’s (PCCB) former Director of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Kulthum Mansoor and Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has failed. Advocate Elia Mwingira, was speaking at Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday when the 1.4bn/- economic and money laundering trial against the former PCCB director came up for mention, asked Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina to direct the prosecution to expedite investigation process, arguing that his client is languishing in remand. But, the accused had written the DPP under the presidential amnesty to end the trial. Earlier, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon informed the court that the prosecution was still conducting investigations into the matter and asked for another mention date, promising to consult with investigators to speed up the probe. Magistrate Mhina adjourned the trial to November 26, 2019 for another mention. The defence attorney had on October 2, 2019, informed the court in terms of section 194A (2) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA) that Kulthum had written to the DPP, expressing her intention to enter into the agreement to end the trial. “My client has written the DPP with intention to plead guilty to the charges. We request the prosecution to follow up the matter to have this issue determined the soonest possible,” the lawyer had said. Responding, the trial attorney said he has taken note and would follow up the matter. In the case, Kulthum faces eight counts of forgery, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering amounting to 1,477,243,000/-. The offences were allegedly committed between January 2012 and May 2017 in Dar es Salaam. The prosecution alleges that between January 2013 and May 2018 at PCCB Headquarters in Ilala District, knowingly and with intent to deceive, the accused forged a letter of offer, purporting to show that it was issued by Bagamoyo District Council. Between January 2012 and May 2017 at Upanga area in Ilala District, being PCCB director, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, the accused obtained 32.2m/- from different employees—Alex Mavika, Wakati Katondo, Gogo Migutah, Ekwabi Majungu, John Sangwa and Rose Shingela. The amount, the prosecution claims, was payment for sale of plots at Ukuni Village in Coast region’s Bagamoyo District, with the accused pretending to own the plots. On money laundering, the prosecution charges that Kulthum, between January 2013 and May 2017 at Upanga in Ilala District, acquired 1,477,243,000/- knowing or ought to have known that the money receipt was proceed of predicate offence of forgery.