THE meeting of Southern African Development Community (SADC) senior officials responsible for health and HIV/Aids kicked off yesterday, focusing on discussing 13 agenda items around issues of malaria, HIV/Aids, nutrition, child and maternal health. The senior officials' meeting precedes a conference of the SADC ministers of health and HIV/Aids scheduled for Thursday this week. Opening the senior officials' meeting in Dar es Salaam, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Zainab Chaula, said the meeting would come up with 20 decisions to be forwarded to the ministers' conference for implementation. "The decisions will need approval from all ministers for implementation,” Dr Chaula noted. To ensure the attainment of the goals of the SADC Regional Strategic and Development Plan (RISDP), the meeting will review its key agenda, deliberate on the status of implementation and present recommendations that will enable ministers to make decisions. Representative of the SADC Secretariat, Dr Willy Amisi, said about 90 per cent of delegates from member states had confirmed to participate in the meeting. He commended the government of Tanzania for tremendous organisational skills displayed in the preparation of the meeting, hospitality and generosity. The SADC member states made progress in the fight against communicable diseases in the past 15 years, contributing to a substantial reduction in the burden of diseases and transmission across the region. Data indicates that between 2015 and 2018 there has been a 15 per cent-reduction in tuberculosis mortality and the number of new malaria cases has decreased by almost 24 per cent. Tanzania has reduced the rate of new HIV/Aids infections by 20.6 per cent among adults and 31.3 per cent among children below 15 years old from 2010 to 2018. On the other hand, Dr Chaula expressed Tanzania's commitment to increasing access to better health services and reduce expenditure. This is in line with the political declaration on the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) signed by SADC Head of States during the UN General Assembly in September. Tanzania has expanded a network of health facilities through the construction and rehabilitation of more than 350 health facilities and improved fiscal decentralisation to enable better access of health services for the vulnerable and marginalised thereby decreasing the number of people left behind. 