BEAUTY is not the only criteria used to recruit the cabin crew of the national flag bearer, Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL), the National Assembly was told. The explanation comes just a day after Ms Hasna Mwilima (Kigoma South- CCM), thrilled the august House when she claimed that most of the flight attendants for the national airline are not appealing compared to their counterparts in other airlines. The lawmaker urged the airline company to employ qualified air hostess but also consider beauty as one of the criteria. “Beauty is not one of the criteria we use to recruit flight attendants. We use several other criteria including being Tanzanian aged 18 years and above”, Atashasta Nditiye, Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication told the National Assembly yesterday in Dodoma. He was contributing to the Second Five-Year National Development Plan (2016/17– 2020/21) and national budget estimates for the 2020/2021 fiscal year. Eng. Nditiye said that qualified flight attendants must be fluent in both, English and Kiswahili languages and poses a certificate indicating that she or he completed airline formal training program for cabin crews. He said the air hostess should also poses a cabin crew license provided by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA). He said they are also required to be knowledgeable on various international affairs as well as the country’s tourism information. “Flight attends should be respectful, wise and ethically grown. Despite having all the academic qualifications, we investigate them to be sure they fit working for the airline”, Eng. Nditiye. Explained In the basic question posed by Igalula MP, Mussa Ntimizi (CCM) complained over poor communication services to the residents of Tura ward especially those in Mwamlela, Mmunyu and Ikongwa villages. He tasked the government to ensure availability of communication services due to its importance economically. In response to the question, Eng. Nditiye said the government is working with the Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF) to ensure reliable communication services to residents. He said a number of projects including construction of communication towers are implemented at the area. He explained further that in July 2019, UCSAF announced tender for construction of communication towers in 521 wards across the country.