THE Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College (KCMUCo) has made another milestone after producing the first graduates in optometry at degree level in the country. Optometry is a profession concerning vision, the practice which includes the determination and evaluation of eyes’ refractive status. KCMUCo is a constituent college of Tumaini University Makumira (TUM). TUM Chancellor, Bishop Dr Frederick Shoo, conferred the Bachelor of Science Degree in Optometry on 16 graduates during the KCMUCo’s 20th graduation ceremony. Speaking on the occasion, KCMUCo Provost, Prof Ephata Kaaya, said the introduction of the optometry degree programme at the university college would help students study the field of medicine which they had to seek outside the country. “Optometry is one of the unique programmes provided by our institution. Since its introduction it has drawn many applications inside and outside the country,” he said, adding that future university plans were to improve the optometry programme to ensure it was sustainable because it provided experts in one of the sensitive areas of medicine. A total of 623 students graduated this year at the university, of which three of them were conferred with the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Degree, whereby this year the college had admitted nine PhD students. TUM Vice Chancellor, Rev Prof Joseph Parsalaw, hailed the government, the Higher Education Students’ Loans Board (HESLB) and the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) for cooperating with the university that he said had contributed to TUM great achievements. Prof Parsalaw challenged the new graduates to focus and observe good ethics to help them serve patients. “Your profession is a very noble one. It is a good job for it saves people’s lives. Go and adhere to the oath of office you took today and serve people well. By doing this, you will gain great honour in the community,” he said. He challenged the new graduates to follow the footsteps of their colleagues who had graduated from the university in the past most of whom he said were praised for the good job they were doing inside and outside the country.