THE government has urged workers of the National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) to have a system of conducting various researches in the health sector that will provide solutions to problems in the sector instead of spending a lot of time and resources in conducting other spheres. The call was made here yesterday by Deputy Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Dr Faustine Ndugulile. He was officiating a two day research engagement stakeholders meeting which was attended by researchers, Regional Medical Officers (RMOs), District Medical Officers (DMOs) and referral hospitals medical officers in charge from Lake zone regions. he minister reminded the researchers that the country was still facing a number of communicable diseases which were now increasing rapidly, but surprisingly, researches conducted in the country were not providing solutions for the diseases. He praised researchers for the good job they were doing, but cited diseases like malaria, UTI and typhoid, for which solutions had not been found. “I don’t believe that as a country, our problem is malaria, UTI or typhoid; we are feeding our patients a lot of tablets but we have not yet come up with answers of the root causes of these diseases,” he remarked. He said what was worrying him most, was to see most of the youth across the country suffering diseases such as kidney failure and diabetes. “We want you to inform us what the reasons for kidney failure are; can HIV be the reason for kidney failure from your research findings?” he queried. He said when toured various NIMR laboratories he witnessed a high level of different research reports on HIV, vaccines and various diseases, but wondered what the capacity of those researches was to get solutions to various diseases. Dr Ndugulile assured researchers across the country that the government was working tirelessly to ensure that they did well in their research work under a very conducive environment for the betterment of the country’s development. On his part, the NIMR Director General, Professor Yunus Mgaya, said NIMR was planning to strengthen its research findings by working jointly with regional medical officers, district medical officers and service providers in the health sector so as to end various challenges like that of data collection. Prof. Mugaya said in previous years, NIMR was conducting its research work without involving health experts ( RMOs and DMOs) at both regional and district levels, but would now work together so as to tackle existing research challenges, especially in the data collection area.