THE Tanzania Bureau of Standard (TBS) is set to open offices at entry ports to curb the importation of substandard helmets. TBS Standards Officer, Afrika Yona told ‘Daily News’ that substandard helmets had been flooding the local market through the country’s porous entry ports. “We have already opened an office at Bagamoyo Port, where we suspect fake products are made through into the country. We plan to open more offices at other entry ports to curb the importation of substandard products,” he said. Mr Yona was responding to concern raised by road safety stakeholders over the presence of fake helmets used by motorcyclists, thus putting their lives to risk. A road safety ambassador and legal analyst with Tanzania Law Society (TLS), Mr Markphason Buberwa, urged TBS, the traffic police and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to jointly crack down on substandard helmets. “The issue of substandard helmets is public concern that should be handled by all actors to help curb the importation of fake helmets and ensure motorcyclists purchase and wear standard helmets,” he said. He also called for public awareness creation and education to motorcyclists on the importance of wearing protective helmets for their safety. “TBS, the traffic police and TRA should cooperate to ensure fake helmets don’t flood the country’s market and provide educate motorcyclists on the importance of wearing approved protective helmets for their safety,” he said. Speaking during an event to mark World Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims, a member of the National Road Safety Council, Mr Augustus Fungo, said most motorcyclists were aware of ways to protect themselves, including wearing of a protecting helmet, but were negligent. “Most motorcyclists think wearing of a helmet is just for a traffic police matter, forgetting their safety and that is why most of them opt for buying substandard helmets,” he said. Mr Ramadhan Danstan, a leader of the association of motorcyclists in Tanzania said the presence of fake helmets in the country was a result of motorcyclists’ negligence, which was detrimental to their safety. “Fake helmets are sold cheaply, which creates a good market for low cost and substandard helmets. As you know, most motorcyclists are those from poor families and once they come across such helmets sold cheaply they cannot resist the temptation of buying them,” he said.