RESEARCHERS in the country have recommended the expansion of contract farming to include both cash and food crops as latest findings show the move has increased efficiency in agriculture. According to them, this has addressed some challenges facing smallholder farmers especially the availability of farm inputs and reliable markets for their produce. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, Mzumbe University lecturer, Dr Mursali Milanzi, said his institution through the Potential and Limitations of Contract Farming (Policofa) Project had conducted research to assess the impact of contract farming on market and input access focusing on three crops-tobacco, sunflower and sugarcane. Dr Milanzi, who is also Policofa Project Coordinator, said the scheme had proved to be beneficial not only to individual farmers, but also to areas where the project was implemented. He was speaking during a national conference on contract farming organised by Mzumbe University in collaboration with the Institute of Rural Development and Planning and the University of Copenhagen. “The government has for a long time been taking a number of initiatives to uplift smallholder framers. There is a need for the government to come up with a system that will allow other crops to be incorporated in the scheme to benefit the majority of farmers,” he said. Dr Milanzi noted that contract farming should be given priority as the country aimed at attaining the middle-income economy status by 2025 because it had a huge impact on the living standards of smallholder farmers. According to him, contract farming involves agricultural production being carried out on the basis of an agreement between buyers and farmers. Sometimes it involves buyers specifying the quality required and prices, with farmers agreeing to deliver at a future date. For his part, former Policofa Project Coordinator, Prof Joseph Kuzilwa, said during the first phase implementation of the project, the system proved to be effective as farmers were assured of inputs and directly connected to the market. Prof Kuzilwa noted that in countries such as India, Latin America and Europe the system helped a lot in addressing challenges facing farmers. He said there was a need for expanding the system and work on a few challenges during the implementation of the project such as on contracts entered between farmers and buyers to safeguard the interests of both parties. “Contract farming is crucial especially at this time when the government is implementing the industrialisation agenda,” Prof Kuzilwa said. Mzumbe Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Prof Ganka Nyamsogoro, challenged academicians to ensure research findings were made available to targeted groups such as farmers.