FORMER Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), president, Jamal Malinzi on Friday reacted to the verdict given by the world football governing body, FIFA, imposing 10 years ban and over 1bn/- fine for allegedly embezzlements of funds, saying he was punished unheard. In a press statement issued in Dar es Salaam, Malinzi’s Advocate, Richard Rweyongeza explained that his client “has all reasons to conclude that what has been done to him is contrary to all principles of natural justice and he is contemplating on what steps to take next.” The seasoned lawyers stated that Malinzi learnt through local newspapers that FIFA has sanctioned him with a ten years ban from all football related activities at both national and International levels and that a fine of 500,000 Swiss francs (1bn/-) has been imposed on him. In the decision, according to him, it was alleged that Malinzi was contacted at different times during the proceedings that led to the decision and that he was notified of the same. “This is unfortunate because Malinzi says he was not aware of any proceedings against him before anybody or body of persons except proceedings pending before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Hence if anybody was contacted by FIFA that was not Malinzi,” he stated. The lawyer explained that it is common knowledge that since the arrest of his client in July 2017, he has remained in custody till the present date and any correspondence to him, be it official or otherwise could only reach him through the Prison Superintendent where he has been incarcerated. “Nothing has been received by Malinzi from FIFA or TFF for that matter at all. It is very surprising that the decision makes reference to and a finding on charges that are pending at Kisutu against Malinzi and others where a judgment of the court is yet to be delivered,” he stated. In its verdict, FIFA stated that the former TFF boss received $528,000 over four years to repay alleged loans he made that “lack proper justification or explanation” and $55,000 others in prize money earned by Tanzania’s Under-17 team at the African Youth Championship in Gabon in 2017. FIFA says Malinzi was a member of its Development Committee — allocating project funds worldwide — and its fair play and social responsibility committee from 2013-17, when he was taking money. Malinzi was also fined 500,000 Swiss francs ($503,000). The decision by FIFA comes as Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde is set to deliver the judgment on November 21, 2019 in the trial of Malinzi and three others, who are facing several fraud counts. Other accused persons in the trial are ex-TFF Secretary, General Mwesigwa Celestine, Accounts Officer, Nsiande Mwanga and Flora Rauya, the Clerk with the Federation. The trial magistrate is set to deliver the judgment after going through the evidence produced in court by prosecution and defence. Facts of the case show that TFF holds and operates six accounts at Stanbic Bank Tanzania Limited and that Edgar Masoud, who was TFF Director of Finance and Accounting, was one of the signatories of such accounts. With the view to change the signatory to such accounts, the prosecution told the court that on September 1, 2016, Celestine presented to the Bank, Center Branch a resolution dated June 5, 2016, purportedly made by TFF Executive Committee. It is alleged that with such resolution, Masoud was replaced by Mwanga. The prosecution alleged that such resolution was not an outcome of the Committee, but was forged by Malinzi and Celestine. After Celestine had introduced Mwanga to the Bank as their newly appointed signatory, she was recognised as TFF signatory and was involved in signing cheques, payment vouchers and other payment documents. On the other hand, according to the prosecution, for the time spanning from June 1, to December 31, 2016, Malinzi was raising false receipts on pretext that TFF had borrowed money from him. In the strength of the said false receipt, Malinzi was reclaiming payments, it is alleged. It claimed also that Celestine, in his capacity as TFF General Secretary was also the accounting officer and was allegedly involved in aiding Malinzi to be paid. Mwanga in her capacity as TFF signatory was also allegedly involved in signing some of the payment documents. The prosecution alleged in addition that as from June 1 to December 31, 2016, Malinzi claimed and actually was paid the sum of 173,335 US dollars and 43,100,000/-. In the strength of such claims, the accused persons were arrested, interrogated and arraigned in court facing the current charges.