SIX students of Katoro Islamic Secondary School, who are facing a murder charge related to a Form Four student, have thanked the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (Necta) for allowing them to sit for the National Form Four examinations, which started on November 4, this year. Earlier, the students requested Bukoba Resident Magistrate Frola Kaijage to allow them to sit for the examinations and she advised them to channel their request through Necta. “We are grateful to Necta for allowing us to sit for the exams. The exercise is progressing well and the six students are sitting for the exams,” the court was told when their case No 18/2019 came for another mention yesterday morning. Two more students have been joined in the murder case of a Form Four student at Katoro Islamic Secondary School in Bukoba Rural District. Before Bukoba District Magistrate’s Court were Sharif Amri (19) and Fahad Abdulaziz (20), both students of Katoro Islamic Secondary School. Prosecuting State Attorney Suzan Masule told the court that the two accused together with six other accused jointly killed Muddy Mswadiku Said (19), who was a Form Four Student at Katoro Islamic Secondary School. The offence was allegedly committed on April 14, this year. Other accused are Badru Issa Tibagilirwage (27), a security guard, Majaliwa Abdu (35), a teacher, Usama Ramadhan (17), Sharifu Uledi (19), Hussein Mussa (20) and Abdallah Juma (19). The accused were not allowed to enter a plea because the murder case is under the jurisdiction of the High Court Resident Magistrate Kaijage adjourned the case until November 25, this year, and she ordered the accused to be remanded. On March 6, this year, High Court Judge Lameck Mlacha convicted Respicius Patrick Mutazangira (51), a teacher at Kibeta Primary School, in Bukoba Municipal Council for killing a Standard Five pupil and sentenced him to death by hanging. Two teachers- Mutazangira and Helieth Gerald (47) were facing a murder case No 56/2018 for the murder of Sperius Eradius (14), who was a Standard Five pupil at Kibeta Primary School. The offence was committed on August 27, last year. Judge Mlacha noted that Mutazangira acted with malice aforethought by punishing Eradius using a piece of firewood and a compass to force him to confess to have stolen Helieth’s wallet.