TANZANIA this week became the first country from Zone V member states to be introduced in world of the new sport, dubbed Teqball. This sport, which is essentially a cross between football and table tennis, requires extremely high levels of co-ordination and athleticism. The sport which was invented in 2014 and is played on a curved table and with a ball similar to a football, hit by any part of the body except the hands has landed in the country after the International Teqball Federation (FITEQ) donated three tables for the sport. FITEQ has donated three tables and 12 balls for the sport, which were distributed to Filbert Bayi Sports Centre at Mkuza, Kibaha, the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) and Dole Centre in Zanzibar respectively. Speaking during a brief ceremony held at the Filbert Bayi Sports Centre in the inauguration of the game, FITEQ Representative Marius VizerJr said the federation is currently working on promoting and introducing the sport globally after obtaining international recognition in 2017. He said the sport is played between two players as a singles game or between three or four players as a doubles game. VizerJr said that their plan for this year is to sign agreement with the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA), for them to introduce the sport in 40 federations. So far, he said, the sport has already been introduced in 14 countries. He said FITEQ will provide 6,000 euros annually to the respective country federation to support its operations as well as providing training for coaches and referees. On his part TOC Vice -President, Henry Tandau, expressed gratitude to FITEQ for introducing the sport in the country. He promised that TOC will help promote the sport starting by forming the national association. On his side, the Board Chairman of Filbert Bayi Schools (FBS), Filbert Bayi said that they will ensure the sport is promoted effectively. Teqball was invented in 2014 in Hungary by two football enthusiasts, Gábor Borsányi, a former professional player and Viktor Huszár, a computer scientist. A number of world-class footballers have been attracted by the game, and after being included at the African Beach Games, the sport is now aiming for Olympic inclusion. Renowned Brazilian football icon Ronaldinho has signed a partnership with Teqball, joining other legends of the game including Robert Pirès, William Gallas and Simão Sabrosa in promoting the emerging sport.