TAIFA Stars launched the journey to 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) with a 2-1 victory over Equatorial Guinea on Friday. Midfielder Salum Aboubakar ‘Sure Boy’ scored a last gasp winner after Simon Msuva second half strike cancelled out Pedro Mba Obiang opener for the visitors in the first half. The results present a perfect cushion for Stars heading into the next encounter of the qualifiers. Stars took on Equatorial Guinea in their first group J clash of the AFCON qualifiers at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, knowing exactly that claiming maximum points will do better for them. The game started on a positive note for Etienne Ndayiragije charges and just seconds into the game, skipper Mbwana Samatta missed from a sitter. The Belgium KRC Genk striker pounced on a ball following a defensive error but his feeble shot was easily picked by goalkeeper, Felipe Ovono Mbang. Then, in the 5th minute, versatile defender Erasto Nyoni who was deployed on the base of the midfield, picked Simon Msuva with a long ball on the right and the attacker brilliantly controlled the ball under tight marking and after two touches, he set up on rushing right wing back Hassan Kessy, whose shot flew agonisingly wide. Nicknamed National Thunder, Equatorial Guinea broke the deadlock with their first shot on target in the 14th minute with a brilliant 30 metres shot effort by Pedro Mba Obiang. The Spanish-born Equatoguinean professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Italian club Sassuolo was allowed time and space and fired in a powerful shot that caught Stars goalkeeper Juma Kaseja, leaving him flat footed. After scoring, the visitors who are under former Kenya’s Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne, slowed down the tempo. Stars almost pulled level in the 27th minute, when Nyoni brilliant set piece was cleared by keeper. In the 36th minute, Samatta’s looping header off an inch perfect cross from Kessy sailed narrowly over the bar and three minutes later keeper Mbang cleared Samatta’s shot off the line. The striker latched onto a perfect cross in by Kelvin Yondani. After the break, Stars came strong after Ndayiragije had introduced second striker Ditram Nchimbi, who slightly provided room for Samatta to frequently see the ball. Nchimbi narrowly fired wide in the 59th minute and after pressing hard, Msuva pulled level with a poaching finish in the 68th minute. Msuva arrived at a perfect cross in from Mohammed Hussein but his initial header came off the top bar and he followed it up with a right shot to beat keeper from a tight angle. Referee ignored a strong penalty shout from Stars in the 73rd minute when it appeared that Samatta was heavily challenged but the official considered it a fair challenge. Hassan Dilunga was introduced in place of Farid Mussa and the midfielder had an impact as Stars committed more bodies upfront. Stars survived a scare in the 86th minute when Pablo had the better of Bakari Mwamnyeto only to see his shot sailing wide. With time running out Aboubakar stole the winner in the final minute. It all started with Dilunga, who made a brilliant run down the left and teed up Samatta, who wasted no time to set up the scorer to fire in a screamer that precisely beat the keeper. After yesterday’s match, the home team will proceed to Tunisia to face Libya in their second encounter in the same group, which is vital as far as reaching to Cameroon, where the finals will be staged, is concerned. Taifa Stars is eyeing to qualify for the third time in the lucrative continental showpiece after making it in the 1980 finals held in Nigeria and 2019 finals staged in Egypt.