RESIDENTS of Mto wa Mbu in Monduli District, Arusha Region are bracing for the inaugural ‘Usalama Football Cup’, to engage commercial motorcycle operators. The event to be staged on November 29th this year is organised by Mto wa Mbu Police Station with the main target of reinforcing peace and security within the township. “The target is reinforce peace and harmony among local residents of this township, which previously suffered serious crimes against humanity including robbery, rape and mysterious murders of women,” said the event organiser, Peter Ngollo, who is the Officer in Charge of the Mto wa Mbu Police Station (OCS). Motorcycles, coming in both the two-wheeled (Bodaboda) and threewheeled (Bajaj) types, are the common modes of transport in Mto wa Mbu area and now these riders will be pitched for football match. Ngollo said the match will be played at Barafu grounds in Mto wa Mbu Township. The green valley area is also famous for rice, banana and potatoes’ farming. He is on view that; sports will help bring people together; because they intend to form ‘citizen on patrol’ strategy to ensure that the precinct remains a safe haven. “Meeting on informal grounds, makes it easy for residents to divulge sensitive information to the police; people do not want to report matters to police stations but when they come into contact with officers in friendly environment they tend to open up easily,” pointed out OCS Ngollo. Kuruthum Hassan is the Ward Executive Officer and she divulged that, the youth who work as motorcycle taxi transporters have managed to form groups that will also assist in maintaining peace in the locality. “I also take this chance to praise the Police Officer for bringing young people together creating a very united group of youth who will assist in divulging sensitive information should anything sinister occur,” she stated. Mdachi Hassan is the Chairperson of the Bajaj Riders in the precinct; he said that, since they have hatched this community based events, crime cases have been reduced. On his part, Kelvin Michael the leader of Bodaboda group said his team is made up of mostly younger people, which means they are more energetic than the three-wheeled lot; “we shall trash them black and blue,” he boasted.