THE police have been urged to cooperate with members of the public and political parties by showing maximum tolerance to minimise conflicts. “Let us work together and be committed to minimising unnecessary conflicts during elections. We, the police, will do our best to abide by laws and avoid using excessive force. But members of the public and political parties should also abide by laws,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mpinga Gyumi when he graced a workshop on law enforcers in ensuring peace and security during elections in Zanzibar. He made a statement on behalf of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) who was supposed to grace the meeting held at Golden Tulip Hotel in Stone Town. “We thank the Tanzania Human Rights Defenders Coalition (THRDC) for organising the meeting that aims at minimising conflicts during elections,” he said. Mr Gyumi noted that conflicts during elections could be minimised and avoided if police officers applied their skills, observed ethics and cooperated with stakeholders, but also citizens must respect law enforcers and avoid taking law into their own hands. “We will keep on reminding our officers of the importance observing ethics and human rights. I urge my fellow police officers to take this meeting seriously to build and strengthen relations with political parties and electoral bodies (NEC and ZEC) for violence-free elections.” Mr Nasser Makamboja, who is responsible for security during elections, noted that they were preparing for ensuring peaceful elections in the future. “We have the powers and the means, but the use of force will be the last resort. Everyone is responsible for maintaining peace and stability during elections.” THRDC Coordinator, Onesmo Ole Ngurumo said during the workshop that police officers were arguably the number one ‘human rights defenders’ in the country because they were responsible for peace and security during elections. “We ask police officers to refrain from using excessive force during elections for it is unnecessary,” Mr Ngurumo said during the workshop which also attracted journalists and representatives from political parties in the country.