LEARNING institutions in the country have been encouraged to incorporate gender issues in their day to day programs as one of the ways to promote gender equality. This was said by the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Ave Maria Semakafu when she presided over the launch of Gender Awareness and Transformation through Education (GATE) project. The project has seen the Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE) partnering with Ireland’s Trinity College Dublin (TCD) for the sake of enhancing gender expertise, capacities in research and education at DUCE. “As you know, this government under the leadership of President John Magufuli is working hard to reach middle income growth, and that can only be achieved if both men and women are given equal opportunities without segregations,” Dr Semakafu said. She added that time is here for people to positively transform their mindset on gender issues and start considering it as an essential topic in all spheres of life. “Let me congratulate DUCE for this big achievement, and I believe that those who will have an opportunity to benefit from this initiative will not be selfish but rather educate their colleagues too,” she said. Earlier, Dr Susan Murphy from TCD said GATE thrives to create an environment where every student can reach his or her potential regardless of their gender. “I am impressed with DUCE, because they have a strong gender unit which is working hard to facilitate gender equality education, and we are also grateful to the support rendered by the government, which has established good gender policies for everybody to enjoy,” she said. According to her, the project will run for three years, but it is renewable, and so far, two DUCE academic staff have secured sponsorship to study gender and education at TCD, with one post being of PhD while the other is for postdoc. Also, DUCE Gender Unit Coordinator, Dr Ikupa Moses lauded the strong gender partnership that exists between them and TCD, insisting that the intended goals of the project will easily be achieved. “This initiative has arrived at the right destination since we do produce teachers who, upon finishing their studies, will be responsible in imparting gender education they have attained here to their community members out there,” Dr. Moses said