HEALTH experts’ recommendation of adopting a one-health approach as a strategy to reduce antimicrobial resistance in humans is commendable, but long overdue. We say this because not all people are knowledgeable about the withdrawal period – that is the minimum period from administering the last dose of medication and the production of meat or other animal-derived products for human consumption. Here is where the problem lies. The withdrawal period must be long enough to ensure medicinal residues in animal or plant tissues are below the maximum limit. In any case, in animal husbandry farmers should know when and how to treat animals and when they should sell animal products to consumers because chemical residuals in animal products pose health risks to humans. The experts’ recommendation has come as a result of antimicrobial resistance in humans caused by medicinal residuals in animal tissues and consequently in animal products. According to an epidemiologist, Prof Japhet Kilewo, animals can cause antimicrobial resistance in human beings if the withdrawal period is not considered after treating them. This is because when animals are treated with the same type of medicine used for treating humans and a person happens to eat products like eggs, drink milk or meat before the safe period, it means the products still have antibiotics and the person consuming them will in the long run be affected. When one consumes antibiotics without being advised by a doctor, one risks creating in one’s body antimicrobial resistance and when such a person falls sick and needs medicine it won’t cure him or her. With many people engaged in self-employed projects, livestock keeping and aquaculture it is most likely that some of them will concentrate more on profit than on human health. That is why it is important for producers and sellers to consider both the profit and the health of consumers. Prof Kilewo further says that the antibiotics contained in the foodstuffs cannot be removed by cooking and the only way to be safer with it is to observe the withdrawal period of at least 14 days after treating the animal. But how many people observe this? This certainly needs public awareness so that farmers, producers and sellers of foodstuffs know and observe health standards to minimise risks consumers are subjected to should they buy and consume the foodstuffs that contain chemical or medicinal residuals because they have far-reaching consequences. We shouldn’t wait any further, the time to raise public awareness is now. Let’s do it and at the same time heed the experts’ advice.