AGA KHAN Hospital has called for concrete plans through engagement of all key health stakeholders to address diabetes which is on the rise. Speaking in Dar es Salaam during diabetes medical camp, Aga Khan’s Internal Medicine Physician Dr Samina Somji said the hospital recently ramped up efforts in diabetes care by initiating a specialty diabetes clinic with a multidisciplinary approach to patient care that involves physician, dietician, diabetes educator and an ophthalmologist. In marking world diabetes day, Dr Somji said, “The Aga Khan Hospital has participated in radio and television campaigns and organised diabetes medical camp to raise awareness, aid early diagnosis of people at risk factors, symptoms, complications, prevention and treatment of diabetes by specialists, including physicians, ophthalmologist and dietician.” She said that the studies show that two per cent of people with diabetes die of its complications and in Tanzania 9.1 per cent of one in 10 people have diabetes where there are 1.7 million people in the country living with diabetes and 1.3 million were undiagnosed. According to her, the rise in diabetes particularly type two which is largely preventable, could in many cases be halted if people knew the symptoms and risk factors so they could adopt a healthier lifestyle or, if necessary seek treatment at earliest. She said that management involves medications and lifestyle changes, which include healthy diet and regular exercise. “Diabetes is a chronic disease that occurs either when the pancreas does not produce enough insulin or when the body cannot effectively use the insulin it produces. The campaign to raise awareness should be continuous and not a one day initiative,” she said. She mentioned some risk factors for diabetes as obesity, lack of exercises and family history of diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure. Diabetes may not initially give any symptoms but excessive thirst, hunger and urination may develop over time as weight loss, numbness in the feet and hands, infections or injuries that heal slowly. During world diabetes day on 14 November each year, there are different activities that are done around the world, including diabetes screening programmes, radio and television campaigns, sports event and others. This year, the day was marked under the theme ‘Family and Diabetes’. Dr Somji pointed out that if diabetes is left untreated or unmanaged it can lead to life changing complications like blindness, amputation, kidney failure, heart attack and stroke, saying diabetes has devastating complications if not treated early and managed appropriately. She drew attention to initiatives taken by AKHST to raise awareness on risk factor and primary prevention as well provide single stop low cost clinic for treatment and prevention of serious complications in line with the national non commutable diseases strategic plan.