AMID growth of virtual currencies uses in the country, the central bank has warned against trading, marketing and usage of computer-generated currencies, saying it’s contrary to foreign exchange regulations. The famous virtual currencies— cryptocurrencies—in the world are Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Ripple (XRP), Litecoin (LTC) and Bitcoin Cash (BCH). The Bank of Tanzania (BoT), in a statement to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, said it was aware of the incidences where “These currencies are being marketed and traded.” “Moreover, there are some individuals claiming to have engaged the Bank of Tanzania on the use of such virtual currencies,” it added. BoT is the sole institution in country which is mandated to issue banknotes and coins as per Section 26 and 27 of the Bank of Tanzania Act, 2006. The banking sector regulator maintains that the only acceptable and usable legal tender in the country is the Tanzanian Shilling. “Other foreign currencies are traded by licensed institutions in the country in line with applicable foreign exchange regulations where the currencies could be issued and redeemed in the country of issuance as a legal tender,” the statement added. The ‘Daily News’ had in December 2017, sought the regulator’s position over the usage of online generated currencies and responded by warning wananchi to exercise absolute care when using them since they were not under any regulator in the world. BoT’s warning was prompted by a sharp drop in the value of the famous digital currency—Bitcoin— having dropped to 16,563 US dollars and 12,191 dollars close to Christmas Day in 2017, after having shot to as high as 19,000 dollars. Responding to the ‘Daily News’ questions, BoT’s Director of National Payment System Bernard Dadi said like other financial institutions, the central bank was closely monitoring online digital currencies, including Bitcoin and had put its senior staff through capacity building sessions focused on cryptocurrencies. “Cryptocurrency experts from the United Kingdom have already conducted workshops for BoT management and senior staff on these currencies,” the director explained. Since the money is generated from computerised codes, some analysts believe that security of the digital currencies was not reliable. While some investors have welcomed the cryptocurrency, some market analysts remain skeptical while others believe it’s just a ‘bubble burst’. In June 2017, the online site, CCN, wrote that cryptocurrencies are gradually being discovered in Africa, with its report citing South Africa, Ghana, Kenya, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Nigeria where a semblance of digital currencies, including Bitcoin, was manifested. Kenya, like Tanzania, has been showing subtle interest in the same unlike South Africa where the usage of crypto currency is already deep. However, despite air of mystery that still surrounds virtual currencies, Nairobi has Blockchain Association of Kenya that brokers bitcoin and digital assets locally. It’s twelve years now since bitcoin was launched in 2007 and it’s quite clear that the crypto world is not a passing phase. And, some money analysts have it that the currencies are here to stay as many like to describe it as “the money of the future”. Despite its risks, cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that is secured by cryptography, which makes it nearly impossible to counterfeit or double-spend. Many cryptocurrencies are decentralised networks based on blockchain technology—a distributed ledger enforced by disparate network of computers.