MEDIA houses risk licence annulment or heavy fines should they continue using unprofessional people in content broadcasting. Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) gave the stern warning in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday amid growing trend of some TV and radio stations opting for the untrained personnel. Through a media advert, the electronic communication watchdog reminded all media houses to observe the country’s laws and broadcasting licence terms that require all broadcasters in the media houses to qualify as journalists. TCRA Director General Engineer James Kilaba said lately, it has been a habit for some media houses especially radio and television stations to employ and use unqualified journalists to broadcast contents in their media houses, violating the broadcasting ethics in the country. Eng Kilaba stressed that having broadcasters who are not qualified journalists has increased ethical transgressions, which are against clause 7(2)(a)(iii) of the Media Service Act, 2016 that demands media houses to uphold professional code of ethics. He emphasised that per clause 19(1) of the Media Service Act, 2016 nobody shall practice as a journalist unless that person is accredited in accordance with the provisions of the Act. He added that article 17(2) Media Service Regulations, 2017, states that the person eligible for accreditation shall be holder of a diploma or degree in journalism or media related studies from a recognised institution that offers journalism or related studies; or holder of any other degree or diploma in media related studies. Meanwhile, Zanzibar’s Ministry of Information, Tourism and Antiquities has issued stern warning to owners and editors of media houses in the Isles, saying it’s a criminal offence for unqualified person to work or get involved in journalistic works, including writing, broadcasting or editing. The ministry directed that any media house found employing unqualified person will be subjected to stern legal measures. Information Minister Dr Juma Mohammed Salum stressed in the statement that using unqualified journalists in the media industry like radio and television as well as online TVs and radios is going against the law. Speaking to the ‘Daily News, Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF) Secretary General Neville Meena said the industry is governed by laws and regulations and TCRA is the regulatory body fulfilling its responsibilities. He urged, “I advise people who think they are talented and desire to work in the media industry to study and achieve the needed qualifications in the field. After all, anyone who is determined can go to school irrespective of age.” Mr Meena said for the media houses to avoid clashes with regulatory bodies, they have to adhere to the laws and regulations. Senior lecturer at St Augustine University of Tanzania (SAUT) in Dar es Salaam Dr Joseph Matumaini who lectures communication policy among other subjects said journalism is not a mere display of talent but a fully-fledged profession. He argued that like any other profession, to practice in the field especially in reporting, broadcasting and editing, one has to qualify academically. “Any profession has its ethical code of conducts and regulations, having professionals in the media industry will reduce if not remove the ethical transgressions that are now rising especially in the digital platform,” said Dr Matumaini. He added that this will also help all gatekeepers in the field to have the ability and work efficiently as they are aware of their responsibilities and ethics. Media Council of Tanzania (MCT) Executive Director Kajubi Mukajanga said the media practitioners like anchors, broadcasters and editors need academic qualifications to acquire skills that are at per journalistic ethics. “The problem in the media houses today especially with electronic media is employing people with the likes of comedians and celebrities and entrusting them with professional responsibilities,” he said. Mr Mukajanga stressed, “We are not saying people should not enter in the studio but only media practitioners should work as news anchors and editors.”