TANZANIA Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) has named strong national men and women teams, ready for the forthcoming Africa Zone V Beach Volleyball 2020 Tokyo, Japan Olympic qualifier. TAVA Chairman Patrick Mlowezi said in Dar es Salaam that Tanzania has already confirmed their participation in both categories at the Tokyo qualifier. Mlowezi said that the Confederation of Africa Volleyball (CAVB) has honored Tanzania with an opportunity to host women’s category Group 6 battle that is scheduled to be held at Mbalamwezi Hotel in Dar es Salaam from January 9-13, 2020. “Teams that will compete at Mbalamwezi beach are from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and hosts Tanzania,” said Mlowezi. He also named players selected to form the national women teams as Jonia Jovin, who partner Evelyn Albert while Hellen Richard form second team with Beatrice Soka. Men teams according to Mlowezi has David Neeke, who plays professional volleyball at Mombasa Prisons of Kenya and his longtime partner Ford Edward, while second team will involve Shukuru Ally and Saidi Alhaj. Mlowezi stated that men teams have been pooled into seven groups that will kick off its qualifiers at Entebbe, Uganda from December 2-9th this year. Tanzania will have to do it against hosts Uganda, Kenya and Sudan in the group. The chairman stressed that all preparations are on top gear for them to hosts the event and at the same time, prepare the national teams to ensure they put strong challenge in the competitions. He said that both teams have already started preparations for the same and are doing really well so far, looking forward for the challenge. “Thanks God, all the players are in good health and continue with preparations as we gear up to fight and make our maiden appearance in Olympic Games,” he said. Mlowezi has also appealed for support from institutions both public and private as well as individuals to enable the teams have smooth preparations. “We also need support to hosts women’s qualifiers in Dar es Salaam. The door is open for those wishing to assist the association to come forward,” said Mlowezi.