IFAKARA Health Institute in collaboration with Nelson Mandela African Institution for Science and Technology in Arusha (NM-AIST) has established a Master’s degree programme in Public Health Research (MPHR) designed to fill gaps in the field by offering direct contact and support within a research setting. According to IHI Director of Science, Dr Fedros Okumu, the provision of such unique course in the country is more cost effective because the cost of sending one student to United Kingdom amounting to Pounds 30,000 million can be used to train 20 students in the country. “Our mission is to improve people’s health…this is why we conduct short courses on various health issues, mostly to practitioners,” he said. Speaking at IHI Training Centre, outside Bagamoyo town, the IHI Director of Training, Dr Kafuruki Shubis, said the institute is determined to produce world-class scientists in the next five years. The first batch of 20 students taking the Master’s programme in Public Health Research course at Nelson Mandela African Institution for Science and Technology-Arusha will graduate in January 2020. From 2000 to date, Dr Shubis said IHI has facilitated 26 researchers to acquire PhD, masters 4, diploma 20 and eight others awarded certificates. Dr Dickson Lwetoijera, said formulation of the course has been necessitated by the inadequacies in research. “The programme is designed to fill gaps in public health research by offering direct contact and support within a research setting,” he explained. The researcher added that unlike many other post-graduate programmes, all the teaching and learning of this program will be fully integrated within IHI extensive world class research platforms. The IHI website says “this is unique programme with a highly flexible curriculum that allows student to opt and graduate with specialization in any of its three majors.” IHI is a non-profit organisation registered in Tanzania which is headquartered in Dar es Salaam with branches in Bagamoyo and Ifakara–the Institute’s birth place. Since its establishment in 1956, according to its website, Ifakara Health Institute (IHI) is at the top of delivery of health research, training and services locally and internationally. The Institute has a mission of developing and sustaining health research capable of generating new knowledge and relevant information for public health policy and action. NM-AIST, which is partners with IHI to provide the research based Public Health course, is a fully-fledged university established under the Tanzania Universities Act No. 7 of 2005 and registered by TCU with Reg. No. 028 whereby former Tanzania President granted the academic institution a charter in 2013.