SPECIAL Double Troika meeting of ministers for Foreign Affairs and National Defence of Southern African Development Community (SADC) called to discuss political and security situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has convened in Dar es Salaam. The meeting which takes place today will review and assess the political situation in the DRC following the recently held elections. Speaking at the opening of the meeting, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi said that the purpose of the emergency meeting was strategically to consolidate peace in DR Congo and end conflict which threatens the well-being of the country. Prof Kabudi  noted that the meeting will help SADC countries with the defence and security forces in the DRC namely Tanzania, Malawi and South Africa to strengthen peace and make evaluation on measures to end the war and conflicts that frequently arise in the country. “This meeting today is the political, defence and security Troika where through this session we believe that we will evaluate the situation of the security in DRC and agree what action to take,” said Prof Kabudi. In another development, Professor Kabudi added that within this year peace, security and democracy have been maintained in SADC member countries, thanks to some member states conducting democratic elections peacefully, citing Mozambique and Botswana. Furthermore, Prof Kabudi said Tanzania and other SADC member countries still lead a crusade to have the international community lifting sanctions on Zimbabwe. The sanctions, imposed over alleged human-rights abuses during the reign of former President Robert Mugabe who was removed from power in 2017, are still in place despite a democratic change of leadership. The European Union imposed the sanctions on Zimbabwe in 2002, citing issues like harassment of independent media and intimidation of political opponents. The sanctions included an international arms embargo, wide-ranging assets freeze and travel ban on Mugabe-era government officials to EU countries. Initially, SADC Executive Secretary Dr Stergomena Tax said that she is hopeful the meeting will evaluate and make short and long-term recommendations about the security, peace and political situation in DRC to ensure the region is safe and peaceful. She added that peace and security is one of the most important tools in economic development for African countries.