MINORS’ rightful age to test for HIV without parental consent dominated debate in the National Assembly on Tuesday as lawmakers deliberated the amendments of 11 legislations. But, the house eventually passed the laws. Through the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Number 7 Act, 2019, tabled by the Attorney General (AG), Professor Adelardus Kilangi, the government, among others, proposed reducing the allowable age for testing from 18 to 15. The opposition through its Shadow Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs Salome Makamba (Special Seats—CHADEMA) objected to the government proposals, recommending 12 years as the legal age for minors to test on their own. Proponents of the under 15 were of a view that infection rates among the age group was on the rise and likely to impede the 90-90-90 campaign. In 2014, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and partners launched the 90–90–90 targets—to diagnose 90 per cent of all HIV-positive persons, provide antiretroviral therapy (ART) to 90 per cent of the diagnosed and achieve viral suppression for 90 per cent of the treated. Amendments of the HIV and AIDS Prevention and Control Act, 2019, allows children at 15 to undergo voluntary testing unlike the current situation where children under 18 years are not allowed to test without the consent of their parents or guardians. However, the opposition argued for reduction of the age to 12 years, saying there are cases of children at that age group who engage in sexual intercourse, making it necessary to know their HIV status. Contributing to the amendments, Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu stressed that 15 is the rightful age for children to test independently. She cited the Tanzania Demographic and Health Survey (TDHS) which showed that children start engaging in sexual intercourse at 15. “Children at 12 years are still too young to test for HIV. Available statistics indicate that prevalence of HIV/AIDS for children below 14 years is only 0.4 per cent and most of the cases are those who were infected by their mothers at delivery,” she explained. The minister was optimistic that by reducing the age to 15, Tanzania will ably increase the percentage of testing among people from the current 62. Those supporting the government proposed age bracket included Specials Seats MPs Amina Mollel (CCM), Marium Kisangi (CCM) and Emmanuel Mwakasaka (Tabora Urban-CCM). Besides Ms Makamba, MPs who opposed the age bracket are Special Seats MP Susan Lyimo (CHADEMA) and Malindi MP Ali Salehe (CUF). “There is nothing wrong for 12-year old children to test for HIV because our aim is to ensure all the infected know their status,” Ms Lyimo argued.