IN my last column on Wednesday this week, I praised Kilimanjaro Queens for what they had done not this year when they lost in the final against their Kenyan counterparts, Harambee Starlets, but for what they have done in the past three years during which they dominated the region in women soccer. Today, I would like to share with my readers two things, one, what is often hyped by politicians about patriotism (uzalendo) and how to build such a treasure. Of course, one of the ways of building uzalendo is through education and this need to be done constantly from kindergarten to university level. However, nothing helps in building uzalendo more than sports, and in particular, through constant winning of a country in various sports disciplines. That’s why developed nations in the world spent fortunes in building sports infrastructure which range from Olympic size swimming pools to stadia complex and from basketball courts to lawn tennis courts. You name any sports infrastructure under the sun and they have not one, but in untold galore. South Africa, which had its first democratic elections in April 1994 (in which the author of this column took part as a United Nations Observer) that would allow the election of a president from the black majority; had sports infrastructure in galore. In fact, the number of sports infrastructure that South Africa has can only be compared to developed countries all of which are outside Africa. That explains why immediately after the abolition of the racist apartheid policy, South Africa came out firing in all cylinders as far as international sports is concerned. Indeed, one year after the election of President Nelson Mandela, in 1995 South Africa won the Rugby World Cup which was played in South Africa. And in 1996, South Africa won two important continental trophies, namely, the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), when the tournament was hosted in South Africa in January 1996 and at the end of the same year, Orlando Pirates lifted the Champions League. In the same year, during the Olympic Games, South Africa won gold medals in swimming and athletics. That was not the end of the country’s winning ways in continental and international sports competitions. In 2007, they won the second Rugby World Cup and this year they did the same thing after beating England in the Rugby World Cup hosted by Japan. Two years ago, Mamelodi Sundowns, better known as the Brazilians, won the Champions League, hence becoming the second South African club, after Orlando Pirates, to win the Champions League. Though continued victories won by their national rugby team, the Springbok which is better known as South Africans a MABOKOBOKO, Bafana Bafana and the two clubs, Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates, it has been possible for the very much tortured nation (ravaged through many years of apartheid) to at least sit up and consider themselves as one nation. It’s normal, during South Africa’s packed stadia to see hundreds of thousands of sports fans waving South African flags in and outside those well-built stadia. One wonders what would have happened in that country had the South Africans been starved of sports victories. But South Africans have had such sports victories because they have many and all kind of sports infrastructure and throughout the country. This is what Tanzania need to start working on. Secondly, our armed forces need to do what Kenya has been doing since it attained its independence in 1962, namely, targeting youths who are heavily engaged in sports during their recruitment. From 1970s to date, Kenya has dominated boxing and athletics through sports men and women most of which are also members of the Kenya armed forces. For instance, from 1970 to 1980, Kenya dominated boxing through Prison officers some of whom went on to win Commonwealth and Olympic Games medals. Internationally, Kenya dominated athletics through its army and police. We can recall how Kipchoge Keino, a Kenyan police officer, dominated the 1,500m both in Africa and during Commonwealth and Olympic Games before his dominance was cut off by Tanzania’s Filbert Bayi, also from the TPDF during the All Africa Games in Lagos, Nigeria in 1973. For a while, Tanzania appeared to have picked a leaf from Kenya following the emergence of Juma Ikangaa (who has since retired as a Colonel). Ikangaa would go on to win a Commonwealth gold medal in marathon and a string of other victories that include the New York marathon, twice, Fukuoka marathon and over a dozen other races. Now if we want Tanzania to get back to those, good old years in sports, hence resuscitate our UZALENDO, let the armed forces take a lead by getting hold of youth who are doing well in athletics and other sports discipline. After all, we have experts who have already been there, in the name of Ikangaas and others. Get them as consultants. After all Tanzania has the same youths who are found in Kenya and are good in athletics. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/ author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk