REGIONAL diplomatic corps now want East African Community (EAC) partner states to demonstrate political will in dealing with issues that hinder the growth of intra-trade. The envoys, representing their countries in Tanzania, observed yesterday that political will was crucial in removing obstacles that impede free trade among partner states. The ambassadors also called on EAC countries to review legal and regulatory frameworks that proved to be an Achilles heel to intratrade. “As diplomats, we need to push and advocate for political will among our countries and help identify the laws that are hindering free trade in the region,” explained Kenya’s High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Dan Kazungu, at a consultative dialogue on economic diplomacy as a tool for alternative trade dispute mechanisms towards enhanced intra-EAC trade and investment. The envoy challenged fellow diplomats to ‘walk the talk’, and breathe a new fresh lease of life into the ‘One People, One Destiny’ slogan by addressing the issues that continue to hamper the growth of trade in the region. “The European Union views us as their ideal model, we, therefore, have responsibilities beyond the countries that we are all representing and become proud East Africans,” he said. According to the East African Business Council (EABC), EAC intra-trade stands at 12 per cent. This was far from the 78 per cent achieved by the European Union (EU) and the 48 per cent registered by the Southern African Development Community (SADC). “Where are we getting it all wrong as a regional economic bloc, the figures as just pathetic,” he added. Mr Kazungu further underscored the importance of resolving Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) that he cited as a major hindrance to Intra-EAC trade. He challenged the Secretariat to turn the region into a single customs territory by the first quarter of 2020. According to the envoy, Kenya and Tanzania had a total of 3 7 barriers between them, with 25 successfully eliminated. Sharing similar sentiments, Rwanda ambassador to Tanzania, Major General Charles Karamba described economic diplomacy as a crucial tool in promoting Intra- trade among EAC countries. On his part, Uganda’s High Commissioner to Tanzania Mr Richard Kabonero challenged the EABC to have a special seat in Heads of State Summits in setting the agenda as far as the growth of Intra trade in the region. “As a region, we are facing strong headwinds that require us to make bold decisions in cushioning and facilitating intra trade,” offered the diplomat. Earlier on, while welcoming the diplomats to the dialogue, EABC Executive Director, Mr Peter Mathuki, said the apex body of business associations of the Private Sector and Corporates from the six East African countries will continue to engage the diplomats periodically with a view of enhancing intra-trade growth.