Chemist Laboratory Agency (GCLA) has been told to ensure they secure ISO accreditations soon, and improve quality and efficiency of services they offer. The remarks were made recently by the Deputy Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, while visiting GCLA offices in Dar es Salaam. He further said that he wants the institution that is under his department to acquire the international standard with quality management in system and for its laboratories. “Achieving this will generate more respect within and outside the country,” he added, while tasking the Chief Chemist to set a roadmap on how the institution would strategise to realise the accreditations, and hand him a copy. Expounding, Dr Ndugulile noted that to attain the goal, there was a need for the entire staff to change the way they operate, saying: “There are small things I have realised in my inspection tour that you have failed in the laboratories. “Things like Temperature Charts, Thermometers, and Standard Operation Charts (SOPs) were missing, and these are few and trivial, yet contain important details, which are essential and this shows lack of attentiveness.” In implementation strategy, he gave them a week that would see the gaps addressed especially on the temperature chart, thermometers, and standard operation procedures (SOPs) put in place, saying: “One day I will pay you an impromptu visit to see if my instructions are followed. Do not take it business as usual; rather work according to our ethical code of conduct and procedure in the profession.” His list of challenges included quality controls, which do not require any money to address, but neglected. “In the two hours of my visit, I have discovered a few mishaps, which I want every manager in a Department to address, and identify shortcomings and must be rectified,” directed the Deputy Minister. In a related development, Dr Ndugulile noted that DNA has revolutionised a lot and now a business in the black market, saying: “It is important we strengthen the security of DNA data. We should ensure that all DNA samples are protected and not used against the assigned purpose.” Elaborating, the Deputy Minister said that with the sensitivity of the Laboratories and investment injected in them, it was important to ensure that they offer quality services.” “All of you are professionals in this laboratory that has its own set of formalities… from the time a sample is collected to when a result is reached at, the entire chain should be properly managed,” he added. Dr Ndugulile pointed out the institution was working as a government’s GCLA that manages laboratory analysis, Forensic Sciences exhibits, and agricultural and industrial produce to ascertain safety and quality. Its other work includes paternity or sex identification, environmental and occupational health for the protection of health and the environment.