FROM November 5 to 10, the 2nd China International Import Expo (CIIE) , the world’s first expo with the theme to facilitate importation, will take place in Shanghai. A total of 64 countries including Tanzania and three international organizations will participate in the country exhibitions. Over 3,000 exhibitors and 400,000 purchasers have signed up for the exhibition. More than 200 supporting and facilitating activities will be held. In the coming week, China will welcome guests from all over the world and the world’s attention will focus on Shanghai and China again. CIIE further opens up China’s market to the world. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China. Over the past 70 years, China’s foreign trade volume has risen from 1.1 billion US dollars to 4.6 trillion US dollars. The retail sales of consumer goods have increased from less than 30 billion RMB to nearly 40 trillion RMB (about 5.4 trillion US dollars). China has become the world’s largest trading country and the second largest consumer market. The glorious development of China in the past 70 years is also the process in which China actively integrated itself into the global economy, continuously deepened reform and opened up wider to the world. As President Xi Jinping stressed, China’s economic growth in the past has been achieved with a commitment to openingup, and in the same vein, high-quality development of China’s economy in the future can only be guaranteed with greater openness. Hosting CIIE is a significant decision for China to push forward a new round of high-level opening-up, and an important measure to actively open China’s market to the world. The 2nd CIIE will witness that China’s door is opening wider and wider. CIIE injects fresh impetus into the global economy. China’s initiative to hold the CIIE and expand import is not a choice of expediency. It is a future-oriented step taken to embrace the world and promote common development. China has become the most powerful engine of world economic growth for 13 years in a row since 2006. In the next 15 years, China’s import of goods and services are expected to exceed 30 trillion US dollars and 10 trillion US dollars respectively. China has a huge market potential, and is willing to share the benefits of its rapid growth with all countries in the world. China would like to work together with the international community to develop the CIIE into an open and cooperative platform for countries around the world to strengthen cooperation and exchanges and conduct international trade, and make greater contributions to the better development of global trade and world economy. CIIE provides a new driving force for economic globalization. A single flower does not make a spring. Holding CIIE is not China’s solo show, but rather a chorus involving countries from around the world. It not only showcases the first-class products, technologies and services from developed countries, but also sets up a platform for other developing countries, especially the least developed countries, to introduce their high-quality and distinctive products to China and better enter the international market. Among the 64 country exhibition participants, most of them are the developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. In response to the resurgence of unilateralism and protectionism, China is taking a series of major steps of opening-up, including CIIE, to further promote the openness of the world, and provide new momentum for economic globalization. China will work together with all the participating countries and international organizations to maintain the free trade and multilateral trading systems, and advance the open world economy. CIIE is a new opportunity for China and Tanzania to strengthen practical cooperation. Opening-up has profoundly changed China. At the same time, opening China has made a great difference to the world and provided more opportunities for the world and China- Tanzania bilateral cooperation. Hon. Innocent Bashungwa, Minister for Industry and Trade of Tanzania, will lead a Tanzanian delegation to attend the 2nd CIIE in the coming days. When Tanzania participated in the first CIIE in November 2018, tanzanite, unique in the world, was favored by Chinese consumers. The theme of Tanzanian Country Exhibition in the 2nd CIIE is “Tanzania, unforgettable”. Tanzania will showcase its high-quality and distinctive products, including cashew, coffee, sisal, tea, sesame and wooden work, demonstrate its continuous optimized business environment and its rich and unique tourism resources. It will definitely deepen the “Tanzanian impression” of Chinese consumers, help Tanzanian companies expand its Chinese Market, and enhance the “Tanzanian element” of the Chinese Market. China and Tanzania enjoy a long-standing friendship. The economic and trade cooperation between China and Tanzania has grown rapidly. China has been the largest trading partner of Tanzania for three consecutive years and is the largest source country of investment in Tanzania. We appreciate Tanzania actively participates in the Belt and Road Initiative, CIIE, the First China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo and the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019, Beijing, China. China is willing to facilitate Tanzanian qualified and featured products export to China and the international market through CIIE and other trading platforms, further expand the import scale from Tanzania, deepen our bilateral cooperation in trade, investment and tourism, and support Tanzania to achieve the goal of industrialization and middle- income country. I hope and believe that Tanzanian Country Exhibition in the 2nd CIIE will achieve a great success.