MOBILE banking has become an important instrument in promoting saving culture and financial inclusion as the penetration of banking services in the country remains below 20 per cent of the population. Global statistics from the state of the industry report on mobile financial services show that over two billion people remain unbanked, without access to safe, secure and affordable financial services. To enhance banking services penetration, NMB Bank recently rebranded its mobile platform to ‘NMB Mkononi’ replacing NMB Mobile and NMB KLiK App aimed at enhancing accessibility and convenience of financial services. Mobile banking enable smallholder farmers and livestock keepers to save small amounts of money, receive payments promptly in times of need and pay for agricultural goods via their mobile phone services thus replacing costly traditional transfer services and the need to travel long distances to collect funds. The bank decided to rename its mobile platform so as to ensure that all Tanzanians, from all walks of life can resonate with the mobile banking services and be able to access NMB’s banking services easily in the palm of their hands. Speaking at the launch at NMB Head Office, NMB Bank’s Chief Retail Banking – Filbert Mponzi said the bank has enhanced some features in its mobile platform as part of improving customers’ experience. The usage of new technologies and innovation has been the main source of proposed solutions in addressing gaps in bank account ownership between demographic groups. Findings from FinScope Tanzania indicate that one of the main drivers of access to financial services in Tanzania has been the take-up of digital financial services which require mobile phone ownership where 43 per cent of Tanzanians own mobile phones. NMB Bank is optimistic on increasing the number of customers from the current 3.5 million, through self-account opening on mobile phones and reaching the unbanked population. Mr Filbert said “With NMB Mkononi, anyone can open an account instantly through a feature or smart phone. They will be able to transfer money to mobile network operators (MNO’s) up to 2m/-, transfer money from NMB account to other banks, pay bills for free, withdraw cash without an ATM card, and make payment of goods and services at Mastercard Q R and Visa on mobile payment points.” Customers can also be able to effect payment of different taxes through the Government electronic payment system where taxes and fees like customs duty, domestic revenue collection, Tamisemi, BRELA, Tanesco, TRA, police fines, digital passport fees (immigration) water utilities as well as TPA through its USSD (*150* 66# ) and NMB Mkononi App. The state of the industry report on mobile financial services, a typical active mobile money customer makes more than 11 transactions a month on average and currently in some areas has diversified usage patterns in paying bills. The re-launch of this innovative service revitalizes NMB’s customer- centric approach to our services, allowing them to have the convenience of accessing banking services anytime, anywhere. Transparent and efficient mobile money services have significantly improved the financial lives and livelihoods of the unbanked and underserved. Industry research and analysis provide concrete evidence of these positive impacts from being better able to weather financial shocks or sending money home to family more securely, to spending less time travelling to a bank or queuing to pay bills. NMB Bank is the only bank in the market that allows customers and non-customers to send money from NMB account to other banks without visiting branches. “This rebrand will elevate NMB’s focus on the ability to provide a strong customer experience and financial services offering to well serve existing customers as part of celebrating Customer Service Week – Magic Lives Here! Our ability to provide strong customer experience while exhibiting unique brand values and products is a key differentiator in the market,” said Mr Mponzi. According to analysts, the increased access to financial services in the country should be reflected in the decreased poverty level otherwise the good statistics will have no use. Better access to mobile banking fuels economic growth by raising national income through increased savings and investments for households and small and medium enterprises, injecting formal savings into the system, diversifying the capital base, and providing stability during downturns. At the economic level, mobile money has helped governments to increase transparency and efficiency, contributed to greater agricultural productivity and entrepreneurial performance, helped to formalize the informal economy as well as contributing to a stronger banking sector.