THE headline inflation in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries rose to an average of 44.7 percent in the quarter ending September from 13.6 percent and 5.8 percent in the previous quarter and corresponding quarter of 2018. The Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Economic Bulletin for the quarter ending September shows that the highest inflation was in Zimbabwe at 519 percent, mainly due to rise in price of food. With exception of Angola, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia and South Africa, the SADC countries experienced increases in inflation. In Tanzania, Seychelles, and Malawi inflation rose, albeit slightly, due to food prices. In Mauritius, apart from food, the increase was due to a rise cost of hotels, restaurants and nonalcoholic beverages. Inflation eased in Mozambique on account of a decline in the cost of housing and utilities. The inflation rates in East African Community (EAC), countries were low and below the convergence criteria of not more than 8.0 percent. Specifically, annual inflation averaged 1.7 percent during the quarter ending September compared with 2.1 percent in the preceding quarter and 2.0 percent in the similar quarter of 2018. However, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), report shows that the annual inflation rates for the EAC countries for the month of October went up compared to the previous period. The annual inflation rate in Kenya increased to 4.95 per cent from 3.83 per cent recorded in September while in Uganda, the annual headline inflation rate increased to 2.5 per cent from 1.9percent recorded in September. The Tanzania’s annual headline inflation rate for the month under review slightly increased to 3.6per cent from 3.4per cent recorded in September 2019. The National Consumer Price Index (NCPI) measures the change over time in the cost of a fixed basket of goods and services that are purchased by a representative sample of households in Tanzania. A basket includes a list of 278 goods and services of which 97 are Food and Non- Alcoholic Beverages and 181 are Non-Food items that are being priced on a monthly basis. Food and Non-Alcoholic Beverages Inflation Rate for the month of October, 2019 increased to 5.1 percent from 4.0 percent recorded in September, 2019.