MAINLAND side Kilimanjaro Queens became the first team to cruise into the semifinals of the 2019 CECAFA Women Championship, after a 4-0 win over Burundi at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Kilimanjaro Queens striker Donisia Minja scored a brace, while skipper Asha Rashid and Mwanahamisi Omary scored a goal apiece to give the hosts a deserved win at a packed venue, where they fully enjoyed full backing from home fans. As it stands, Kilimanjaro Queens have netted 13 goals in two matches without conceding a single goal to continue their perfect run in the competition while still topping the group A ladder with six points. It was again a remarkable performance from the hosts, who showed composure and good passing skills which gave no room for the visitors to dominate the thrilling encounter. However, as the Kilimanjaro Queens celebrate, their sisters Zanzibar Queens have officially been eliminated after losing both of their games as they went down 5-0 in their opening clash against Burundi, before succumbing to another 5-0 slump from South Sudan in an early match played yesterday. Kilimanjaro Queens will therefore face Zanzibar Queens in their last match of the group stage which will be a mere formality fixture. However, Kilimanjaro Queens will definitely be eager to post another victory and to hit nine points. The other match in group A will see Burundi entertaining South Sudan with each of them having three points from two matches. The action in group B continues today whereby Uganda, which humiliated Djibouti 13-0 in their opening match take on Kenya, which pounded Ethiopia 2-0 on Sunday. Ethiopia and Djibouti will face off in another battle of the same group. It was a solid start for Uganda women national football team, the Crested Cranes in the tournament with a convincing win against minnows Djibouti. The Crested Cranes had a field day scoring 13 goals with striker Juliet Nalukenge netting five goals. The U17 National team skipper who has had good form this year took no time to cement her name on the senior team and was a thorn in the flesh for Djibouti. It should be noted that she scored 18 goals at the COSAFA Championship and already has three goals in two games in the FUFA Women Super League with Kawempe Muslim Ladies. Hasifa Nassuna and Fazila Ikwaput scored a hat trick each while Fauzia Najjemba and Amina Nababi who was making her debut also got onto the score sheet.