THE government has warned on rising threat of antimicrobial resistance, advising the public to take preventive measures against the problem which is detrimental to human and animal health, productivity and prosperity. According to experts, antimicrobial resistance can be prevented if various initiatives are put in place, such as creating public awareness that will help people to take preventive measures such as taking the right dose of antibiotics, hand washing to prevent infections spreading, proper disposal of medicines, safe sex and vaccination. The World Bank report of 2017 indicated that a sum of nine billion US dollars (equivalent to over 20trl/-) is projected to cost developing countries, including Tanzania, in curbing AMR. Come 2050, it is estimated that AMR would exert a drop on the global economy by 3.8 per cent and a loss of 3.4 trillion US dollars is to be incurred for the same in the year 2030. Ministry for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children official Dr Elias Kwesi, said in Dar es Salaam on Friday while launching the World Antibiotic Awareness Week countrywide to run from Nov 18 to 24, this year that there was a need for counter measures to fight the problem. “The 2017 World Bank report has identified a death toll of over 700,000 people annually due to AMR; with such magnitude, if necessary measures are not taken by 2050, over 10 million are anticipated to die each year,” said Mr Kwesi who was representing the role of the sector minister. The director also disclosed that AMR is placing Tanzania at a very high risk of losing its workforce due to the high death toll related to chronic diseases which have posed to be drug resistant. He, however, noted that increased poverty due to long term illness, use of costly medicines, a high animal death toll as well as reduced productivity are among factors costing the government millions of money which could have been spent on development purposes. He urged patients and physicians to exercise their roles in dispensing antibiotics with appropriate prescription only when the need arose. He further reminded the public on the importance of taking preventive measures by embarking on safe sexual intercourse, the culture of washing hands and through vaccination. These would reduce excessive use of antibiotics, both in human health systems and in livestock and agriculture in the country. A Representative from the World Health Organisation (WHO), Dr Grace Saguti, said this year’s theme was “Handle antibiotics with care” which sends a key message to the public to identify that the future of antibiotics depends on everyone, while highlighting prevention interventions as crucial. “With prevention we can overcome diseases and the use of antibiotics...we can all help by seeking advice from health professionals before the use of antibiotics,” noted Dr Saguti. Dr Saguti, who was representing the WHO country representative Dr Tigest Ketsela, also called upon health facilities to strive to control the spread of infections by making use of the best possible hygiene and sanitation measures. She cited other sectors in which antibiotics are misused as including livestock keeping, and aquaculture threatening sustainable food production, posing a potential risk. Antimicrobial Resistance Focal Person in the Ministry of Health Community Development Gender, Elderly and Children Ms Siana Mapunjo said that rising antimicrobial resistance was caused mainly by use of antimicrobials in humans, other animals and in agriculture “In animals antimicrobials are used as growth promoter... over-use and misuse of antibiotics in animals and humans is contributing to the rising threat of antibiotic resistance,” she said. Ms Mapunjo observed that according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) every year, around 700,000 people die due to antimicrobial drug resistance to bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. She warned that “without counter measures, experts estimate that by 2050, the annual death toll could increase to 10 million.” She identified commonly used antibiotics in the country as including Amoxicillin 19 percent, Ciprofloxacin (14pc), Doxycycline (9pc), Tetracycline (8pc) and eight per cent for Cephalexin. The rest are Sulfamethoxazole (6pc), Erythromycin (4pc), Metronidazole (2.7pc), and 2.5 per cent Gentamycin. Ms Mapunjo, said World Antibiotic Awareness Week aims to increase awareness of global antibiotic resistance , encourage best practices among the general public, health workers, and policy makers to avoid the further emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance. The theme for this year “The future of antibiotics depends on all of us”.