SHORTAGE of funds has been cited as among reasons for limited enrollment of Form Six leavers for the short term three-moth military training and vocational skills at the National Service, commonly known as Jeshi la Kujenga Taifa (JKT), camps. That was stated by the Minister for Defense and National Service, Dr Hussein Mwinyi in the National Assembly  when responding to a basic question by Mtwara Rural MP, Ms Hawa Ghasia (CCM), who had decried limited recruitment of trainees. Dr Mwinyi was however quick to add that enrollment of trainees at JKT camps did not necessarily guarantee jobs opportunities in armed forces or any other government institutions upon completion. "JKT enrolls about 20,000 trainees each year; this is a very big number and so not all of them can be employed in the army or other government institutions. We treat them as a reserve force and since we provide them with skills, we hope they can engage in self-employment," he explained. Each year, JKT enrolls Form Six leavers in accordance with the law for three months military training before the students are admitted to institutions of higher learning for further studies. Dr Mwinyi mentioned two factors which could have enabled the National Service to admit more trainees for its courses, namely availability of financial resources on one hand and flexibility of admissions in higher learning institutions. "All universities admit students from October and this gives us limited window, if they had different admission windows and if JKT had enough funds then we could enroll more trainees," the minister told the august House. Minister Mwinyi also cited shortage and dilapidated infrastructure at JKT camps as among other factors for limited enrollment of trainees, noting however that JKT had used its development funds to revamp its camps at Makuyuni, Mpwapwa, Luwa, Milundikwa and Itaka. According to Dr Mwinyi, training at JKT camps for the Form Six leavers is funded by money availed by the Treasury as well as internal revenues generated by development projects undertaken by the National Service.