COUNTRYWIDE special operations have saved members of public in 20 regions from consuming fake and substandard medicines and medical devices which posed health threats. The operations by the Tanzania Medicines and Medical Devices Authority (TMDA), Tanzania Veterinary Laboratory Agency (TVLA), Tanzania Pharmacy Council, the police force and others, have cleaned up the market. The crackdown involved inspection of 209 pharmacies, 263 essential drugs shops, 27 health centres, 21 medical devices shops and 38 centres of herbal and alternative medicines. Making report to the public yesterday, TMDA Acting Director General Akida Khea said the exercise, which was conducted last September, netted fake and unregistered drugs with names of seven types of popular brands. The unscrupulous manufacturers intentionally used names of the popular brands in the market on expenses of uninformed members of the public. The fake medicines branded themselves as Sonaderm Cream 10gm (clobetasol proprionate, miconazole, nitrate and gentamicin sulphate), gentrisone cream (Betamethasone proprionate, clotrimazole gentamycin sulfate), Sulphadoxine pyrimethamine and ALPRIM (sulfamethoxazole 400mg trimethoprim 80mg tablets), Homidium chloride, cold cap and TEMEVAC strain 1&2. Licenced manufacturers of the brands confirmed to the TMDA they did not produce the mentioned counterfeit and unregistered medicines but dishonest people used names of the brands. “The licenced manufacturers are our main informers after they notice circulation of fake drugs with names of their brands. We also obtain information through our systems set in East African Community (EAC),” Mr Khea told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday. During the operations, the taskforce managed to impound unregistered medicines worth 31.9m/- and found government- purchased drugs worth 481,600/- in private pharmacies and drugs shops. He said the operation also seized medical devices worth 640,000/-, including surgic blades and helicobacter pylori rapid test. The team identified and impounded unregistered medical devices such as magnetic quantum analyser, quantum therspy analyzer and others. Following the operations, several measures have been taken, including removing the fake drugs from the market and filing 19 cases against the suspects. Superintendent of Police, Alekunda Urio, who works for Interpol department at the police headquarters, assured that the police would closely follow up on the matter to ensure that the suspects face legal measures.