THE annual growth rate of banks credit to agriculture rose by 68.5 per cent in the year ending September compared to 61.9 per cent of the previous month and negative growth of 9.7 per cent in the corresponding period 2018. According to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) monthly economic review for October agriculture sector credit increased at a faster rate, followed by building and construction and mining and personal. The composition of banks’ outstanding credit to agriculture activities grew by 9 percent compared to 8.7 percent in the previous month and 5.9 percent registered in the corresponding period last year. During the reference period, credit to the private sector expanded by 9.3 percent to the stock of about 15tri/-higher than 8.2 percent (about 13tri/-) registered in the corresponding period in September 2018. The strong credit growth to agriculture sector was attributed to accommodative monetary policy, as well as measures implemented to improve business environment. Agriculture contributes over 70 per cent of the rural household’s income, employs around 70 per cent of the country’s workforce and contributing about 26 per cent of the country’s GDP. Growth of the sector is around 4 percent per annum but there are crop sub-sectors with surprisingly large growth, where also export business in some cases is increasing rapidly. The Tanzania Agriculture Development Bank (TADB) pipeline under review sits at 56bn/-, supporting more than 10,795 smallholder farmers in 22 regions across namely Kagera, Katavi, Dodoma Mtwara, Arusha, Kigoma, Njombe, Iringa, Mwanza, Mara, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Lindi, Mbeya, Ruvuma, Songwe, Morogoro and Kilimanjaro. Coast, Singida, Manyara and Dar es Salaam regions engaged in 15 value chains. Although there are many issues still to be solved in the agricultural environment, the outlook is more than promising in many areas. The Maputo Declaration on Agriculture and Food Security in Africa advocates allocation of 10 per cent of the national budget to agriculture.