MAKAMBAKO district authority has invited investors to tap various investment opportunities as the whole area is now accessed by roads network, thanks to the 1.9bn/- worth infrastructure development by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The District Council Director, Mr Paul Malala said Wednesday that it is high time for investors to fully engage mostly in timber industries, horticulture, especially avocado production and other food and commercial-related crops due to the fact that almost all the areas in the council were accessible. Various OPEC projects in the Council have been implemented by the government through Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) for the period of five years from 2015. “Makambako is a strategic area which is connected to other areas of the region as well as neighbouring regions and countries. This is to say that all investors will be directly connected to both local and international markets, “he said. Commenting on other benefits of OPEC projects in the Council, Mr Malala said that the (projects) served in improving health sector as three new dispensaries had constructed and were expected to operate in the soonest to come. The Council has already requested the ministry of health to bring in the service providers so that the operations can take place for the two dispensaries whose construction activities were completely over. “We have also talked to the regional administration, to see the possibility of having temporary service providers from other health centres in the region, while waiting for the ministry’s response,” he said. Construction of the class rooms, hostels, teachers’ houses administration buildings and latrine pits in some of the Council’s secondary schools was also part of the 13.1bn/-OPEC projects, according to the Director. TASAF has been implementing over 300 OPEC development projects in Njombe region, worth over 13.1bn/-, said the Fund’s Communication Officer, Mr Estom Sanga. The projects are in areas of agriculture, livestock, road infrastructures, health, education and income generating activities, said Mr Sanga.