THE Tanzania Sports Writers Association (TASWA) will conduct a Special General Meeting in Dar es Salaam on December 20th this year. TASWA Secretary General, Amir Mhando said in Dar es Salaam that the meeting will provide a platform for members to discuss various issues related to the development of the association. “TASWA Executive Committee met this week to discuss various matters and decided that the special general meeting will be held on December 29th this year,” said Mhando. Mhando said that the aim of the meeting is to deliberate on various matter on TASWA Constitution. He said members will receive a report from the Constitutional Amendment Committee, which was formed by the National Sports Council (NSC). Apart from that the meeting will as well receive several recommendations from the outgoing TASWA Executive Committee. According to Mhando, members who are allowed to attend the meeting are all those who are in the association’s ledger from 2004, 2007, 2010 and 2014 as well as new members, who joined the association from 2015 to-date. He said all members who are in association’s ledger from 2004, 2007, 2010 and 2014 and wish to attend the meeting are required to register their names and respective media houses through the following contacts taswatz@yahoo.com or mgosius@yahoo.com. For new members, Mhando said registration process will be done through the following email: machagift@gmail.com and the deadline for all members to confirm their participation is December 10th this year. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Sports Writer Association (TASWA) announced that the new membership registration for the International Sports Press Association (AIPS) for the year 2020/21 has already begun and that individual TASWA members can register. Registration for AIPS is through http://www.aipsmedia.com and TASWA has urged its members to register for the membership so they could benefit from various opportunities, having access to various sports events globally and attending training programmes.