THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday released on bail former Chairman with Simba Sports Club, Evance Aveva and his Deputy Geoffrey Nyange, who are facing several fraud charges in the 300,000 US dollars (about 600m/-) trial. This followed the decision by Principal Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba to reject the objection that had been presented by the prosecution having decided to lodge an appeal against the dismissal of two money laundering charges they were previously charged with. The magistrate released the duo on conditions of having two reliable sureties each. Every surety, according to the magistrate, was required to sign bond of 30m/-. Aveva and Nyange have been in remand pending trial since their first arraignment in June 2017. They join their co-accused, Zacharia Hans Poppe, the then “Msimbazi Street” Club Registration Committee Chairman, who has been out in remand since he was charged jointly with the duo, but was not facing the un-bailable offences of money laundering. Delivering his ruling, Magistrate Simba said that the decision by the prosecution to appeal against the court’s decision to dismiss the money laundering counts does not invalidate such a ruling. He pointed that the court’s decision would be varied or otherwise after determination of the appeal in question. “The decision by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to appeal though his state lawyers does not prohibit the accused persons from being granted bail. Therefore, the objections of the prosecution to that effect are hereby overruled,” he declared. Immediately after delivery of the ruling, Principal State Attorney, Shadrack Kimaro and an officer with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) walked out of the court room and informed the court that they have not been satisfied with the decision and they would appeal to the High Court. The magistrate adjourned the trial to November 12, 2019 for mention pending the outcome of the DPP’s appeal.