EXIM Bank Tanzania on Tuesday opened a new branch at Mkwepu Street in Dar es Salaam in efforts to reach a larger market and bring services closer to the public. Presiding over the occasion as the guest of honour, Bank of Tanzania (BOT) Deputy Governor, Dr Bernard Kibesse on behalf of the Minister for Finance and Planning Dr Philip Mpango applauded the bank for extending the wing that now totals to 33rd countrywide. “Let me congratulate Exim Bank for extending the footprint. In a special way, let me also commend them for the successful acquisition of Tanzania’s subsidiary of Pakistan’s UBL Bank in its plan to spread and expand nationwide,” he added. However, the Deputy Governor called on the bank to intensify efforts to provide specialised and innovative services to small and medium-sized businesses, which have great impact on economic transformation in the country. In response, Exim Bank’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Jaffari Matundu said the new branch will help in strengthening their presence to compete with other financial institutions professionally and ease services provision to the city residents and business community. “We are excited to welcome UBL Bank’s customers, employees and communities to the Exim Bank family. This move will expand our presence to the larger market and add a team of talented bankers to Exim Bank pool,” said the CEO. Mr Matundu noted that Dar es Salaam is an important market for the bank specially the newly launched Mkwepu branch that is has modern technologies designed to assist its customers. “The innovative technology enables the bank’s customers to interact with the bank officials in a way that suits them, let alone the surroundings, which are comfortable and accessible for all,” he pointed out. Expounding, Mr Matundu noted that customers at the branch as well as other points would enjoy swift services according to the latest demand in the market. “We will always strive to make banking more accessible, flexible and convenient for our customers. And just like in any of our branches, Mkwepu branch will provide customers with the best possible services. With professional staff to consult and advise on bank products and services, customers will enjoy and convenient banking services,” added the CEO.