YOUNG Africans caretaker Coach Boniface Mkwasa said he will use today’s friendly match against Coastal Union at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to scale up his team before the Mainland Premier League resumes. The league has been paused to give chance to the national team, Taifa Stars which is engaged in international duties. Speaking on Friday after a morning training session at Uhuru Stadium, Mkwasa said despite taking charge of the team few weeks ago, he is satisfied with the way the players are grasping his lessons. “After we played against Ndanda and managed to win 1-0, the performance among players in the training programmes has been improving and we want to use the friendly match to get the real rhythm of the team,” he said. Moreover, Mkwasa revealed that some of the team’s players who were nursing injuries are back in the team a thing he said will add the strength to his side. “I will use the real squad on Sunday (tomorrow) because it will help us to find good chemistry of the team in an effort to do well in the league matches,” he said. He then disclosed that just one day of his tutelage before facing Ndanda, he worked a lot on the psychology aspect of players that is why he said they were able to pressure their opponents throughout the encounter. Asked which areas of his side he will need reinforcement during the upcoming transfer window, Mkwasa replied that he is at the helm of the team just as caretaker as such not the right time to decide that. “What I will do, is to recommend to the management on specific areas that requires upgrading for the appropriate action to be taken,” he said. Commenting on the progress of his striker David Molinga, who was tasked to cut off weight by the former coach Mwinyi Zahera, Mkwasa said he is taking training sessions seriously and has not seen any problem in him. “Players differ in performance such that you can have a player who seems to be overweight but tactically good on the pitch. I do not judge on the looks of players but on how they perform on the field,” he said.