THE East African Community (EAC) Secretariat has commended the newly crafted conservation and management programme as crucial for curbing poaching and wildlife trafficking. Speaking during the launch of the EAC-USAID programme for Conservation and Management of the Natural Capital Posted in Environment and Natural Resources at the weekend, EAC Deputy Secretary-General in charge of Productive and Social Sectors Christophe Bazivamo said the three-year programme would enhance collaborative management and conservation of transboundary natural resources in the region, increase perceived value of wildlife and reduce poaching and wildlife trafficking. “This sustained support will go a long way to strengthen national and regional efforts in the conservation and management of East Africa’s rich biodiversity and natural resources,” explained Mr Bazivamo. The project, which runs from June this year to June 2022, has been allocated a hefty 5.2bn/- budget ($2.3m/-). It has a budget component of approximately $2.3m from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in Kenya and will be led by the EAC Secretariat with technical and analytical support from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and Environment Incentives. It will be implemented through a new working approach requiring the active involvement of host communities of protected natural biodiversity species areas. In East Africa, biodiversity- rich areas are critical to the region’s nature-based tourism, which contributes 7.5-10 per cent of East Africa’s GDP. At local level, rural communities across the region depend on wildlife and wildlife habitats for their livelihoods. Iconic wildlife, and the landscapes on which it roams, is of a significant value. In response to rapid economic development and population growth, East Africa’s infrastructure is said to be expanding. This expansion is putting pressure on East Africa’s “natural capital” - resources that are essential for socioeconomic growth and development of East African countries and people. The new Conservation and Management of Natural Capital Programme will help strengthen the EAC’s capacity to protect this vital resource. It is also an initiative that seeks to improve the collaborative management and conservation of transboundary natural resources, reduce poaching and wildlife trafficking and increase the perceived value of wildlife. Chapters 19 and 20 of the Treaty for the EAC’s establishment requires partner states to make concerted effort to foster cooperation in the joint and efficient management and sustainable utilisation of natural resources within the community for their mutual benefits. Partner states also recognise that conserving natural capital across boundaries requires collaboration and harmonisation of national and regional plans and policies to support trans-boundary management