NATIONAL Women’s team Kilimanjaro Queens players believes that they have desired quality to defend their CECAFA Women Championship, as they host the competition from this Saturday at Azam Complex Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The regional tournament which brings together the senior women’s national team will wind up on November 25th this year at the same venue. The Queens would like to defend the regional title for third time in a row and this time around, wants to achieve that using the home ground advantage. It will be the battle for eight teams which have been categorised in two groups of four teams each, with the hosts pooled in group A together with Zanzibar, Burundi and South Sudan, whereas group B comprises of Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia and Djibouti. Two top teams in each group will earn a ticket to jump into the semifinals from where; The other two successful teams will face one another in the final. Kilimanjaro Queens under the tutelage of Bakari Shime is undergoing intensive drills before stepping onto the battlefield where real action will be displayed before seeing which side will have an upper hand. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues yesterday after a morning training session at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro Queens player, Stumai Abdallah said that they are progressing well with preparations. “The good thing is that we have the silverware and will not accept to let it go outside the country easily. Our number one priority is to win it three times in a row and that can be achieved only if we will have full backing from home fans,” she said. She added, “The competition will not be an easy ride for us bearing in mind that once you are a defending champion, each team which comes along wants to defeat you.” However, she insisted that they are making their homework well. “During the past edition, Kenya gave us troubles of all the teams we played against, I am wondering how this year they (Kenya) have prepared,” said she. Initially, the contest was scheduled to begin today but has been rescheduled to pave way for the national team which plays against Equatorial Guinea in 2021 Africa Cup of Nation (AFCON) qualifiers. Meanwhile, teams from Djibouti and Burundi have arrived in Dar es Salaam ahead of the 2019 Cecafa Senior Women’s Challenge Cup. Les Gazelles, Djibouti’s team under the watchful eyes of former French International Sarah M’barek arrived from Morocco where they have been training. Djibouti will open their Group B campaign with a game against Uganda’s Crested Cranes on November Sunday before they take on Kenya two days later. M’Barek’s team will face Ethiopia in their last Group B game on November 21st. Burundi’s team handled by Daniella Niyibimenya also arrived on Tuesday.