INTENSE fight against donor dependence and restoration of transport infrastructures are the common features of the third and fifth phase administrations, President John Magufuli said on Tuesday. President Magufuli, speaking at the launch of former President Benjamin Mkapa’s autobiography in Dar es Salaam, said he has been copying a lot of leadership skills from his third-phase counterpart. It was an historic day as Tanzanians for the first time ever witnessed one of their retired presidents unveiling a book that details his personal life and long journey to the presidency. During the four-hour event, many achievements that former leader recorded during his 10-year reign—1995 to 2005—were highlighted. Mr Mkapa scored higher in development of transport infrastructures, political arena and socialeconomic initiatives that aimed at boosting the national economy. President Magufuli underlined some of the successes, saying Mkapa’s administration registered remarkable feats at both macro and micro economies, enabling Tanzania to secure debt cancellation of three billion US dollar out of the total seven billion dollar debt. “Under his (Mkapa) leadership, Tanzania recorded many achievements, including debt relief from our big creditors,” said Dr Magufuli. Mr Mkapa worked hard to strengthen transport infrastructure, with the Mkapa Bridge that links the southern regions of Lindi and Mtwara to Coast and Dar es Salaam regions as one of the landmark projects. President Magufuli further credited his mentor with improved lives of people at individual level by coming up with various initiatives like the National Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction—MKUKUTA, Property and Business Formalisation Programme— MKURABITA and Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF). All the initiatives aimed at fighting poverty and donor dependence syndrome, which the ‘My Life, My Purpose’ book explains extensively. “Let me admit that chapters 11 and 12 that dwell on reforms, sustainable development and struggles against dependence syndrome are among the sections that have attracted me most,” said President Magufuli, adding: “I have special interest in these chapters because they talk about issues, which my administration is dealing with as well.” Dr Magufuli also cited reinforcement of revenues collection systems and proper management of natural resources to enable the country get rid of donor dependence. He challenged Uongozi Institute to look into the possibility of translating the book into Kiswahili to make readable by all Tanzanians. “I encourage other retired leaders to write their autobiographies… I appreciate the fact that former Presidents (Ali Hassan) Mwinyi and (Jakaya) Kikwete have theirs underway,” he said. The books on personal lives of former leaders will help the upcoming leaders to learn from them. Earlier, Mr Mkapa appreciated former Mozambique and Nigerian Presidents, Joaquim Chissano and Olusegun Obasanjo, respectively, whom he said persuaded him to write the book. “This book has given me an opportunity to explain through my experience over leadership and what I knew about the late Julius Nyerere whose thoughts remain alive, especially for those aspiring leadership positions,” he stated. He commended President Magufuli’s efforts to make the country economically independent. “True development is self development though this doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t accept aid…aid should come only to accelerate development that we have initiated using our own resources,” he said. Mr Mkapa explained that the book will help current and future leaders to grasp shortfalls and achievements during his leadership for informed future decision making. “I believe this book will help in telling the history of this country and encourage others to vie for leadership positions,” he argued. Uongozi Institute Chief Executive Officer Professor Joseph Semboja, explaining the institute executed project, said the writing started in 2016. “It took a long time because writing the book needs collection of many information and meeting many people,” Prof Semboja said, hinting that the project cost 230m/-. He said Mzee Mkapa has dedicated revenues from the book sales to the institute programmes to prepare good leaders for Africa. Since its establishment in 2010, the institute’s main mandate has been to strengthen leadership in Africa. The institute supports retired leaders to write their autobiographies to enable the young generation to learn from them instead of relying on experiences from retired leaders outside the continent.