THE government has directed the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) to supply sufficient foodstuff to communities hit by severe drought in attempt to cushion an alarming rise of food crop prices. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the rise in food prices was a threat to the country’s development and wants the agency to supply food to areas affected by climate change. Concerned with the upcoming farming season, the premier said the government had also directed extension officers to mobilise farmers to adopt modern farming techniques that would respond to changing climatic conditions. Winding up this year’s parliamentary sessions, the premier urged farmers to be apt and ensure they maintain food reserves. He cautioned communities against selling their entire food stocks, saying this would be disastrous in an event of food shortage. Mr Majaliwa however noted that food production in the country remained high at 16.4million tonnes as opposed to actual demand of 13.34million tonnes. “The rate of hunger has decreased to 8 per cent in 2018 up from 10 per cent in 2017,” he said. He told parliamentarians that the government was committed to improving all potential sectors to uplift human development. He explained that such efforts were now paying off with the level of poverty between 1991/91 and 2017/18 recording the highest decrease of 13 per cent. He said the government was also working on to ensure sufficient availability of agro inputs, especially fertiliser. The de mand for fertiliser is over 584,000 tonnes and the available inputs are 328709 tonnes. The parliament approved nine protocols, including the EAC Protocol on ICT, protocol on privileges and immunities of the EAC and the protocol on amending the Marrakesh establishing World Trade Organisation. He adjourned the Parliament to January 28, 2020. Earlier on Premier Majaliwa warned council directors across the country to avoid bureaucracy in releasing funds set aside for empowerment of youths, women and people with disabilities. He sounded the warning in Dar es Salaam on Friday at the official opening of this year’s Mwalimu Arts Festival which brought together artists from across the country and other stakeholders. He said that artists were part of the beneficiaries of the empowerment fund, thus executives should get rid of bureaucracy in approving their applications. Mr Majaliwa said that the government had put in place a proper system of empowering Small and Medium Entrepreneurs (SMEs) in the country such as establishment of various funds and encourage local financial institutions to provide loans at affordable interests rates. He said Parliament had also enacted a law to enforce the allocation of 10 per cent by every council in the country for empowerment of youth, women and people with disabilities. “In the past, most of the municipal, district and town executive directors were not setting aside the required 10 per cent but the Parliament has enacted the law to ensure that the fund is set aside for the intended groups,” he said. The PM said that all councils were capable of allocating the fund from their budget because they had several sources of revenue. He said council executives should allocate the required 10 per cent from their budget as required by the law- 4 per cent for youths, 4 per cent for women and 2 per cent for people with disabilities. Mr Majaliwa said that councils were required to allocate funds for every quarter of the year and disburse to the respective groups as required. He, however, said that the government was aware of the contribution of artists in the development of the country and pledged to work on challenges facing the group. For his part, Speaker of the National Assembly Mr Job Ndugai called upon the artists to use their platforms to demonstrate positive things being done by the fifth phase government. He said that President John Magufuli’s performance was built on the basis of the late father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who stressed selfreliance. Mr Ndugai said that the government was executing major projects using tax payers’ money such as Rufiji Hydroelectric Power, construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), roads and other infrastructure. “The president directed efforts to curb corruption, increase accountability and enabled the parliament to enact laws to protect the country’s natural resources,” he said.