AHEAD of the National Ecological Organic Agriculture conference scheduled to take place in Dodoma on 26th and 27th November, this year, recently the Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Tanzania, Mr Fred Kafeero, and the Ambassador of France to Tanzania, H.E Frédé ric Clavier, held a press conference with the sole aim of scaling up of agroecosystems for sustainability to achieve food security in the country. The conference comes two weeks after FAO here in Tanzania teamed up with the Tanzania Organic Agriculture Movement (TOAM) to conduct a training on ecological organic farming to over 20 journalists from across the country that was held in Moshi, Kilimanjaro. However, what does that mean at the background? The conference aims at engaging key policy makers and stakeholders, including the government at central and local levels, the parliament, development partners, the civil society, the private sector, academia and the media, to exhibit and exchange best cases on how Ecological Organic Agriculture (EOA) can ensure sustainable development through multi-dimensional impact. To achieve this objective, it was noted that the event will seek to link initiatives that support the scaling up of agro-ecosystems for increased productivity, in quantity and quality, while ensuring resilience and sustainability for achieving food security, poverty reduction and enhancing the green and resilient economy. Probed the conference will focus on three thematic areas of food security and safety in a sustainable production of safe food throughout the seasons through Ecological Organic Agriculture practices and technologies. Second, it would highlight livelihood improvement and industrialisation to improve the livelihoods of grassroots communities and contribute to the country’s industrialisation agenda. And lastly resilience to climate change and environmental conservation by making grassroots communities to become more resilient to climate change and extreme weather patterns, including prolonged drought periods and heavy rainfall, rising sea levels and cyclones. Important to note here is that the leading role played by FAO since 2014 in facilitating global and regional dialogues on agroecology would serve as a voluntary guide for policy makers, practitioners and stakeholders to plan, manage and evaluate agroecological transitions and that is what the country wants. There is therefore a drive to bring agroecology to scale and transform food and agricultural systems to achieve zero hunger and multiple other SDGs, Tanzania envisions in its goals. It is hoped that the meeting to be graced by the Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga would showcase opportunities and potential for production and trade in ecological organic products at domestic, regional and international level. It is hoped that the outcomes of the conference will put the country on the path of transforming food and agricultural systems that embrace the spirit of the 2030 agenda