WHIRLWIND of 'hire and fire' now is back again at the Mainland Premier League with coaches of Young Africans and KMC being its latest victims. Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC), Jackson Mayanja has been the latest victim of the coaches’ firing mania and there is a speculation that Mwinyi Zahera, who was sacked by Young Africans just four days before, might be taking his place. Ugandan national Mayanja has been fired just five months after taking the team from Etienne Ndayiragije, who is now tasked to train the national team, Taifa Stars. The KMC board Chairman and Kinondoni Municipal Mayor, Benjamin Sitta told reporters that they were forced to part ways with the Ugandan saying he failed to deliver particularly in the CAF Confederation Cup and the Premier League matches. Overall, according to Kinondoni Municipal Mayor, KMC, who ended superbly at the fourth place in the last season, have performed poorly this season. “We still thank Jackson Mayanja for his commitment at KMC despite the unsatisfactory results. We wish him luck in his future career,” said the Mayor. What seems to have angered the management of the club is 2-1 home loss to Kagera Sugar at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. KMC are place 16th and very close to the relegation zone having reaped eight points from eight matches. Mayanja joined KMC on June 26th to replace a Burundian Etienne Ndayiragije, who was crossed to Azam and later Taifa Stars. His immediate task was to lead the team in East Central African Club Championship (Kagame Cup) in Rwanda in July this year, but there the team didn’t perform well. He again failed to help his team in the CAF Confederation Cup after being eliminated in the Preliminary stage by AS Kigali. Previously Mayanja coached Simba SC, Kagera Sugar, and Coastal Union of Tanga. The sacking of Mayanja came four days after Young Africans cut ties with head coach Mwinyi Zahera and entire technical staff following their loss to Egyptian side Pyramids in the Playoff stage of the Total CAF Confederation Cup last week. Yanga were eliminated 5-1 on aggregate, losing 2-1 at home and 3-0 away last Sunday, adding to the misery of Zahera who has guided the team to three games in their last ten games. Chairperson of Yanga, Mshindo Msolla, said the decision was taken after a meeting with the technical staff, upon the team's return from Egypt. Msolla said the Executive Committee has named former Tanzania national team coach, Boniface Mkwasa to take over as interim coach. “Boniface Mkwasa will take over for these two weeks while we look for a permanent successor,” he added. Following the sacking of the coaches rumours have been circulating that Zahera might be among those thought to replace Mayanja at KMC