RENOWNED Kenyan scholar Prof Patrick Lumumba argues that the surest way of solving African problems is to begin breaking down the continent’s borders, a move that would also facilitate decisively tackling neo-colonialism. Delivering a keynote speech at the Conference on Nurturing Industrial Economy in Africa at the University of Dodoma (UDOM) over the weekend, Prof Lumumba said if a single African country is left alone to make negotiations with a super power country she becomes too small and weak. “But, if Africa is united, she becomes stronger... the continent has 1.216 billion people. She has a market that cannot be restricted,” said the scholar while delivering his keynote speech on Laws and Industrial Economy. The two-day conference, which was organised by the University of Dodoma (UDOM) at its College of Informatics and Virtual Education (CIVE), brought together about 200 participants from ten African countries focused on disseminating and discussing research findings based on the main theme. Prof Lumumba said only unity could make Africa stronger; else, the continent would go nowhere, stressing that Africa must come together in order to be stronger. He said the African legal infrastructure was designed for African industries to remain at the primary level of production, pointing out that the African laws do not support inventions. “Until the day that we have laws that support and protect inventions, our industries will grow up. I am looking forward to the day when we begin to have protocols.... the protocols that address industrialisation in different sectors,” he observed. Prof Lumumba said African countries should invest heavily in research in order to promote industrialisation, saying the research projects were vital for spearheading industrial development. While opening the conference, UDOM’s Deputy Vice Chancellor, Planning, Finance and Administration, Prof Donald Mpanduji, said the conference would be seeking to address bottlenecks towards industrial economy. “The conference will focus on how to nurture industrial economy as a way to alleviate poverty,” said the Deputy Vice Chancellor while delivering the opening speech on behalf of the UDOM’s Vice Chancellor, Prof Faustine Bee.