TO speed up individual, societal, corporate and even national development, Tanzania needs a more inspired citizenry in all realms of life, who value greatly the science of wellbeing, including accountability. The school of thought was advanced by PH Inspirational Series (PHIS), Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mrs Alice Prince, who is also its founder member, while marking its one year existence recently in Dar es Salaam, adding that positive thinking would ensure one success in business. Elaborating, she further pointed out that the United Nations recognizes also the importance of happiness and well-being in the lives of human beings, in its General Assembly resolution 66/281 that is proclaimed annually on every March 20 as the International Day of Happiness. Equally, Mrs Prince maintains that the resolution seeks to promote economic growth that takes into consideration of sustainable development and gears to promote poverty eradication, happiness and the well-being of the people. “For our wellbeing, individually and at different societal levels, we must hold ourselves accountable to realize our aspirations or dreams,” she noted. The CEO believes that when people take accountability seriously, they would be able to strive and focus on reaching their dreams in an accelerated, consistent, steady performance that is progressive. However, Mrs Prince takes it that people and societies fail to actualize their potentials, when they neglect their wellbeing, especially being accountable. “You have to be accountable for your health-start with what you eat, and seek to be healthy physically and mentally. In the same way, you have to be accountable and make the right choices to realize your career, business or other dreams,” she noted. Expounding, lack of happiness results into stress and failure to have faith in oneself, and in turn usher in a state of one lacking power to drive to destiny and failure to fulfill pursued dreams. “Many times people, communities or corporate bodies just need some little guidance and some inspiration to make decisions to follow and stick in the right path in their struggles to realize their potentials,” she added. Mrs Prince is also on the opinion of the worldview that it is essential for one to live a quality life filled with happiness, saying: “We want a society that comprises many such people so that they bring positive changes. This calls for a society filled with a positive mindset; Individuals who are accountable to their dreams and people, who want to see others being happy.” Mrs Prince, in the last one year has run transformational sessions attended by over 300 people, who saw a number of participants fast enough starting to realize their dreams with her pieces of advice. Flashing back, as a Certified Public Accountant, a year ago she decided to add to a new pursuit in her career that would transform the community through her accountability, positive thinking and happiness. On her PH Inspirational Series, she says it is about positive thinking and happiness, noting: “It is a dynamic personal and corporate human forward development platform. It delivers workshops, programmes, and trainings, which enrich participants with practical tools to create and own their destiny and as well live a happier life.” The motivational series in the philanthropic organization are designed to help members of the community develop strategies, motivation, and accountability required to achieve their dreams and live a happier lif, saying: “The activities have been designed to fit members regardless of their background, age, gender or position they hold in life.” On her part, Voice of Women Entrepreneurs Tanzania (VOWET), President, Maida Waziri, recognized and hailed the inspirational series as transformative, saying: “We need positivity in what we do to foster development. Programmes like PH Inspirational Series are important in encouraging more Tanzanians to get out of their comfort zones and pursue their dreams.” Shedding light on that Dr Chris Mauki, a lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, noted that such an inspirational programme was a necessity to influence the public to realize their potentials and achieve much more, and be happy instead of wallowing in worries and inactivity. Unearthing Mrs Prince also known as Alice Nchwali, this is a lady who is also a Business Consultant, Public Speaker, Author and pioneer advocate of wellness science in Tanzania, who has a passion for transforming people to achieve their full potentials. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accountancy and is a Certified Public Accountant in Tanzan with a decade experience work with some reputable international auditing firms based in Dar es Salaam.