MINERAL dealers from the United States have promised to disseminate globally the fact that the rare blue Tanzanite gemstones exclusively originate from Tanzania. The nine dealers representing major US mineral firms like Tanzanite International and Diamond International have just concluded their special tour of Mirerani Mining Hills in Simanjiro, assuring Minerals Minister Dotto Biteko that things were bound to change for the better as far as gemstones business with Tanzania are concerned. With over 80 per cent of all Tanzanite Gemstones from Mirerani Hills ending up in the US markets, the just ended visit by the dealers was also described as another great stride towards realising more direct exports of blue gems to America. Mr Biteko who saw off the delegation at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) yesterday, pointed out that there have been mixed reports regarding the source of the rare gemstones that are exclusively from Northern Tanzania. “Due to the past mass smuggling of Tanzanite, consignments of the blue gems were finding their way into the United States as well as Europe from other countries,” said Minister Biteko. In the past, Tanzanite smuggled from Mirerani was taken to the neighbouring Kenya and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and later shipped to as far as India, China and South Africa. “The US dealers have now seen for themselves where the gems originate and will be great envoys of Tanzanite in America,” said the mineral minister, adding that Tanzania was working hard to reinforce issuance of ‘Certificate of Origin’ for all mineral exports to curb smuggling and enforce trust among foreign buyers of Tanzanite. Tanzania Mineral Dealers Association Chairman (TAMIDA) Sammy Mollel said they have been taking their American counterparts inside and around the Tanzanite quarries at Mirerani, giving them a tour around the export zone wall, mineral agent offices of Arusha and the city’s gemstone trading centre. One of the delegates, Kenneth Oschipok said it was his first time to visit Africa and Tanzania but was surprised to discover the real source of Tanzanite Gems. “And while at it, were amazed by the beauty of the country, tourism potential, abundant resources and great investment opportunities, we surely must return for another mission,” stated Mr Oschipok. The delegation, besides visiting Mirerani, also had excursions in Serengeti and Lake Manyara National Parks as well as descending into the Ngorongoro Crater. Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner Anna Mghwira invited the team for another visit to sample Africa’s highest peak found under her prefecture. Inaugurating Mirerani Wall last year, President John Magufuli stated that there were over 1,760 million tons of Tanzanite yet to be lifted from underground, saying the rare gemstones will be mined in the next 25 years. He said at the current rate of extracting 54 tons annually, depleting the nearly 2 trillion tons of the rare blue gemstones from Block C’ quarry alone will take up to 2042 but there is even big chance of fresh Tanzanite reserves to be found as time goes by.