PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday directed the High Court judges to respect their oaths of office and fear God in performing their judicial functions. Speaking at the swearing-in ceremony at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Dr Magufuli told the newly appointed 12 new judges to deliver justice and timely determine cases before them. “The work of judging is for God only. But here on earth the verdicts are passed by judges. Therefore, judge righteously. Justice should not be delayed,” Dr Magufuli said. He acknowledged several challenges, which the judges were facing in different areas, citing one of the new appointees, Dr Deo Nangela who was working with the Fair Competition Commission. “When he was in office, he almost got fired because he stood firm for justice and some people were wondering what kind of a Chaga man who does not embrace bribe. So, they worked out some tricks to fire him,” the head of state said. Dr Magufuli pointed out that each of the appointees has gone through some challenges but quickly advised them to accept the challenges as mere experiments, imploring them to go and effectively perform their duties and serve Tanzania, especially the poor who have been deprived of their many rights. He was of the views that the functions of the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance would be reduced if judges performed their duties effectively. Chief Justice Professor Ibrahim Juma appreciated the president’s support to the judiciary through increasing the workforce through appointment of new judges, bringing the current total number of High Court judges to 78 from the previous 66. But, Professor Juma pointed out that with the removal of two judges who have specific duties and two others who retire at the end of the year, the High Court will remain with only 74 judges. The situation, he said, will compel each judge to handle 518 cases annually instead of 220 required cases. The CJ counseled the new appointees, saying they are starting their new duties because they have been trusted and they have to go home with the faith. “No police officer will take care of them. The police are you. So, take care of yourselves. We have self-accountability… out code of ethics for instance requires you to determine 220 cases and provide proceedings and judgments, timely,” the CJ said. Apart from Dr Nangela, other new judges who were sworn-in at the ceremony also attended by Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa and Speaker of the National Assembly Job Ndugai include former Court of Appeal Deputy Registrar Elizabeth Mkwizu.