KILIMANJARO Queens hat-trick hero against South Sudan Mwanahamisi Omary, vowed that there is no way they are going to let the CECAFA title slip away from home soil. The Q ueens brought double celebrations to Tanzanians after pounding South Sudan 9-0 in the unfolding CECAFA Women Championship just one day after their brothers Taifa Stars posted a 2-1 victory in their first match of 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers against Equatorial Guinea. Held at a packed Azam Complex Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday, Kilimanjaro Q ueens were unstoppable, keeping a perfect clean sheet as they want to retain the title for three times consecutively. “I had good coordination from my teammates throughout the game, which we had to win at all cost to create a perfect environment ahead of other upcoming games,” she said. She added that despite winning with such a big number, the match was tense for them especially considering the fact that they are hosting the tournament. “Basing on the team’s performance, I have no doubt that we will be able to retain the title right here at home,” Mwanahamisi, who was also voted the best player of the match, said. She also hailed good rotation of players from the team’s technical bench, insisting that it helps to bring new dimension within the team. On his part, Kilimanjaro Q ueens Head Coach Bakari Shime said the triumph should not make them relax but rather look up for the next games. “It was a great performance from the team with massive turnout from fans something which gave morale to us and in the end, managed to win,” he said. Commenting on their next match against Burundi who also won in their opening encounter, Shime said they will not fear them but rather give them deserved respect. Burundi smashed Zanzibar Queens 5-0 to make their next meeting with Kilimanjaro Q ueens tough and intriguing. His counterpart for South Sudan Simon Yoh revealed that most of his players are inexperienced with the CECAFA competition saying the defeat will not pull them down but rather enable them to excel. “We have lost but that is part of exposure,” he said. Following Saturday’s results, the home side tops group A followed by Burundi whereas Zanzibar and South Sudan share the bottom two places as they are yet to post wins.