SOME decisions made by the Fifth Phase Government under President, Dr John Magufuli, as his administration clocks four years, have brought positive impacts in the legal sector. There are major reforms made to regain Judiciary’s public trust. They are in terms of infrastructure, notably building of modern court buildings. There are also amendments of laws, including the Criminal Procedure Act to introduce pleabargaining system aimed at decongestion of prisons and early disposal of cases. Our Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA revisits some of the decisions and reports… THE Judiciary is one of three pillars of the state. Other pillars are the Executive and Parliament. In terms of Article 107A of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, it is the Judiciary, as the only institution, which is charged with the duty of dispensing justice in the country. Few months after taking the country’s highest office on November 5, 2015, Dr Magufuli demonstrated that his government would not only support the Judiciary to ensure timely delivery of justice, but also adhere to the rule of law and enhance justice administration. On his first time to officiate the Law Day in February 2016, the Head of State directed the Treasury to provide over 12bn/- that had not been issued by the government as part of development budget and promised more offer of 250bn/- as part of 1tri/- worth of tax evasion related cases that were pending. Since he assumed the presidency duties, within the four years in power, President Magufuli has appointed a total of 40 as members of the bench, both at the High Court and Court of Appeal. Among them 27 are judges of the High Court and the remaining 13 are justices of the Court of Appeal. Within the same period, several other judicial officers, notably magistrate from the Primary Court to the Resident Magistrate’s Court level have been employed. There have been considerable numbers of filed cases following major reforms made to regain public trust, thus pursuing justice through courts of law. For example, in the year 2019 alone, between January and July, a total of 36,457 new cases were filed in different courts in the country. Within the same period, 42,055 cases were assigned for trials, while a total of 28,008 cases were heard and determined. In a bid to improve and speed up court proceedings, the judiciary introduced mobile courts, which are being used in areas with shortages of court building in different parts of Tanzania. There are two mobile courts that have been financed by World Bank in order to improve delivery of judicial services. President Magufuli officially inaugurated the Mobile Court services on February 6, 2019, to bring judicial services closer to the people and for timely justice delivery. Such services will also reduce cost of citizens in accessing justice away from the areas in which they live. Improvements of infrastructure Dr Magufuli’s continued support and enhancement of both recurrent and developments budgets has helped the Judiciary to improvements on good working conditions and other essential services, as indicated the Five Year 2015/16 - 2019/20 Strategic Plan currently being implemented. Such plan designed to carry out reforms aiming at improving infrastructures, that is, constructing modern buildings countrywide to accommodate court sessions and other offices of judges, magistrates and judicial officers, conducting trainings and introducing technology to save Tanzanians time and money. Hussein Katanga, former Chief Court Administrator for the Judiciary of Tanzania, has a campaign to re-introduce the judiciary to citizens and provide them with a forum for questions, for corruption reports, for reporting court official violations and their other concerns. “We have to buy back public trust, and we are trying to put our foot on the ground so that we interact with citizens, so that we can hear them, their grievances and complains, so that we can implement changes in the coming five years,” he says. President Magufuli’s government has also continued to maintain good relationship with several donors, particularly the Word Bank, which is supporting the Judiciary in implementing various projects under the strategic plan through Citizen-Centric Judicial Modernization and Justice Service Delivery Project. Among the Word Bank sponsored projects include construction of buildings of Pwani Resident Magistrate’s Court and Kibaha District Court, District Courts of Bagamoyo, Mkuranga, Kigamboni, and Ilala (Kinyerezi). Others are Kigamboni and Kawe Primary Courts in Dar es Salaam. In 2018/2019 financial year, the Judiciary of Tanzania in collaboration with the World Bank had set to build a total of six High Court Centres- Integrated Justice Centres- in Morogoro, Dodoma, Mwanza and Arusha Regions in order to provide timely and accessible justice. Other centres are to be constructed in Temeke District and at the Judiciary grounds located at Chimala Area in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam. Three other District Court buildings are to be constructed in Chunya (Mbeya), Ludewa and Makete (Njombe). During the same fiscal year construction works of District and Primary Court buildings in Mtae (Lushoto), Mdandu (Wanging’ombe), and Mkunya (Newala), Msanzi, Laela and Mtowisa (Sumbawanga), Uyole (Mbeya), Mlimba, Mang’ula na Ngerengere (Morogoro) were carried out. More construction works of the buildings to be used as district courts are being carried out at Rungwa, Lindi, Kilwa Masoko, Njombe, Kasulu, Rungwe, Chato, Geita, Kilindi, Songea, Mpanda, Sikonge, Simiyu, Longido, Bunda and Bukombe. The Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma is on record saying that such 16 buildings to accommodate district courts will be constructed. He says further that construction of other five buildings to house resident magistrates’ courts is going on at Manyara, Geita, Katavi, Njombe and Simiyu Regions. “The purpose of the fiveyear strategy plan is that by 2020 the Tanzanian Judiciary will have 139 district courts in all districts of Tanzania Mainland and resident magistrate’s courts in all 26 regions,” Prof. Juma says. The chief justices further points out that among 26 regions in Tanzania Mainland; only 24 regions have High Court buildings. He says construction works of two High Court buildings were going on at Kigoma and Mara Regions. According to him, before the end of 2017/2018 financial year, the judiciary is expecting to start another construction of High Court buildings at three regions. The regions to be covered include Morogoro, Mwanza, Geita and Singida. Prof. Juma says also that improvements of infrastructure on part of buildings would go with installations of high technological systems, notably the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT), as the best way of accessing information and would held the Judiciary in early dispensation of justice. Information and Communication Technology The Judiciary has constructed modern structures that support the use of ICT in order to provide timely and accessible justice for all. Moreover, the Judiciary of Tanzania has established a system for registration and administration of cases known as Judiciary Statistical Dashboard System (JSDS). Such system application is used to keep records and manage cases both civil and criminal. Recent records indicate that over 55,677 cases have been registered under the system, where 24,317 are civil and 31,360 criminal cases. The Judiciary Statistical Dashboard System also allows Judiciary stakeholders to access the system and register their cases. The system also can be used to send some information to the citizens concerning their cases through SMS in mobile phones. It is also connected to the Government e-payment gateway- GePG system to allow citizen to pay various Court fees through Mpesa, Tigopesa, Airtel Money, among other means. ICT usage in the Judiciary helps to reduce cost and save time for the citizen. Through ICT, citizen will get more time of doing economic activities rather than using most of their time in Court. Information such as Judgments and Proceedings can be easily and timely accessed. The use of ICT can also increase transparency and reduce corruption within the judiciary. Tanzania’s Chief Registrar Katerina Revocati is in record as saying, “We will have computers, and an efiling system that has the potential to revolutionize the efficiency and effectiveness of the judiciary. By introducing that e-filing system, it means we will be able to receive court complaints electronically.” She adds, “Someone is seated in the office somewhere and just logs into the computer and posts the documents to the court system. This can then be retrieved from the registry and the case processed immediately. The e-filing system will help improve Tanzania’s court record keeping and active case roll.” Law enactments and amendments After his nomination on July 21, 2015, as CCM’s presidential candidate for the 2015 elections, one of his priorities he marketed during the campaign was the fight of corruption. He promised to establish the Economic, Corruption and Organized Crime Court as division of the High Court of Tanzania. Early 2016, it becomes apparent that President Magufuli was genuinely waging war on corruption in the country. Though in previous administrations primary victims of these anti-corruption operations have been midand low-ranking civil servants, the current fifth phase government has proved to the contrary. There are number of senior officials both from the civil service and the private sector who are current in various courts countrywide facing economic sabotage and corruption cases. They may be at the preliminary stages or be at the trial stage. Indeed, in July 2016 the president endorsed the bill to become law for establishment of the High Court’s Division to help address graft problems in the country and speed up and timely dispensation of justice, whereas the rules governing the operation of the court were prepared and published. Such rules indicate how witnesses, that would be called to testify during the trial, would be protected and provides the procedure on how the cases to be determined by the court would be filed. The Corruption Court started operating in September 2016. Another positive decision President Magufuli has made towards improvements in the legal sector is the restructuring of the office of the Attorney General (AG). On February 13, 2018, the government published the Office of the Attorney General (Re-structure) Order, 2018 (Order). Such Order was published in Government Notice (GN) No. 48 of 2018. The President exercised powers conferred upon him under Article 36 (1) of the Constitution, vesting in the President Powers to establish and disestablish such offices in the Services of the Government of the United Republic. According to the Order in question, the President also established the Office of the Solicitor-General within the AG’s Office organization structure. It is in parallel with the Office of the National Prosecutions Services, commonly known as the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The Office of the Solicitor- General is charged with supervision of civil litigation and arbitration proceedings and shall be autonomous from the Office of the Attorney- General. Prior to this Order, all civil and criminal litigations were under direct control of the AG. Such Order further confers independence to the office of the DPP with mandate over all criminal litigations, while law officers in ministries, independent departments, executive agencies and local government authorities to be law officers and state attorneys under the supervision of the AG. The reorganization was, thus, made to enhance and strengthen capacity to efficiently discharge duties under office of the Attorney General, Director of Public Prosecutions, Solicitor General and Law Officers in ministries, independent government departments, agencies and local government authorities. Amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA) is another decision that has brought positive developments in the dispensation of justice in Tanzania. The Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No.4) Act of 2019 introduced, among others, a plea-bargaining system. Such system, according to the Chief Justice, will be applied in several criminal cases and is so helpful in the speedy of judicial proceedings. It is a move that ensures timely delivery of justice, reduce backlog of cases, as well as reducing inmate congestions in prison facilities. Though it is hard to exercise such system in complicated cases, such as those falling under the Economic and Organized Crime Control Act, President Magufuli with a sign of loving his people under his government, came up with another surprising decision. This time around the Head of State granted an amnesty to persons facing economic cases, who were willing to cooperate with the government to return the money they are suspected of occasioning as loss to the state, repent and promise not to repeat committing similar crimes. President Magufuli directed the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Mr Biswalo Mganga, to meet with the accused persons and sign a plea-bargaining agreement in accordance with the law in order to end their trials that are pending in various courts countrywide. While swearing in various leaders whom he had appointed, on September 22, 2019, Dr Magufuli advised the DPP to consider dropping charges facing economic crime suspects through the legal channels should the accused persons confess their crimes and re- pay the loss involved. President further directed the DPP to expedite procedures for early release of the suspects through legal channels. Such presidential amnesty was welcomed by many. The DPP is in record presenting to the president a list of 467 economic sabotage suspects who opted to plead guilty to their charges and repay over 107bn/- for release from remand prisons. About 138 suspects have been set free from various prisons countrywide after obtaining the amnesty. It is reported also that the process was still ongoing for other 500 accused persons who had also applied for the presidential amnesty.