THE management of Young Africans on Tuesday named Boniface Mkwasa as a caretaker coach after dismantling the team’s entire technical bench saying they want to start afresh rebuilding the team. Yanga have broken ice after rumours that were being circulated for the past weeks that the club was on the verge to go separate ways with Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera. Addressing members of the media at the club’s headquarters in the city, the club’s chairman, Mshindo Msolla said the team’s administrative committee reached that decision saying it is health for the smooth running of the club. “Today (yesterday), we have dismantled the whole technical bench starting with the head coach and the guard. The team will now be under the tutelage of Boniface Mkwasa and others who will assist him at the technical bench until we find the new coach” Msolla said. He added that they have since agreed with Zahera and his right hand man Noel Mwandila to go different paths and that they are finalising to pay them in accordance with the requirements of their contracts. According to him, Zahera’s contract was set to wind up in September next year while that of Mwandila was ending in December this year. “The terms in the contracts of the two departing coaches were clear that if one side is not satisfied, they can terminate it and this is exactly what has happened to our side,” Msolla said. Asked when they plan to parade the new coach, Msolla said they will advertise the post soon so that qualified coaches can apply either from within or outside the country. He then brushed aside claims which went viral on social media platforms that Zahera is demanding to be repaid his money he used to provide to the club calling them baseless. Moreover, Msolla admitted that the new incoming coach will face challenges to settle bearing in mind that all the available players were bought in accordance with the desire of Zahera but he was quick to elaborate that during the mini transfer window, they will go to the market. To the Yanga fans, Msolla urged them to continue backing the club insisting that everything will be fine. “Yanga is for them no matter what happens. What we have done is for the smooth operation of the team hence our fans across the country remain essential ingredient for the proper running of the club,” he said. Mkwasa’s first task at Yanga will see him guiding his former team for possible three points against Ndanda FC on Friday at Nang’wanda Sijaona stadium in Mtwara. Zahera will be remembered for navigating Yanga to the second place finish at the premier league table last season despite going through difficult period financially. His last match at the helm of the Jangwani based side was a 3-0 loss to Pyramids FC in the second leg battle played in Egypt.