IT was a good start for interim Coach Charles Boniface Mkwasa as Young Africans sealed a 1-0 away victory over Ndanda FC at Nangwanda stadium in Mtwara on Friday. The match was the first test for Mkwasa who was handed the technical bench after the club parted ways with Congolese coach, Mwinyi Zahera for allegedly inefficiency. It was their third victory for Yanga, who opened their league campaign with 1-0 loss to Ruvu Shooting at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yanga drew 3-3 in their second match before winning against Mbao, Coastal Union. The victory has helped Yanga move up with 10 points from fivematch outings Patrick Sibomana screamer helped Yanga seal the away victory. It was in the match lead in the 75th minute when Sibomana curled a tricky free-kick outside the box that sailed untouched into the yawning net past Ndanda goalkeeper, Ally Mustafa. The Rwandese striker netted the winner from a free kick awarded to them by referee Hans Mabena. Mkwasa who won his first test despite not having enough time to prepare the team, made some changes in the squad. He introduced Raphael Daud and Jafary Mohamed who had not been in first eleven choices during Zahera reign. He also opted to use Ally Mtoni in the central defence playing in partnership with Kelvin Yondani. Previously Mtoni was usually played as a fullback during the tenure of Zahera, but Mkwasa saw the full back position deserves Jafary Mohamed and Juma Abdul. The changes seemed to benefit Yanga as they managed to put their hosts under pressure in most time of the game. They dominated it right from the start, but their big problem was inaccuracy as they wasted several scoring chances they created in both halves. The two sides went into the breather with the score 0-0, and in the second half, Mkwasa brought in Mrisho Ngasa for Raphael Daud and the change gave new life to Yanga’s attacking system. The intensified attacks most often forced Ndanda to commit senseless fouls and one of them resulted into a goal. Yanga have moved up four places from 18th position prior to yesterday’s match to 14th in the league table after collecting 10 points. But Azam, who were playing against Biashara United late on Friday, can drop them into the 15th slot if they win it. In another league match held at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Kagera Sugar continue to inflict pains to KMC. The team defeated their hosts 2-1. Kagera Sugar have now moved up to the second position with 20 points and dropped Lipuli, who have netted 18 points, to the third place. Kagera Sugar are now two points behind the Premier League leaders and defending champions, Simba. Their goals were netted in their 25th minute through Awesu Awesu who converted a spot kick before Peter Mwalyanzi adding the second.