THERE is more to pork than what meets the eye. A seasoned medical doctor is now cautioning pork meat lovers that they could possibly be digging their own graves should they not control their insatiable appetites over the popular delicacy. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, former Director of Preventive Diseases at the Ministry of Health Dr Ally Mzige opened yet another can of worms on the effects that accompany those always craving for the pork. According to Dr Mzige, obsession to pork is more likely to cause Gout, a form of inflammatory arthritis that develops in some people who have high levels of uric acid in the blood. He further warned those ‘devouring’ on pork that they were likely to get Gout than if they had eaten beef or goat meat. “As a matter of fact; pork has more Uric acid than both cow and goat meat when combined,” he explained. He further pointed out that swine meat had high concentration levels of such chemicals which are created when the human body breaks down substances called purines, putting pork ‘aficionados’ at higher risk of contracting gout. The medical expert dismissed a popular belief that Pork was a white meat. “Unknown to many; pig meat doesn’t fall in the white meat category, it is a red meat, just like beef and goat meat.” According to Dr Mzige, cancer patients are prohibited from eating pork as they take a big dosage of Allopurinol, a drug that helps them to reduce pains from chemotherapy.Such doses contain Uric acid, therefore eating pork will be aggravating the problem,” he added. The seasoned doctor’s caution comes a day after experts in zoonotic diseases are now warning that the popular delicacy for mainly urban residents could result in central nervous system disorder if the meat isn’t well prepared for human consumption. The experts who are meeting here for the first Cysticercosis/ Taeniosis Conference 2019, opined that eating raw or undercooked infected swine could result to Cysticercosis, a parasitic tissue infection caused by larval cysts of the tapeworm Taenia solium. Once consumed by humans, Taenia solium eggs can lead to Cysticercosis, including a serious condition known as Neurocysticercosis, the zoonotic researchers said . At least five regions in Tanzania have been worst hit by the zoonotic disease, with 16 per cent of their residents suffering from Epilepsy. The areas include Songwe, Mbeya, Ruvuma, Arusha and Manyara.