AS part of its assistance programme to Tanzania, the Embassy of the United States of America in Dar es Salaam yesterday announced a financial grant of over 74,813 US dollars to seven registered community groups. The groups from across Tanzania will be working for the development, health and prosperity of their communities. Speaking at a ceremony to award the recipients, United States Chargé d’Affaires, Dr Inmi Patterson, said the grants reflect the US experience of the transformative power of citizens taking responsibility for their communities through local organizing and volunteerism. “The grants are part of two funds, the Ambassador’s Special Self-Help Program, which supports communities showing initiative to invest in their development and growth, and The Julia Taft Refugee Fund, a fund to support gaps in larger assistance programs for refugees,” she explained. Dr Patterson further explained that Tanzanians are the ones best able to bring sustainable solutions to the challenges their country face. She said they received 100 recipients but only six were chosen, representing several regions in Tanzania. “This year, the successful grant applications focused on economic empowerment, women development and also social projects for youth and children.” In the Self-Help Program, community members agree to provide labour, materials, technical, and/or financial contributions to the project, ensuring a high level of community investment and participation. One objective of the Self– Help grant is to combine grant funds with community resources to support important projects. Successful applications have strong community involvement and contributions; Provide significant community benefit; and are self-sustaining activities that can be completed in one year. One of the self-help projects will see the purchase of two sets of sunflower oil expellers with filters to generate income, which will fund health insurance and school fees for 50 orphans in Rukwa Region. In another project, a group will purchase a maize flour milling machine to be used by three villages in Idibo Ward, Morogoro Region, to foster income-generating opportunities. A beneficiary, Psychosocial Health and Entrepreneurship development skills, Project Manager, Ms Hellena Sailas, pointed out that it was high time the youth in the country changed their mindset towards entrepreneurship.