NMB Bank has said through its custody services set to attract more investors tap immense investment opportunities in government securities and other capital market products. There is increased investors’ appetite and participation in the primary and secondary markets, with most of the government papers ending the trading session oversubscribed. The outstanding performance of the short and long term debt instrument is set to continue as the government continues to raise funds for the implementation of long term infrastructural projects. The NMB Senior Manager Custodian Services, Avith Massawe said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that high investors’ appetite on government securities is an opportunity for NMB to go beyond conventional banking services to woo more investors with custodial services. “The NMB custody services provide investors with eased processes in accessing investment opportunities in government securities and equities,” he said adding, NMB as the licensed Central Depository Participant (CDP) provide consolidated valuation reports, securities reconciliation, putting all equities and corporate bonds into single CDC accounts to investors in order to make informed investment decision. The NMB Treasurer, Aziz Chacha said with 224 branches covering over 95 per cent of all districts, NMB Bank is set to reach and woo more investors through custody services to grab investment opportunities in capital markets. Mr Chacha said through its heavily oversubscribed threeyear NMB retail bond that became oversubscribed by 33 per cent to 83.3bn/-, signified high appetite among retail investors who participated actively from all parts of the country. “It is high time that commercial banks come with long term investment opportunities to woo more investors and bank customers that would in the long run push up financial inclusion,” he noted. He said through its custodial services, NMB Bank provides the service of holding its clients’ securities for safekeeping. The bank, through its team of experts in treasury and securities operations, also conducts services as administering clients’ accounts, transaction settlements, collection of dividends and interest payments as well as tax support. The NMB Chief of Retail Banking, Filbert Mponzi said through the custody services, NMB is doing everything on behalf of its clients who have invested in government securities and in listed equities. “After the NMB retail bond had posted outstanding performance, NMB has embarked on continued awareness creation to people in the rural areas to increase participation in the government papers,” he said. The bank through its custody services now makes the task of one to invest in Treasury Bills (T-Bills), T-Bonds and all other listed securities easier in that it allows them to do right during the primary market stage. The Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Manager Financial Markets, Lameck Kakulu said the positive performance of the short and long term government papers is an indication the high liquidity in the market coupled with high yield rates offered on the instrument. The Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) Chief Executive Officer, Moremi Marwa, said with only 550,000 investors actively taking part in the trading of equities in a country of over 45 million people, more concerted efforts are needed to promote public awareness.