AFTER scoring against Liverpool at Anfield on Tuesday, KRC Genk striker from Tanzania, Mbwana Samatta is now needed to lead Taifa Stars in their group L match against Equatorial Guinea on November 15th in Dar es Salaam. Samatta scored an equalizer for KRC Genk when his team lost 2-1 to Liverpool. His goal was very superb. Samatta flew to the front post and powered home a corner to punish Liverpool, who totally switched off. In truth it was a mad minute or so for Liverpool, who allowed Genk to whip an initial cross in from the right, which Alexander- Arnold got a crucial touch on to intervene to take the ball away from Samatta, conceding a corner in the process. But then Liverpool allowed Samatta a second bite of the cherry and the Tanzanian unmistakably finished. Samatta is one of the key players named in the 27-member squad announced on Wednesday by Coach Etienne Ndayiragije for Equatorial Guinea mission. Other nations pooled in group L besides Tanzania and Equatorial are Tunisia and Libya. The same squad according to Ndayiragije will face Libya on November 19th in Tripoli. The notable absences in the squad are Simba goalkeepers Aishi Manula and Beno Kakokalanya, while the list’s newest entry is Gor Mahia shot stopper David Kissu. Almost all players who helped Taifa Stars eliminate Kenya, Burundi and Sudan in the CHAN and 2022 Qatar World Qualifiers have been re-called. :Goalkeepers: Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata (Young Africans) and David Kisu (Gor Mahia). Defenders: Salum Kimenya (Tanzania Prisons), Hassan Kessy (Nkana FC/Zambia), Mohammed Hussein (Simba SC), Gardiel Michael (Simba SC), Erasto Nyoni (Simba SC), Bakari Nondo (Coastal Union), Kelvin Yondan (Young Africans ) and Dickson Job (Mtibwa Sugar). Midfielders: Jonas Mkude (Simba SC), Abdulaziz Makame (Young African), Simon Msuva (Difaa El Jadida/ Morocco), Eliuter Mpepo (Buildcon/Zambia), Iddi Suleiman (Azam FC), Salum Abubakar (Azam FC), Muzamil Yassin (Simba SC), Frank Domayo (Azam FC), Farid Mussa (Tenerife/Spain), Hassan Dilunga (Simba SC). Strikers: Kelvin John (free player), Ayoub Lyanga (Coastal Union), )Ditram Nchimbi (Polisi Tanzania), Shaaban Iddi (Azam FC), Miraj Athumani (Simba SC) and captain Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk/Belgium).