ZANTEL Tanzania has embarked on increasing internet penetration in the country through introduction of new and affordable smartphones. Zantel Head of Products and Pricing, Aneth Jamillah Muga, said the new smartphone ‘SMARTA’ presents an entirely new category that have the power to drive the penetration of smartphones across the country while becoming an enabler of the digital transformation. “We have introduced SMARTA in the market to propel affordable access to smartphones while giving people a unique opportunity to enjoy the opportunities presented by the digital lifestyle offered by Zantel through our 4G+ network,” she said. Zantel is constantly investing in innovation to address an increasing demand for data and high-speed Internet connectivity which is largely influenced by availability of low-cost smartphones. Muga said the new mobile device is available in all Zantel stores across Unguja and Pemba and at our shops in the Mainland and it comes with 12GB free internet to be used for 12 months. The dual SIM feature Smartphone ‘SMARTA’ which comes with exciting and beneficial apps such as WhatsApp, Facebook, You- Tube and Google. The Head of Zantel Zanzibar, Mohammed Mussa said the introduction of SMARTA is part of Zantel’s commitment to foster digital development by facilitating availability of affordable and reliable technology across the country. He said Zantel believes that access to digital products and services will change the lives of people for the better. “Digital access to education, healthcare, media, entertainment, financial services, and to the internet are all avenues to enhance the way we live our lives. Zantel’s vision is to enable access to digital services for the benefits of new and existing customers,” he said. He said the SMARTA affordability provides a solution to higher purchasing cost that remains a barrier to smartphone ownership in the country adding that introduction of the device will support digital development in Zanzibar. “Tanzanians no longer need to worry about cost when considering to buy a smartphone”.