SEVEN members of Tanzania Karate Federation have been invited to the United States to participate in the two-week tournament and a special training. Tanzania becomes the only African nation to take part in the event. According to the President of Tanzania Karate Federation and the chief instructor, Shihan Dady Kassim, the seven delegates will be leaving here on December 4th for the event christened West Coast Shotokan Karate Association International (WCSKKAI) USA tournament and training to be held in California from December 7th to 17th, 2019. “Karate and other forms of martial arts have been carrying the national flag to international scenes,” said the Chief Instructor, adding that these are types of sports that need a huge promotion, not soccer. Organised through the United World Karate Federation (UWKF), the General Instructor’s meeting and training course will be held at Arcadia, California. Other countries invited to participate in Karate Instructor’s meeting are Czech Republic, Canada, Venezuela, Mexico, Holland and Belgium. Out of the seven Senseis going to California, there are two delegates from Arusha; Dady Kassim Ramadhan and Isaack Mvarasau. The other five martial artists come from Dar-es-salaam and these include Sensei; Taifa Liwewa, Sensei Isaack Charo, Sensei John Edward, Sensei Katambi Mohammed, Sensei Salum Hassan and the only lady in the team Sensei Rose Pendeza. Meanwhile martial artists have decided to decorate Arusha regional patron and the District Commissioner for Arumeru, Jerry Muro by awarding him a certificate. According to the inscription on the document, DC Muro now becomes the Guardian of Karate and Boxing Federations in Arusha Region. “I appreciate this honour and promise to do everything to ensure these sports get as much promotion as soccer in the country,” said Muro. On the other hand, Lieutenant Colonel Ally Haniu was also awarded a certificate of appreciation to hail him into board of Trustees for the Karate and Boxing Federation of Arusha.