GOVERNMENT has discovered that some funds from the main budget set aside for the expansion of higher learning institutions every year are diverted to other activities and it has started working on the problem. This was revealed at the weekend by Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade Stella Manyanya during the 54th graduation ceremony of College of Business Education (CBE), where 2,439 graduated with certificates, diplomas, degrees and master’s degree. “Despite the government’s intensive investment in higher learning institutions we have come to realise that there is a problem somewhere because not all funds allocated to universities are spent as planned. We have started working on this and everything will be alright,” noted Ms Manyanya. She also said despite all efforts to improve universities, government was aware that the money that located to fulfil its mission was not enough compared to the real needs of higher learning institutions. The deputy minister congratulated CBE staff and management on the achievement they had recorded since the establishment of CBE 54 years ago, adding that the government was aware of lack of suitable infrastructure that faced its higher learning institutions, including CBE. “I also congratulate you on the construction of hostels in Dar es Salaam and Dodoma Campus where the World Bank is involved in public private partnership (PPP). I visited the place and witnessed that everything was going as planned. I commend you on these efforts,” said Ms Manyanya. Ms Manyanya also commended CBE management for the good supervision of college funds which enabled it to get a clean certificate from the office of Controller and Auditor General (CAG). She said CBE also got a clean certificate of public procurement awarded by Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) which enabled the college to emerge number two for achieving a clean certificate of public procurement. CBE Rector, Prof Emanuel Mjema, said the college continued with its mission of sharpening its academicians for further studies at the level of master’s degree and PhD using internal funds. Prof Mjema said despite all efforts by the college to develop staff career they had only 16 academicians with PhDs and among 178 lecturers they had, the college had sent 44 for PhD studies and six out of them for master’s degree.