WITH one year remaining before President John Magufuli completes his first five-year term in office, the government now focuses on accomplishing strategic projects already on construction. President Magufuli made various pledges upon assuming office in November 2015, with most of the promises contained in his parliament inaugural speech. Government Chief Spokesman Dr Hassan Abbasi, speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, gave detailed explanations on implementation of the wide range of government promises. He said as President Magufuli marks four years in the top office, he has registered enviable achievements in different sectors—infrastructures, water, health, energy and industrial. “During the next one year, there are projects, for instance, the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) that we must complete. Tanzanians are eagerly waiting for completion of this historical project to start travelling on electric trains,” Dr Abbasi said. He said with the first construction phase on the Dar es Salaam- Morogoro stretch already at an advanced stage, contractors have started construction works on another section from Morogoro to Dodoma. As construction continues, the government has embarked on the process to purchase 1,430 cargo and 60 passenger wagons. “When the SGR starts operations, these wagons will be used,” he said. He further said the government will put more emphasis on fast tracking construction of Nyerere Hydropower Project on Rufiji River to produce over 2,100MW to the national grid. It is expected that the project, once completed, will to significant reduction in power tariffs, easing production costs for industrial manufacturers. During the four years of Dr Magufuli’s presidency, over 3,000 industries have been established. Some of achievements recorded during the period, include observing the rule of law, with several individuals, including the corrupt facing stern legal measures. “We have followed the rule of law and we will continue doing so, wananchi have seen and enjoyed the benefits of the responsible government,” Dr Abbasi boasted. During the four years, the government increased water supply in rural areas from 46 to 65 per cent and in urban areas coverage soared to over 80 per cent from 65 per cent. Dr Abbasi attributed the achievements to the government sprit to speed up execution of development plans to attain the desired targets and ensure proper use of public funds.