THE government is considering reviewing the current formula used to allocate funds for maintenance of trunk and construction of urban and rural roads through the Road Fund Board, the National Assembly was told on Friday. Currently, the Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) gets the lion's share of funds from the Road Fund Board at 70 per cent while the Tanzania Rural and Urban Roads Agency (TARURA) receive 30 per cent. Deputy Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments), Mr Josephat Kandege, explained that the review is aimed at assessing reasonable allocation for TANROADS and TARURA. Mr Kandege gave the explanation when responding to a basic question by Kibamba MP, Mr John Mnyika (Chadema), who had expressed concerns that maintenance of roads has been dilly-dallying since TARURA is deprived of funds. The MP also tasked the government to explain how it is prepared to raise funds to enable TARURA construct roads in his constituency and other parts of the country. Responding to Mr Mnyika's question, which was raised on his behalf by Ndanda MP, Cecil Mwambe (Chadema), the deputy minister assured legislators that the country was working around the clock to ensure TARURA receives enough funds for its operations. He explained further that during the financial year 2019/2020, the government allocated 33bn/-for construction of rural and urban roads in 63 local government authorities countrywide. According to Mr Kandege, TARURA supervises a road network of 472 kilometres in Ubungo Municipality, Dar es Salaam Region. During the financial year 2018/2019, the agency received 2.9bn/-for maintenance of roads in the municipality, out of which 1.38bn/-was spent in Kibamba constituency, he explained. The deputy minister also explained that the government had during the financial year allocated 3.3bn/- for Ubungo, out which 2.074bn/- would be spent on maintenance and construction of roads in Kibamba constituency. Additionally, Mr Kandege said 770m/-had been set aside for construction for half a kilometre out of the 5.1 kilometre along the Musuguri-Temboni- Msingwa section, noting that procurement procedures were underway to hire a contractor for the work.