THE Benjamin Mkapa Foundation (BMF), has handed over medical equipment valued at 62,582 USD, equivalent to approximately over 138m/-, for operating theaters at Kirando along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika and Mwimbi Health Centres in Nkasi and Kalambo districts respectively in Rukwa region. The handing over ceremony of the project for the installation of the medical equipments for operating theaters at both heath facilities was witnessed by the Deputy Head of Mission from the Embassy of Japan, Mr Takeda Katshutoshi. The colourful events took place separately, first at Mwimbi health facility in Kalambo district, and later at the Kirando health facility along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi district. “It is a great pleasure and honour for me to participate in handing –over ceremonies for the installation of medical equipments for operating theaters at both Kirando and Mwimbi health centres ….. It is always a privilege to witness yet another contribution is made from the people of Japan to the people of Tanzania,” he added. He further noted that on February 18, this year, a grant contract was signed between the government of Japan and BMF, where the former extended US $ 62,582 by that time, equivalent to over 139 m/-, for installation of medical equipments to enable emergency surgeries at the two health facilities. “The project was implemented at Kirando and Mwimbi health facilities. Before this project, the two health centres’ biggest challenge was lack of medical equipment for surgeries, including cesarean sections, and an average number of 50 patients who required surgery services were transferred to other health facilities every month due to insufficient medical equipment,” added Mr Katsutoshi. He expressed his satisfaction over the successful accomplishment of the project, saying “I hope the provided medical equipment will be utilized effectively and maintained properly for a long time and will provide proper treatment to residents of Rukwa region,” he further explained. On her part, the BMF Programme Manager – Service Delivery, Dr Adeline Saguti Nyamwihura, said the installation of the equipment will improve Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (CEmONC) at both health facilities. She mentioned the medical equipment donated by the Japanese Embassy to include universal anesthesia machine, autoclave, theatre table, oxygen concentrator, suction machine and operation lamp each to both health facilities. “Uniqueness of Universal Anaesthesia Machine – UAM, the first internationally-certified anaesthesia machine that can generate its own medical oxygen and deliver anaesthesias without electricity, has a built-in oxygen concentrator that produces its own oxygen, in addition to providing standard connectors for cylinder, pipeline, and portable oxygen,” she added. She further noted that unlike traditional anesthesia machines, the UAM can remain fully functional in the event of a blackout, switching to room air as the carrier gas if no external source of oxygen is available. “The UAM also features a built-in monitor that can run for six hours without electricity….. Its ventilator, meanwhile, will operate for up to six hours on rechargeable battery and comes with a manual ventilation option as an additional safety measure…. In Tanzania UAM is certified by Tanzania’s FDA (TFDA) registration no TAN 17 MDR 0046 and is registered in Medical Stores Department (MSD) catalogue” she further explained.