COMPREHENSIVE Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania (CCBRT) has marked 25 years of services for children with disabilities and concurrently praised the government for its eagerness to improve medical services. Since its inception, the facility has been providing treatment to children with eye problems, cripples, spine bifida and mothers suffering from fistula. “We are thanking the government for its continued support and for providing land freely for the construction of the hospital and upgrading it to become a zonal referral,” said the President of the Board of Directors, Dr Willibrod Slaa in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. The government decision to provide land for the construction of the hospital resolved one of the challenges encountered at the beginning of getting a place where the medical services could be undertaken smoothly. He said that the idea of establishing a hospital catering for children with disabilities was born when he was in Zanzibar with Dan Wood. “We were moving around the streets and found children with eye and leg problems. For example, in one incident we found a child with problems of seeing during daytime but couldn’t see properly at night,” he further explained. He said during their rounds in the streets, they met and supported mothers who were asking for help to treat their children who had disabilities. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, who represented Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hasan at the event, commended CCBRT for its success story covering 25 years of medical services, despite the various challenges it encountered. She also hailed CCBRT for its mobile outreach services done in collaboration with various hospitals – Bombo, Tanga, SekoToure, Mwanza, Mnazi Mmoja, Zanzibar, Kabanga, Kigoma, Bagamoyo and Ikwiriri in Rufiji. “I commend the Moshi branch of CCBRT, for providing treatment and new hope in life to over 10,000 children and their families since 1996,”she said. Dr Slaa further said that during the nine month he worked with the Dar es Salaam team that had been formed to oversee health issues in the region, 900 service providers were trained. On women suffering from fistula, 800 women undergo surgery annually and statistics show that between 2000 and 3000 suffer from the problem.