MTIBWA Sugar have been named the best performers of the Premier League after the team produced both a player and a coach of the month awards for October. Tanzania Football Federation’s Awards committee has named Mtibwa Sugar attacking midfielder, Jafari Kibaya and his head coach, Zuberi Katwila, the winners of the best player and the coach respectively, halting Simba whose coach Patrick Aussems and players; Meddie Kagere and Miraji Athumani won the August and September awards respectively. And before that Simba leading scorer Meddie Kagere won the player of the month for August while Ruvu Shooting’s Salum Mayanga claimed the coach of the month award. K ibaya scored two goals in four game for his side to enable the Turiani-based side defeat Ndanda FC 1-0, Polisi Tanzania 2-0 and Coastal Union 2-1 before losing 1-0 to the league debutants. The players shortlisted for October Award included Mwadui FC striker Gerald Mathias who scored his team’s winner against Simba and Ditram Nchimbi of Polisi Tanzania who netted a hat-trick in his team’s 3-3 draw with Young Africans. For winning the player of the month, Kibaya will receive a trophy and 1m/- cash from the league’s main sponsor Vodacom Tanzania as well a decoder from the co-sponsor Azam TV. Mtibwa raised from 19th position in the league log to 11th position in October, currently the club has settled at the 9th position in the standings after collecting 12 points from 10 games. They have won three games, drawn three others while conceding four defeats. On coach of the month side, Katwila who also guided the national U-20 to win the CECAFA U-20 championship last month in Uganda, has beaten Kagera Sugar’s Mecky Maxime and Madenge Omary of Biashara United of Mara. Katwila, who missed some of the league games while on duty with the U-20 side, guided Mtibwa Sugar in four games, won three and lost one. The league continues today with Mtibwa hosting Mwadui FC at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro while the league defending champions Simba will be hosting Tanzania Prisons tomorrow at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam