WHEN there are no political Or institutional constraints, public investment should be determined mainly by development needs—to meet the requirements of a growing population and to reduce unnecessary bottlenecks. Policymakers believe investment would increase aggregate demand and raise employment and in general alleviate poverty in a long run. Therefore in order to achieve the goal government through fiscal institutions has formed various programs that enabled society to benefit from investment. You’ve heard of UTT AMIS a company owned by the government under the Ministry of Finance and planning doing the job of Collective Investment or Mutual Fund as termed in other parts of the world. Probably you also have heard that the collective investment schemes can be smart investments for almost any investor. But what exactly are collective investment schemes and how do they work? In some parts of the world like India, Europe, and USA collective investments schemes are the most popular investment types for the everyday investor. Why? Because they are simple investments to understand and they are easy to use--in many ways, it’s “investing for dummies.” In fact, if you’re not already one of the millions of shareholders of one or more collective investment scheme , you’ll only need to take about two or three minutes out of your day to read this article and you’ll be ready to get started investing. In some countries this type of investments is termed as a mutual fund but in Tanzania its described as collective investment and it’s been managed by UTTAMIS Plc under six different schemes namely, the ever popular Umoja Fund, Wekeza Maisha Fund, Watoto Fund, Jikimu Fund, Liquid Fund and currently the Bond Fund. Many Tanzanian are seeking success in their lives with diligence, perseverance, discipline and enthusiasm, these funds could be their vehicles to success. The simplicity of investing in collective investment is not just an attractive feature for beginning investors; The accessibility, versatility and easy-to-understand structure of schemes under collective investment makes for powerful investing vehicles for all kinds of investors, including the pros and can be appropriate for a variety of savings and investing objectives, including college, capital appreciation, growth and retirement. A collective investment is an investment security that enables investors to pool their money together into one professionally managed investment in this case funds are pooled together and given to UTT AMIS to manage under agreed rules and conditions. That means UTT AMIS becomes the fund manager and invests the money on behalf of the investors who pooled the fund together. UTT AMIS invests in stocks, bonds, cash or a combination of those assets. The underlying security types, called holdings, combine to form one collective investment, also called a portfolio. In simpler terms, UTT AMIS schemes are like baskets. Each basket holds certain types of stocks, bonds or a blend of stocks and bonds to combine for one collective investment scheme portfolio. For example, an investor who buys a fund called ABC Local Stock is buying one investment security—the basket— that holds dozens or hundreds of stocks from all around the country, hence moniker like. It’s also important to understand that the investor does not actually own the underlying securities—the holdings—but rather a representation of those securities; investors own units of the collective investment, not assets of the holdings. For example, the UTT AMIS scheme-the Umoja Fund includes Tanzania Breweries Ltd shares among other portfolio holdings that mean the collective investment investor (unit holder in this fund) does not directly own TBL shares. Instead, the collective investment investor owns units of the schemes he has invested in. However, the investor can still benefit by the appreciation of shares in TBL. Since collective investment can hold hundreds or even thousands of stocks or bonds, they are described as diversified investments. The concept of diversification is similar to the idea of strength in numbers. Diversification helps the investor because it can reduce market risk compared to buying individual securities. How to invest in Mutual Funds in detail Before you decide to invest in a mutual fund, it is important to keep the below points in mind. Doing so will help you choose the right kind of funds to invest in, and help you accumulate wealth over time. Remember wealth is not what you have collected but what you have invested. There is a need for many Tanzanians to have a change of culture, we have to move away from local saving methods like, pots, pigeon banks, under the mattress and normal saving accounts accumulating huge sums of money etc. An idle money, not invested is a waste and this is a big mistake. Identify your purpose for investing; This is the first step towards investing in a mutual fund. You need to define your investment goals which can be-buying a house, child’s education, wedding, retirement, etc. If you do not have a specific goal, you should at least have clarity on how much wealth you wish to accumulate and in how much time. Identifying an investment objective helps the investor zero in on the investment options based on level of risk, payment method, lockin period, etc. In order to invest in a mutual fund, investors need to comply with the KYC guidelines. For this, the investor needs to submit copies of Permanent Account Number through which purchase and re-purchase of units will be conducted, Identity card, Proof of Residence, age proof, etc. as specified by the fund house. The investor will also need to know about the funds available and their characteristic. The mutual fund market is flooded with options. There are schemes to suit almost every need of the investor. Before investing, make sure you have done your homework by exploring the market to understand the different types of schemes available. After you have done that, align it with your investment objective, your risk appetite and your affordability and see what suits you best. Seek the help of a financial advisor from UTT AMIS or elsewhere if you are not sure about which scheme to invest in. In the end, it is your money. You need to ensure that it is used to fetch maximum returns. Remember to consider risk factors, remember any investment as like in mutual funds comes with a set of risks. Schemes that offer high returns are often accompanied with high risks. If you have a high appetite for risk and wish to accomplish higher turns, you can invest in equity schemes. On the other hand, if you do not want to risk your investment and are okay with moderate returns, you can go for debt schemes. After you have identified your investment objectives, fulfilled the KYC requirements, and explored the various schemes, you can start investing in mutual funds. A bank account is also a mandate while making a mutual fund investment.