THE war against corruption during the four years of President John Pombe Magufuli is a success story that has resulted in increased transparency in public institutions, with billions of money recovered and directed to strategic projects aimed at improving people’s living standards. Soon after being elected into power, President Magufuli embarked on weeding out endemic graft that for decades had been denying majority of people a fair share of wealth generated in the country. The President made it clear to the world that he wanted clean, ethical and performing leaders. He has thus been fighting against corruption, embezzlement, impunity and entitlement. Since he has zero tolerance on these vices, he wastes no time relieving anyone of their duties, if they are found to be corrupt, inept or incompetent. The Present’s actions are in line with his repeated promises of serving the majority poor of this country, and boosting the economy to ensure every citizen gets a fair share of the national cake. President Magufuli’s anticorruption approach was welcomed by people, who were tired of endemic thefts of public funds, a discrepancy that had stunted the country’s progress for decades. Early this year when he was receiving Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB’s) Implementation Report, the President said, “Corruption is a threat to peace, justice and development… a corrupt country cannot attract investors. We are aware of the situation whereby investors refuse to come and opt for another country due to the vice,” He said if corruption is at its minimal, the country will improve basic social services, raise salaries and in turn be very successful. Tax evasion, for example, which was a small matter in the past is now a cardinal sin that is punishable by law. So far, the president’s efforts are on the right track. When President Magufuli came into power in 2015 he immediately made it abundantly clear that he would fight corruption left, right and centre. He went ahead with this noble initiative on all fronts and has not disappointed anyone so far. Some of the stern measures taken include the flushing out of 19,706 ghost workers and over 10,000 civil servants kicked out of the workforce for lacking the required academic qualifications. The efforts are of paramount because the government is keen on the possibility of attaining the envisaged industrial economy alongside provision of free education, improved health services, fighting against corruption and improving infrastructure. For example, since the government embarked on free education, pupils’ enrolment has increased by 35.2 per cent at primary education level. The move has enabled children from resource deprived households and those living with disabilities to access basic education, saying the government allocates 23.87bn/- monthly to finance fee-free education programme. President Magufuli and his government’s concerted efforts made Tanzania to climb to 99 least corrupt nations out of 175 countries, according to the 2018 Corruption Perceptions Index reported by Transparency International compared to 117 corruption ranks in 2015. Tanzania scored 36 points out of 100 on the 2018 Corruption Perceptions Index reported by Transparency International. Corruption Index in Tanzania averaged 28.62 Points from 1998 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 36 points in 2017 and a record low of 19 points in 1999. Tanzania is only behind its East African neighbour Rwanda which scored 56 points out of a possible 100, ranking 48 in the index that draws on 13 surveys and expert assessments to measure public sector corruption in 180 countries and territories, giving each a score from zero (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean). The country’s performance in the index comes as no surprise as since assuming the top most office in 2015, President Magufuli has been on the forefront in his anticorruption drive that resulted in the sacking of several civil servants who allegedly forged academic certificates and the arrest of key players involved in the economic scandal moves viewed by many as a sign of progress in his agenda to address corruption. The Corruption Perceptions Index ranks countries and territories based on how corrupt their public sector is perceived to be. A country or territory’s score indicates the perceived level of public sector corruption on a scale of 0 (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean). The PCCB recently managed to recover over 14.7bn/- while seizing bank accounts with balance of 20bn/- since 2016 for their linkages to corrupt practices. PCCB said that apart from forfeiting 14.7bn/-, also seven houses and four vehicles were forfeited for being linked to graft activities. During the period under review, the bureau also seized almost 150 assets and various items namely houses, vehicles, farms that were linked to corrupt practices. PCCB said further that corruption should not be taken lightly because its repercussions are adverse and negatively affects scores of people. Where corruption has become rampant, there is no peace, no justice and most importantly no delivery of service and the vice can destroy totally the economy by discouraging Foreign Direct Investment as well as local investments in the country. According to the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the crime of corruption deserves to be placed in the same category as that of treason because corruption among government leaders effectively destroys people’s confidence in their government, and such eventuality often promotes consequential harmful political results. Mwalimu Nyerere always took appropriate measures, both legal and administrative to implement his earnest resolve to combat corruption. Nyerere said even though we can endeavour to deal with the issues of poverty, ignorance and disease, it must be realised that all such efforts can effectively be reduced to naught, simply through corrupt acts perpetrated by leaders. In that note, the issue of corruption must be confronted with all the seriousness it deserves for it is a ruthless enemy that can cause even greater harm to the people during peace time than the harm which results from armed conflict during war time.