AS Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) announces a huge success in the provision of quality and specialised health care services during the four years of President John Magufuli’s reign, major effort should also be reinforced on education to the public on the importance of eating a healthy diet. This is because in human life, nothing is so important than good health that in some quarters is known as wealth, in another word, the absence of good health would mean one ‘perishing’, and that is why doctors normally advice the public to prevent occurrences of diseases than curing. On this note, good heath (from healthy foodstuffs) protects one against many chronic non-communicable diseases, such as heart disease, diabetes and cancer. Here a healthy diet comprises a combination of different foods, which would include staples like cereals (wheat, barley, rye, maize or rice) or starchy tubers or roots (potato, yam, taro or cassava), legumes, fruits and vegetables, considered instead of opting to treat a disease as a result of ignoring this. When these are observed alongside the improved services in the hospitals, the workforce would be healthy and strong enough to work bedsides the lifespan being increased. In the revelation, the national health facility has during the period saved over 30bn/- that could have been spent to seek the specialised medication abroad, according to MNH Executive Director Professor Lawrence Museru, while addressing reporters in Dar es Salaam, recently. Expounding, he said that in the four years of President Magufuli’s leadership, the institution saved 32,149,930,000/- through introduction of specialised services in the country and invested over 37bn/- in various departments to improve service delivery. Kudos! “Among his achievements at the institution, Dr Magufuli ordered the hospital management to restore the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and CT-Scan services and ensure patients, who were sleeping on the floor were supplied with beds immediately. “The president also directed the hospital to invest in services, which were not available in the country. In the past four years, availability of medicines at the national hospital has been improved and patients are currently accessing drugs by 96 per cent against the previous 40 per cent. “The national health facility is currently spending 1.5bn/- in procuring drugs compared to between 500m/- and 700m/- that was being spent on monthly basis before, however, the general medicine availability is satisfactory,” said Prof Museru. All these achievements among others must go along with the citizens eating healthy diets to keep the doctor away and save money in treating diseases, building hospitals and purchasing related paraphernalia in them.