THE Police Force in Tarime District, Mara Region, is holding five boys for interrogation in connection with the murder, last Thursday, of a teacher at Itiryo Secondary School, Mr Justine Ogo. Tarime Rorya Regional Police Commander (RPC), SACP, Henry Mwaibambe, said in a statement that the boys, who were carrying traditional weapons and were due to undergo traditional circumcision in December, were walking along a road. The deceased was a popular English language teacher at Itiryo Secondary School, according to the headmaster, Mr Paul Magaiwa. "This is a big loss not only to our school but to other neigbouring secondary school acknowledged as an accomplished English language who handled many classes", Mr Magaiwa told reporters in Tarime town last Friday. The killing occurred at around 6:40 am when the deceased was riding a motorcycle towards the neighboring Bungurere Secondary School to supervise the ongoing Form Two and Form Four national examinations. "He died instantly after being pierced with a spear through the neck, and two other teachers, a man and a woman, sustained minor injuries,” Mr Magaiwa said. The female survivor, Ms Nicku Shamko, described the incident as horrible. "Losing a teacher and colleague is a sad thing and as survivors we are also worried about our safety if we remain in this area; It is high time the communities do away with negative traditions,” she remarked at Tarime District Hospital where she was rushed for treatment. The body of the deceased was until Friday afternoon being preserved at the district’s biggest hospital pending burial arrangements. Tarime District Commissioner (DC), Engineer, Mtemi Msafiri confirmed the incident in a brief interview with this newspaper yesterday. "We will deal with the situation decisively,” Eng Mtemi said. Organisations fighting Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in Mara Region have strongly condemned the killing, describing it as in human and an attack on the battle against FGM. "This is an attack on organizations and activists who have worked for many years to stop FGM in Mara Region", Ms Rhobi Samwely, the Director of Hope for Girls and Women Tanzania said. Children's Dignity Forum (CDF), a popular local NGO that fights FGM and other GBV acts in Tarime said the killing of the teacher was acceptable. The Director of ATFGM Masanga Sr Stella Mgaya said: "This is an inhumane deed of the highest degree, " she remarked.