NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta has urged his teammates to produce nothing less than the victory on Friday against Equatorial Guinea at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Both teams meet in their first group J tie of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers, whose finals will be staged in Cameroon where 24 African teams will be on the battlefield battling for the continent’s glory. Entry charges for the upcoming match have been pegged at 3000/- and 5000/- respectively as one way to enable many people to fill the 60,000 capacity venue and back up the national team. Briefing members of the media at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) after landing ahead of the clash, Samatta who was accompanied by his striking partner Simon Msuva said winning the opening game will be a good start of the qualification campaign. “I believe that we are going to have good preparation prior to the forthcoming big match, bearing in mind that all expectations from Tanzanians is to see us winning the game,” he said. Additionally, the captain revealed that doing well on Friday will help to erase the bad memories which Stars experienced during the past 2019 AFCON qualification mission in which they posted a scoreless draw in their opening encounter against Lesotho. However, Samatta who plays for Belgium side KRC Genk admitted that he hardly knew anything about their opponents Equatorial Guinea but was quick to say Stars’ technical bench must have known them better. “To say the truth, I cannot say much concerning them because I know nothing even a single player who plays for them. It will be my first time to face them,” he said. Reminiscing about the UEFA Champions League match against Liverpool at Anfield Stadium in which he scored, Samatta said the goal will always remain in his memories forever. Liverpool won 2-1. “It was a good experience for me especially to score at such a difficult venue (Anfield). The game was much better for us comparing with the first leg we played at home,” he said. He also disclosed that his side is new in Champions League matches since most players who enabled them to clinch Belgium league title last season joined other European teams as such; the new players available are yet to cope with demands of the biggest club contest in the world. On his part, Msuva said Stars are now on the right track to make it big in football circles basing on the numerous achievements they are making in competitions. “I can see that we are on the right move. Even Uganda before reaching where they are now, they started in a similar way like us. The most important thing is to produce many players to cross boundaries and play professional football outside where they will be further exposed and meet new challenges,” Msuva said. He also disclosed that this season might be his last playing in Morocco insisting that he wants to go and seek greener pasture elsewhere. Meanwhile, midfielder Jonas Mkude has been dropped from the Taifa Stars camp after he requested to be relieved so that he attends family matters. According to a statement released on Tuesday by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, Stars Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije had cleared the Simba midfielder to leave the team’s camp for him to attend family issues. Taifa Stars have managed to excel in the finals of Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) and also reached in the group stage of 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers.