THE Police has called on road safety stakeholders in the country, including the media, to join forces in curbing road accidents which claim thousands of lives every year and lead to massive economic losses to individuals and the nation at large. Speaking at the opening of a three-day road safety training for journalists here, the head of Traffic Police -Education Department, Superintendent of Police (SP) Abel Swai underscored the big role the media should play in improving the country’s road safety status. “Media practitioners must play their role of not only reporting on road crashes, but developing contents that are backed up by accurate statistics and proposing solutions to the problem and avoid generating sensational contents,” he remarked. SP Swai said the police would do its best to enforce road safety rules and regulations and urged journalists to work closely with the police and other relevant authorities so that they relay the right message to the public. He pointed out that only wellresearched road safety stories which highlight the causes of accidents and ways to avoid them can reduce the problem. Mr Swai underlined the importance of road users’ education in improving compliance and making roads safer. He furthermore stressed on the need to take road safety education to the grassroots level, saying primary school pupils should be imparted with road safety skills, as they can also relay such knowledge to their parents. He praised the recent efforts by Alliance Insurance Tanzania and Engene petrol traders, who forged a joint partnership programme aimed at reminding motorists on the importance of observing traffic laws and regulations. “We believe that if these programmes reach out to primary and secondary school students, the messages will also reach the parents, grandparents and eventually create road safety awareness at all levels, starting from village, district to regional level,” he asserted. For her part, the Programme officer from the Tanganyika law society (TLS) Ms Mercy Kessy, said that it was of paramount importance for journalists and other stakeholders to not only help spread road safety knowledge to save children from being victimized by road crashes, but also make sure their rights are observed.