EAST African Community (EAC), partner states may not attain the fourth industrial development if they continue to turn a blind eye on development of its industries. Participants in a Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit (GMIS), Connect East Africa Roadshow held that the fourth industrial revolution could be elusive to the regional economic community should the six countries continue to allocate meager budgets on reviving and developing local industries. “The efforts we have put in reviving our industries leaves out much to be desired because we have been allocating little funds to the initiative,” cautioned Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade Engineer, Stella Manyanya on Friday. The deputy minister, who was fielding questions from reporters, further observed that the regional economic community was still lacking skilled personnel in driving forward the industrial revolution agenda, challenging partner states to start investing on its 172 million citizens. “No one should be left behind in this endeavor; it is therefore prudent to identify our priority areas,” she added. Dr Kirsten Focken, who is also the GIZ-EAC Programme and Cluster Manager on her part, opined that there was little progress of Industrial Development in East Africa. The development of industries in the region hasn’t been as rosy as it should, as it failed short of inclusivity and sustainability, according to Dr Focken. “As we all aspire to get to the envisioned industrial revolution we need to review our strategies,” she offered. She further tasked the six EAC partner states to work together in developing an agenda of achieving industrial revolution. Earlier on, EAC’s Deputy Secretary General in charge of Productive and Social Sectors. Mr Christophe Bazivamo, challenged partner states to change their mindsets and fully embrace the current and developing environment in which disruptive technologies and trends such as the Internet of Things (IoT), robotics, virtual reality (VR) and artificial intelligence (AI) are changing ways of lives and work.