HOME Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola yesterday issued strong warning against individuals bent on disrupting civic elections as candidates started canvassing for votes yesterday . Minister Lugola directed all regional police commanders (RPCs) to provide security to candidates of all political parties that had announced to participate in the November 24 local government elections. Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Governments, Selemani Jafo has repeatedly set the record straight, saying some political parties might have pulled out of the race but individual candidates will participate. In separate occasions, some opposition parties vowed never to take part in the civic polls. The parties are Cham cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (CHADEMA), ACT-Wazalendo, CCK, NLD, UPDP, Chauma and NCCR-Mageuzi. Mr Lugola revealed that he had reports that some people were plotting to create pandemonium during campaign with intent to mar the elections. He ordered the RPCs to launch manhunt on the individuals. Mr Lugola gave the directive yesterday at his home village, Nyamitwebili, Bunda District, where he was marking 15 years since the demise of his father. “I want you to be fair when supervising these elections but there are some people who have planned to bring chaos, deal with them and don’t have mercy on them…we want peace and tranquility in this country,” he said. Mr Lugola said those political parties have boycotted but there are some of their candidates who have ignored decision of their parties and decided to continue participating. “These candidates who continue contesting for posts should be protected at all costs because it is their right to contest for political leadership,” he stated. He allayed fears among the voters, encouraging them to attend public rallies to hear from candidates’ pledges. On other hand, Minister Jafo instructed the political parties and their candidates to conduct civilised campaigns which started yesterday countrywide. He assured that the exercise will be free and fair but appealed to political parties to adhere to the rules and regulations governing the local government elections. “Preparations for the elections are complete, so far, the campaigns which started yesterday will continue until November 23 this year and the following day people will use their constitutional right to vote,” he stated. He also urged citizens to turn up in big numbers at the campaign rallies to listen from candidates for the sake of making an informed decision during the voting. His permanent secretary, Mr Joseph Nyamuhanga, at the weekend stated that out of 12,319 villages a total of 6,837 candidates (equivalent to 53 per cent) have sailed through unopposed while 1,279 contestants (equivalent to 30 per cent) in 4,263 have also sailed through unopposed. He said in all areas, where the candidates have sailed through unopposed, there wouldn’t be any political campaigns. Initially, there were about 100,000 polling stations across the country but with some candidates sailing through unopposed, the number is expected to drop significantly.