A famous car dealer company, CMC Automobiles Limited, has applied for arrest and detention in prison of former Member of Parliament (MP), Ms Zarina Shamte Madabida, for allegedly failure to satisfy a court decree for over 40m/- payments. The ex-lawmaker (Special seat- CCM) had purchased a motor vehicle from the company under the Members of Parliament special price, but failed to pay the whole sum as agreed by the parties, thus, forcing the car dealer company to take the matter to Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court. In its application for execution of the court’s decree, the company, the decree holder, through Advocate Paschal Kamala from Vertex Law Chambers, is seeking the assistance of the Dar es Salaam Court to realize a sum of 17,678.83 US dollars by arresting and imprisoning Ms Madabida, the judgment debtor. The judgment debtor has swore an affidavit in response to the application in question, stating that she has no any means of paying the amount of the decree due to insolvency she has now succumbed to and has not assets or properties which could be sold to satisfy the decree sought to be executed. According to her, prior to being appointed to the Parliament, the judgment debtor was working as Deputy Managing Director of Tanzania Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (TPI), which had been manufacturing and distribution of some drugs. She stated that it is publicly know that the TPI has been suspended by the government, through the erstwhile Tanzania Foods and Drugs Authority (TFDA), from manufacturing and distributing any drugs from its factory at Arusha having being suspected of counterfeit anti-retroviral drugs (ARVs). “My income which could be applied in satisfying the decree in this matter was coming from TPI Limited which as I have stated is out of business since October 2012 to this day and practically my employment has ceased,” reads part if her affidavit. However, a Principal Officer with CMC Automobile Limited, Mr Antony Haji, has vehemently disputed some of the facts the judgment debtor raised in her response to the application and demanded her to prove the same strictly. In his counter affidavit, the officer of the decree holder stated that the judgment debtor was supposed to pay the purchase price until September 2011 when she was MP, a position which she held until 2015 and that her failure to pay in time prompted the company to file the current proceedings. According to him, having no properties and assets to sell and suspension of production business of the TPI could not exonerate the judgment debtor her obligation to satisfy the decree of the court. It was alleged that the decree holder and judgment debtor entered into an agreement whereby the former supplied to the latter a motor vehicle Station Wagon under the Members of Parliament special price in which the total purchase price was 44,061 US dollars. The judgment debtor paid a sum of 19,710 US dollars which is convertible in local currency to the tune of 30m/- as down payment. The balance of 24,351 US dollars was supposed to be paid in six equal installments of 4,058.50 US dollars between April 21 2011 and September 21, 2011. However, it was alleged that the judgment debtor paid three installments only leaving a balance of the said 12,175.50 US dollars unpaid. The decree holder attached copies of the invoices and receipts of the payment to support the suit that was lodged.