PETROBENA East African Limited, main distributor of Yara fertilizers and other farm inputs, has promised to purchase 250,000 kilogrammes of tobacco from Ngolo Agricultural Marketing Co-operative Society (NAMCOS) in a bid to support efforts by the fifth phase government led by President John Magufuli of achieving middle income economy. Speaking to journalists yesterday in Kahama, the Firm’s Managing Director, Mr Peter Kumalilwa, said here over the weekend that his company would continue to support efforts by the government to improve living standards of farmers through reliable market of their harvests. “Our aim is to make sure that farmers are benefiting from their agricultural activities, we distributed fertilisers to them and we feel obliged to purchase their produce,” Mr Kumalilwa said. Apart from promising farmers that the company would find market to their produce next season, Mr Kumalilwa said that Petrobena would purchase 250,000 kilogrammes of tobacco or even more depending on the quality. “There is a challenge in finding market for tobacco, we promise to find market for this cash crop next year and to start with we will purchase 250,000 kilogrammes of tobacco this season or even more depending on the quality,” he said. On his part, the Kahama Cooperative Society Chairperson, Mr Emmanuel Peter thanked Petrobena for its efforts aimed at supporting farmers to overcome economic hardships. “We thank you Petrobena a lot for your efforts to connect farmers with market opportunities and assurance of farm inputs including fertilizers, the time has come for patriotic companies like you to help farmers understand better ways of farming,” he said. Mr Peter request Tobacco Board to issue more tobacco purchasing permits to buyers to shun shortage of buyers as was the case in previous seasons. Mr Godfrey Mkunga, a tobacco farmer pointed out that the coming of Petrobena has brought new hope to tobacco farmers after several years lack of market. “The coming of Petrobena is a blessing to us, this gives us an assurance of executing our plans and other development activities,” he said. The Kahama Tobacco Regional Manager, Mr Albert Chale apart from thanking Petrobena, he called on extension officers to reach out to farmers and shun the tendency of locking themselves in offices.