EVERY culture and tradition represents the nation’s identity, the way of life of a certain community; carrying its rich history as well as telling its story. This is no different in the famous drums and dances that are performed by Burundi that call people from far by their rhythmic, joyful and fascinating beats that can be heard from the depths of the heart. For any lover of culture, drums and traditions; the Burundi performance is not to be missed. It drew a lot of attention during the East African Community Arts and Culture Festival (JAMAFEST) that took place in Dar es Salaam in September this year. The Festival featured a carnival, art exhibitions, a symposium, live performances, films, literary works, a fashion show and traditional games; from the five East African countries; Burundi, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania. The Burundi performances, among others left foot prints in people’s minds and the memory of drum beats in their hearts. Chief Dunia Abeid and head of the Burundi group ‘komeza akaranga’ said that they came for JAMAFEST representing their country. “We brought our drums and our dancers because wherever our drums go they represent our country and so does our traditional attires.” He explained that, every drum beat and dance in Burundi has a meaning and signifies some part of their history. Every traditional dance and its music have two major categories. One is played at every end of the year when the king wants to give seeds to his people to plant by giving his blessings. Another category is the drums that are played in national functions. “So if Burundi is invited in a foreign nation it carries its drums, as it represents a country attending the event, this helps the citizens of the country to know about Burundi in a short time because of the drum beat, that attract them to listen and find out more about our nation,” he elaborated. He further revealed that the drums also mean regime. The variation in the drum sizes have their own meaning which is also portrayed by the way they are played. “The sizes of the drums too mean different levels of administration. The first one signifies vice president, second is president, and the ones that follow indicate Member of Parliament, district and regional commissioners, and the smallest ones signify the citizens,” he said adding: “When they are played, big drums have many different ways that they can be played and mean something different; but the small drums maintain the same drum beat, as this means the citizens wait to be directed by law and abide by it.” The drums as they are played show how authority or power is supposed to be interchanged amongst people peacefully. “The drums as they are played, show the democracy that is existing in the country where people do not remain in power but pass it on to other people,” he asserted. He paraphrased a saying in Burundi that states, ‘stealing a drum is not hard, the issue is where to play it’. Meaning; when u take the rule by force it is okay, but in administration you will fail because you took it by force. Chief Abeid revealed that their presence in Tanzania means that they are representing their country. “Our presence here, means we have brought the beauty of our country with us, and with our drums we might even attract tourists who would just visit Burundi to witness its drums being played and its history,” explained the ever enthusiastic Chief. He elaborated that apart from the drums that are played by men, another thing witnessed in their traditional performance is the girls who were dancing gracefully but did not play the drums. “This is because in our tradition, it is very wrong for a woman to play the drums.” ‘Ngoma ni ushujaa wa mwanaume’ he insisted, meaning drums are meant to express the strength of men. Ladies on the other hand are expressing their fascination of the displayed strength by how the men play their drums and as a reward to that portrayal of strength they gracefully dance, as they celebrate men’s masculinity. “That is why in the entire performance the drums are beaten by men and the women dance gracefully like angels who are well taken care of.” He added that the chief also does not play the drums because he represents the leaders. “You cannot find a president cheering for himself, but people are to cheer for the president. Same with drums, they are played as a way to cheer the leaders, and a chief playing the drums is like a leader who is cheering for himself in front of the nation.” Chief Abeid commended the efforts put into organising the festival. “It is evident that they valued the festival and prepared it according to its worth.”