IN 2014 when BG Tanzania ran one of the best oil and gas international graduate programmes in the world, Oscar Mmari quickly plunged in and had his hands firmly on job. The programme, Oscar remembers, sought to expose young workers to a myriad of oil and gas operations from around the world. “As luck would have it, this was one of the best international graduate programmes in the world. I strongly believe this early exposure to operations has bolstered my confidence and technical capability,” he declares thankfully. Mr Mmari is now a Petroleum Geologist who works with Shell Tanzania, and his colleagues say he has enviable sixyear experience in the oil and gas industry--- thanks to the job opportunity. When asked about what a geologist does, he replied “The role of a geologist in an oil company is to locate, drill and plan for safe evacuations of hydrocarbons. The other crucial role for a geologist is to determine the amount of hydrocarbon that are found in the fields and how much can ultimately be recovered at the surface. This approximation is vital for any project execution because it informs the size of the facilities needed and the financial commitment that is affordable. There have been cases when geologists have underestimated the size of the hydrocarbons in the ground which resulted in failure to meet contractual obligation like gas delivery. To accomplish this intricate task, geologists take deliberate steps to ensure that the computer reservoir simulations, which are used for volumetric calculations, are benchmarked against known fields or analogues.” When Oscar joined the international graduate program, the company was in the middle of executing a monumental exploration campaign that led to the discovery of massive gas fields offshore Tanzania. Oscar, as part of his role as a geologist, was involved in the planning and drilling of Kamba-1 well which was a beautiful discovery. In order to take part in the drilling of the well, Oscar had to travel to Mtwara in a helicopter then to the drillship that was anchored in the middle of the Indian Ocean. He recalls his experience living and working in a big drill-ship being, he says, surprisingly comfortable. “The ship had world class amenities like swimming pool, gym and spacious accommodation. The crew was competent and friendly, and safety was always paramount. The operations worked like a Swiss clock. Every morning there was a team meeting to discuss the progress made the day before and discuss about the challenges for the day. Drilling continued day and night with shift-changes every 12 hours,” he remembers. Oscar says he enjoyed working with the drilling and mud-logging team because they worked with modern equipment. But the best time, Oscar recalls, was with the environmental watch team. That team was lean, made up of 2 biologists that were constantly on alert for large sea animals like dolphins and whales. When Mr Mmari is not working on drilling rigs he works as a geologist in office. Today, BG Group is part of Royal Dutch Shell through the 2016 acquisition. Shell, with various operations in the world, has opened more doors for the Tanzania Shell staff. During his brief time in Shell, Oscar has worked in the UK, Nigeria and Russia. In Nigeria, Oscar worked with the Bonga team in Lagos striving to extend the life of the mature fields by drilling new wells to maintain the oil production. “Working in Nigeria was an eye-opening experience for me in many ways. Firstly, I learned how oil and gas has changed fortunes of Nigeria. The price of energy is affordable even though not always readily available. Shell in Nigeria also hires thousands of people, technical and non-technical, providing vital jobs to the local economy. But the most impressive aspect was contribution of local content in the development and daily operations of the asset". “Nigerians are responsible for planning, developing and executing of expensive wells with little support from outside. Nigeria also operates an LNG plant like the one planned for Tanzania. It was encouraging to see another African country being in complete control of such an intricate project. This gave me hope that Tanzania will also get there one day” Oscar quips. Oscar is currently preparing for his next role with Shell USA in Houston. He says he is very excited about his next chapter of his career but also appreciative of how much Shell has changed his life. “I joined the oil and gas industry to provide affordable and reliable energy to the world’s underprivileged and Shell is making my dream come true.” Only a few weeks back --- just before the Tanzania Oil and Gas Conference that was held in Dar es Salaam--- Shell Tanzania’s new Managing Director and Country Chair Frederik Grootendorst, said he will devotedly lead the Shell team in Tanzania in a concerted effort to make the Tanzania LNG project materialized. “I plan to share my global experiences through building trusting relationships with all stakeholders and partners in the development of the project,” Mr Grootendorst said.