TAIFA Stars Assistant Coach Juma Mgunda disclosed that the type of training they are undertaking are directly proportional to the nature of their opponents Equatorial Guinea. The two teams go head to head on Friday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam for the group J clash of the 2021 Africa Cup of the Nations (AFCON) qualifiers whose finals will be staged in Cameroon. However, Star’s skipper Mbwana Samatta is expected to join his colleagues today ahead of the Friday clash while Simon Msuva, who plays professional football in Morocco, was expected to arrive home yesterday. Speaking after a morning session, Mgunda said they are aware how tough their opponents are, hence the type of practice they are doing is in accordance with the capability of the opponents they will face. “We are aware that almost 98 per cent of Equatorial Guinea players are professionals who trade outside their country that is why we have to do our homework well so that at the end, we get the positive results that suit all Tanzanians,” he said. He added that in international matches, the clubs play a big role in grooming players who are to be selected for the senior team. Due to that they prefer to give them a short period of training because they are all well drilled by their clubs. “Since most of the players we have are doing well in their respective clubs, as coaches, we just need to add something where we see a vacuum and keep them in the mood of the match which has national interest,” said he. Moreover, Mgunda observed that the majority of the summoned players have the same members who performed well in CHAN qualifiers, a thing he said will help to simplify their work as they already know each other better. Asked why Simba SC first choice goalkeeper Aishi Manula has again been dropped in the latest 27-member squad, Mgunda replied that when the right time comes, Manula will be re-called. “Players to serve in the national team are not selected due to their popularity but rather on the demands within the team. At the moment, the squad is complete. It is just a matter of time for him to be re-called. Remember in the previous matches, he was being called while others were left behind,” he said. On his part, Stars' defender Hassan Kessy said they are grasping well all the training lessons ahead of the upcoming crucial encounter. “The most important thing is for more Tanzanians to come on Friday to give us morale throughout the game,” he said. Additionally, Kessy who plays professional football in Zambia’s Nkana FC, admitted that from the experience he has gained in AFCON games after being part of the Stars' squad which played in this year’s edition in Egypt, the competition is not that easy as many people think. The 27 member Stars' squad summoned to face Equatorial Guinea is made up of the following: Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata (Young Africans), David Kisu (Gor Mahia), Salum Kimenya (Tanzania Prisons), Ramadhan Kessy (Nkana FC) and Mohamed Hussein (Simba), Others are Gadiel Michael (Simba), Erasto Nyoni (Simba), Bakari Nondo (Coastal Union), Kelvin Yondani (Young Africans), Dickson Job (Mtibwa Sugar), Jonas Mkude (Simba) and Abdulaziz Makame (Young Africans). Also the list consist of Eliuter Mpepo (Buildcon, Zambia), Iddi Suleiman (Azam FC), Salum Abubakar (Azam FC), Ditram Nchimbi (Polisi Tanzania), Shaban Idd (Azam FC), Mzamiru Yassin (Simba SC), Frank Domayo (Azam FC), Mbwana Samatta (Genk-Belgium), Farid Mussa (Tenerife- Spain), Miraji Athuman (Simba SC), Hassan Dilunga (Simba SC) and Kelvin John (Football House