AS action started yesterday in the Group Phase of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), legendary Taifa Stars players have been invited to visit the team’s camp and give players’ much needed morale. Taifa Stars take on Equatorial Guinea tomorrow at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in one of the 48 matches to be played on Match Day 1 and MatchDay 2 between November 13 and 19. Star’s face off Equatorial Guinea in their first group J qualifiers whose finals will be staged in Cameroon to find out which team among the 24 national teams is the best on the continent. The home team is already on the ground practicing for the important match with their training schedules starting at 7:00pm, which is the kickoff time for tomorrow’s clash. Nicknamed National Thunder, Equatorial Guinea are set to arrive in the country today according to the statement made available by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo. The match promised to be tough basing on the reference to the latest FIFA ranking table African Zone (October 2019), in which, Tanzania is ranked 37th, while Equatorial Guinea occupies 38th slot on the 54-team table. Speaking yesterday here, Taifa Stars team manager Nadir Haroub said legendary players have a key role to play when it comes to motivating players especially in big matches. “The doors are wide open for any former Taifa Stars player to come and give words of encouragement to the players ahead of their Friday (tomorrow) match which is important for us to win,” Haroub said. He added that there are many legend players who featured in the senior team hence have lots of experience on how it feels to put on Star’s jersey and fight for the country as such, they can add value to the current players before facing the Equatorial Guinea. In terms of the camp atmosphere prior to the encounter, Haroub said each player is working hard to get playing time tomorrow and help the team emerge victorious . “As you know, playing in the national team is a dream for every player that is why the competition is high giving the technical bench tough time to select who to start,” said the former Stars and Young Africans captain. Meanwhile, Taifa Stars midfielder Jonas Mkude who is reported to have been removed from the 27-member squad has vowed to take legal action against a reporter who claimed that TFF failed to pay him his dues hence the reason he opted not to continue training with the team. On his Instagram page, the playmaker wrote: “Lately, reporters have been doing a recommendable job in promoting awareness about the upcoming Stars’ match on Friday. But, I am depressed with the recent media comments which are not true and aimed at distracting our unity ahead of the game.” He continued: “On top of that, the comments simply aimed at affecting my relationship with Tanzanians and TFF as such, I will take legal action against the reporter of the story.” Earlier reports indicated that family issues forced Mkude out of the current national team squad