THE International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (Mechanism) has expressed its gratitude to the government of Tanzania for unwavering support. President of the Mechanism, Judge Carmel Agius showered praises on the government of Tanzania on different occasions during his visit to Dar es Salaam, where he met senior officials. It was his second visit to Dar es Salaam where he held high level meetings after having travelled to Arusha earlier in November to spend some time with members of staff at the Mechanism’s Arusha branch. President Agius utilised his presence in Tanzania to visit Dar es Salaam where he met with Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, and Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga. Judge Agius briefed the ministers on the Mechanism’s work and reiterated his gratitude to the government of Tanzania for the unwavering support the Mechanism continued receiving. The Mechanism was established by the United Nations (UN) Security Council Resolution 1966 in 2010 to complete the remaining work of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia after the completion of their respective mandates. The Mechanism has two branches, one in Arusha, Tanzania, and the other in The Hague, The Netherlands. Tanzania has been hosting thousands of refugees, including those from Rwanda who fled the Rwandan Genocide or the genocide against the Tutsi that was a mass slaughter of Tutsi, Twa and moderate Hutu in Rwanda that took place between April 7 and July 15, 1994 during the Rwandan Civil War. The genocide was organised by members of the core Hutu political elite, many of whom occupied positions at top levels of the national government. Most historians agree that genocide against the Tutsi was planned for at least a year. However, the assassination of Rwandan President Juvénal Habyarimana on April 6, 1994 created a power vacuum and ended peace accords. Genocidal killings began the following day when soldiers, police and militia executed key Tutsi and moderate Hutu military and political leaders. In his visit to Dar es Salaam, Judge Agius also met with members of the diplomatic corps accredited to Tanzania, who he briefed on the progress of the Mechanism’s work and the various challenges it faced in the implementation of its mandate. Before travelling to Dar es Salaam and in the spirit of fostering strong working relations between the Mechanism and other judicial institutions in Arusha, Judge Agius met with the President of the East African Court of Justice, Dr Emmanuel Ugirashebuja, to discuss matters of mutual interest to both institutions. The Mechanism could see its judicial work concluded by next year. Judge Agius broke the news at New York, USA in October this year, when he met with the President of the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Ambassador Tijjani Muhammad-Bande. Judge Agius indicated a possibility of concluding nearly all of the existing judicial work by the end of 2020, but stressed that to do so the Mechanism would need to receive necessary resources. Subsequently, he presented an overview of the Mechanism’s 2020 budget requirements. There is apprehension of the remaining eight fugitives indicted by the ICTR. President Agius further expressed his sincere appreciation for the support provided by all states enforcing sentences imposed by the ICTR, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia or the Mechanism. There is also a serious situation of the nine individuals who have been acquitted or released by the ICTR and remain in Arusha awaiting a long-term solution for relocation. He reiterated his personal commitment to strengthening the ties between the Mechanism and both Rwanda and the countries of the former Yugoslavia.