DEPUTY Minister for Minerals, Stanislaus Nyongo has expressed the government’s intention to export purified gold at 95 per cent to get the needed revenue. He said that to make it work, the ministry has taken up a number of initiatives, among which are to ensure that the gold which is sold at mineral markets are pure and the ones for export are purified by more than 95 per cent. “That is among the value addition strategies in the mining sector, because as you are aware, purified gold fetches the best prices and can be stored in the Bank of Tanzania for future economic gains,” he said. He expressed the sentiments here yesterday when debating at the Tanzania Extractive sector conference commonly known as Jukwaa la Uziduaji organized by HakiRasilimali organization, being part of the Civil Society Organisation week activities. Mr Biteko said the changes being undertaken in the mining sector, among other aims, are meant to create transparency and accountability and at the same time, make the public feel the economic gains from the natural mineral resources the country is blessed with. “The mineral sector must be among top actors whose contribution to national economic development can be directly seen as we plan that come 2025, our contribution rises to 10 per cent from five per cent,” he said. He said the government’s focus is to empower small scale miners who are targeted, so that their contribution to socio-economic development facilitates positive impact and to make it work they are in the final details to come up with Small scale miner’s development fund. On his part, the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani said they are eyeing for a vibrant natural gas sector calling upon stakeholders’ joint efforts to make it happen. Dr Kalemani said the government strives to have the best laws, rules, regulations and guidelines which advocate not only for transparency and accountability but also bring positive economic gains. The minister called upon the public to increase use of the gas which he said that apart from the low prices, also protects the environment, assuring the government’s improved infrastructure for gas supply.