SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) has said the expansion programme for its plant in Dar es Salaam and Moshi will increase the capacity of the growing customer demand and create more jobs. “The 14 million UK Pounds worth of expansion work will not only increase production capacity but also bring more job opportunities to Tanzanians while creating further demand for barley, maize and sorghum which the company sources from local farmers,” said the SBL Managing Director, Mark Ocitti recently in an interview. SBL currently employs over 800 staff both directly and indirectly in its breweries and thousands of other beneficiaries including distributors, transporters, farmers, bar outlet owners and staff who depend on the brewer’s products for their livelihoods. Mr Ocitti said the expansion work has already begun in Dar es Salaam which is the company’s first of three breweries established in 1996. The other breweries are located in Moshi and Mwanza. The brewer’s move has come at the right time supporting the government efforts to make the country graduate to a semi-industrialised country by 2025 for which contribution of manufacturing to the national economy is expected to reach a minimum of 40 per cent of GDP. Locally, SBL sources barley, maize and sorghum for its beer production and until end of last year, the company had grown its cereals uptake from zero to 15,000 metric tonnes of grain. This is equivalent to 60 per cent of SBL’s total raw materials requirement for beer production per year. Its flagship brand Serengeti Premium Lager was the first beer in Tanzania to be made of 100 malt, a plus that was recently consolidated with the launch of Serengeti Premium Lite, again Tanzania’s first lite beer introduced to the market by the brewer in 2017. The company’s beer brands including Serengeti Premium Lager, Serengeti Lite, Pilsner Lager, Kibo Gold, Guinness and Senator have won numerous awards both locally and internationally in recognition of their quality and brewing mastery. The company also distributes the world’s leading spirit brands such as Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, White Horse, Gordons and Baileys among others. An independent study conducted by Deloitte to assess the impact of SBL on the Tanzanian economy indicate that the company contributed 567bn/-in total value-added last year, representing around one per cent of national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) currently estimated at around 55 billion US dollars (about 127tri/-.