YOUNG Africans hero against Ndanda FC, Patrick Sibomana said his side’s victory on Friday will help to bring back confidence among fellow teammates ahead of their upcoming league matches. The Rwandan scored an all important goal midway in the second half via a well-crafted set piece which was enough to give Yanga their third win of the season at the unpredictable venue Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara to pocket 10 points from five matches. It was also a good start for the caretaker Head Coach, Boniface Mkwasa who took charge the team’s responsibilities following the sacking of former head coach, Mwinyi Zahera. Speaking after the match, Sibomana expressed his satisfaction to score his first Vodacom Premier League goal of the campaign saying it is going to restore confidence in the team. “I am happy to score and I believe this is a good start for me. I pledge to continue scoring in other upcoming league games,” he said. On his part, Mkwasa gave kudos to his charges for executing well his directives despite a one day training session with them. “Today’s performance was achieved according to the game plan. We had to win at all cost to get three points and continue ascending at the top of the table. It was tough as you saw especially putting in mind that Ndanda have a good time but winning is something great for us,” he said. He added that their plan was to hold the ball and launch counterattacks insisting that the hosts always play lungs out when facing Yanga. “Each player who is in the squad is good and what we want to do now is to give them enough play time and I believe that the performance in our next clash will be much better than today (Friday),” Mkwasa, the former national team Taifa Stars coach said. He also disclosed that they will resolve confusion which comes among players on who to take responsibilities of dead balls (free kicks and penalties) after some misunderstandings which emerged shortly between David Molinga and Sibomana before the free kick which resulted to the goal was taken. His counterpart for Ndanda, Shaweji Nawanda conceded that one mistake they made gifted their opponents a winning goal. “We have lost today but the most important thing is to regain our stamina to ensure that we do well in our next clashes. The game was tough, we tried to use our game plan but could not work out for us,” said him. Furthermore, Nawanda revealed that they need to work hard on the striking force saying they are able to create chances but scoring goals remain a big obstacle.