AFRICA’S leading producer of children’s edutainment, Ubongo, hosted its second annual stakeholder event, themed Storytelling for Change recently in Westlands, Nairobi. The event brought together professionals from different industries to use design thinking in the process of creating impactful stories. Speaking at the event in Nairobi, Ubongo’s Kenya Country Representative, Daisy Kambuni said, “At Ubongo, we create engaging and locally relevant digital content for learners in Africa. Our mission is to transform learning for the 440 million kids in Africa through localized education on accessible technologies, opening the door to a future of effective learning. We use stories to create positive and impactful messaging for kids, and tonight, we gave you a glimpse of this human centered design thinking process,” The event drew representation from various key stakeholders in the social enterprise, education and development sectors including policymakers, innovators and development partners. These stakeholders were engaged through workshops, discussions, and presentations. The framework was built around four key objectives: Youth Employment, Agriculture and Food Security, Conservation and Girls’ Education. The aim was to find out, through storytelling and conversation, what drives and motivates organizations, and how they use these narratives to achieve goals. Ubongo’s Chief Business Officer, Doreen Kessy added, “Stories are important because it is how we put ideas into the world, and it is also a good way for people to self-reflect. Stories shape our perspectives, our dreams, our identity, our actions and eventually-outcomes. The question we should all be asking ourselves is, what kind of stories are we telling? Are our stories shaping our communities for the better? If we all start thinking that way, we will make a positive difference in our communities.” Ubongo is Africa’s leading producer of kids’ edutainment, with its programs running through Tanzania’s national broadcaster, TBC on a daily basis. As a non-profit social enterprise, they create fun, localised and multi-platform educational content that helps kids learn and leverage their learning to change their lives.