CRDB Bank and Kigamboni District on Wednesday launched interest free mobile phone digital micro-loans for micro entrepreneurs with ‘machinga’ identity. The loans, issued to an individual or a group starts as low as 10,000/-to 500,000/-payable in three months and are collateral free through Simbanking Deputy Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Josephat Kandege said Kigamboni was a starting point for the Jiwezeshe loan products before spread out to other areas across the country. “This is just a beginning of the government initiative to up-bring low business carders into proper entrepreneurship platform,” Mr Kandege said. The borrower may start by borrowing small amount but later graduating to proper loan service issued by CRDB after crossing 500,000/-level. CRDB Managing Director Abdulmajid Nsekela said they introduced the new loan, Jiwezeshe Loans, to uplift micro entrepreneur capital size and their business wellbeing. “Kigamboni District is a Launchpad for this service country wide. The only collateral needed is Machinga ID introduced by the president” late last year. The intention of issuing the loan was to add value of the Machinga ID, where more than 1.8 million have been issued and the lender has set aside 10bn/-for the initiative. Kigamboni DC, Sarah Masafiri said so far 3400 micro-entrepreneurs have registered for the loan through CRDB’S SimAccount platform. BoT Deputy Governor, Dr Bernard Kibesse directed CRDB to increase the loan ceiling rate to enable entrepreneurs access larger capital that way raise tax payers base. “I commend the bank to be the first to issue interest-free loan and without collateral,” Dr Kibesse said. The Deputy Governor said the central bank has lowered its discount rate to 9 per cent while they cut down statutory deposit from 20 per cent to 7.0per cent and expect banks to follow suit. Health Deputy Minister and Kigamboni Member of Parliament (MP), Dr Faustine Ndungulile said the municipal so far issued 517m/- loans to micro entrepreneuers and another 300m/-are expected in due course. “But on top of that I want the money municipal to allocate special area for Machinga,” he said, adding the complex should be arranged per entrepreneur business nature. CRDB’S Entrepreneurship Business Manager, Dr Godwin Mwaimu said the loan has no interest but attract a loan service cost of 500/-for up to 50,000/-and 1,000/-for up to 150,000/-. Above this amount the service cost is merely 2,000/-. “Borrower is graduating to another loan amount level after repaying the first amount in two months,” Dr Mwaimu said. Prof Temu encouraged micro lenders to refrain from shackles of being afraid of taking loans since it’s their passport to reach another business level. “Let’s agree to change by taking those loans and uplift our businesses,” he said. The bank used Kigamboni as platform to understand Machinga business behavior, their financial need and their payment patterns. Also other challenging including their business skill shortfall through a two day clinic.