THE former Young Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera disclosed that his refusal to let go his Assistant Coach, Noel Mwandila for Boniface Mkwasa might be the reason behind his sacking. Yanga announced on Tuesday about dismantling the team’s entire technical bench and named Mkwasa as caretaker coach until the new coach is found. But speaking yesterday in an exclusive interview, Zahera narrated that he received a phone call while in Egypt for the return CAF Confederation Cup game against Pyramids FC from the club’s chairman, Mshindo Msolla that he should part ways with Mwandila and instead work with Mkwasa as his right hand man. “I vehemently rejected his plea because I am the one who works closely with him (Mwandila) and I know what he is capable of doing. I told him (Msolla) that if Mwandila goes, I was ready to leave too,” he said. Adding, Zahera said it was impossible for him to work with Mkwasa saying he too has a respectable coaching career hence he (Mkwasa) cannot fully undertake his directives. “The contract I signed with Yanga says I should be the one choosing the person to work with as my assistant coach, putting that in mind, they (management) failed to adhere to the terms available in the contract,” he said. According to him, Mwandila’s contract was due to end on December 5 this year while his was set to expire in September next year. He also revealed that on the same day, during the telephone conversion with the chairman who he said phoned him from Nairobi, Kenya, Msolla assured Zahera that he had 100 percent backing from the team’s management regardless the outcome from the Pyramids match. “There was no indication that things will end this way. Everything was fine but I believe that there are some key figures at the club who have forced this situation to happen,” he said. Reacting further, Zahera recalled an incident which happened in Botswana during the second leg match of the CAF Champions League against Township Rollers. “Despite some Yanga officials going there early before the squad, they arranged that we should board the same bus used by our opponents something which players protested a lot such that I had to use my money to hire another bus,” he said. Again, he said when they went to Zambia to play against Zesco United, they had to pay for an artificial training ground for two days which cost 4,000 USD and he paid the amount. “I have been paying for food and transport for the team on many occasions. I am saying all these not because of the situation at hand but I want people to know that there are many problems at Yanga which require actions to resemble the team,” said Zahera. He then made it clear that all the expenses he did for the club will be refunded as per agreement between the two sides.