TANZANIA has significantly succeeded in the fight against illicit drugs, with UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) showing heroin imports and abuse dropped by 90 per cent last year. However, cultivation and abuse of marijuana and khat remain a serious challenge in the country, according to Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and Disabled, Jenista Mhagama. Minister Mhagama, flanked by Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority’s (DCEA) acting Commissioner General Wilbert Kaji, made the remarks before reporters after tabling in the National Assembly a report on the status of illicit drugs in Tanzania for 2018. Apart from the successes in curbing importation of industrial illicit drugs, particularly heroine, Ms Mhagama said the country now faces a challenge of fighting locally grown drugs— marijuana and khat—which are cultivated in many parts of the country. The minister named six leading regions in the drug cultivation as Mara, Tanga, Kagera, Ruvuma, Morogoro and Arusha. Last year, security organs in collaboration with DCEA and members of the public apprehended 1,186 suspects with 24.3 tons of marijuana and 8.97 tons of khat in various parts of the country. “During the same year, 7,593 cases involving 10,979 suspects were filed at various courts across the country,” she explained, adding that 16.94 kilogrammes of heroin were seized, with 744 suspects arrested. Apart from fighting the importation, cultivation and use of illicit drugs, the minister said the government is investing in rehabilitation of drug addicts at six recuperation clinics in Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Mbeya and Dodoma. As of December last year, there were over 8,000 drugs addicts receiving free rehabilitation services at the centres. The addicts are administered with methadone, a therapy used for maintenance of dependence on drugs and for chronic pain management. Ms Mhagama said the government will continue enhancing enforcement of the laws and regulations to further control importation and use of abusive drugs. She said various international conventions have been ratified to boost global efforts against drugs. DCEA Commissioner for Prevention and Treatment Dr Peter Mfisi explained that Tanzania, through donor support, imports 300 kilogrammes of Methadone, annually. Dr Mfisi said Tanzania currently imports the therapy from India at between 650 and 700 US dollars per kilogramme. “Previously, we used to import Methadone from Canada at 1,500 dollars per kilogramme. We now get them at cheaper prices. One kilogramme of Methadone can be administered to between 600 and 700 patients,” he explained. Available reports indicate that at least 188 million people across the globe were abusing drugs in 2017, representing 3.8 per cent of the world population aged between 15 and 64 years. The report, quoting UNODC figures of 2016, shows that 13.8 million people across 130 countries aged between 15 and 16 years admitted to having used marijuana at least once in six months. The world drugs report 2019 indicates that 271 million people, 5.5 per cent of the world population aged between 15 and 64 years, died due to drug abuse.