UNITED Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) has praised Tanzania over proper execution of donor-funded projects that focus on improvement of lives of wananchi through force account system. “We are satisfied with implementation of projects and spending of funds we grant to the country to finance the projects after the government introduced the force account,” Head of UNCDF Tanzania Peter Malika remarked. The UNCDF makes public and private finance work for the poor in the world’s 47 least developed countries. With its capital mandate and instruments, UNCDF offers “last mile” finance models that unlock public and private resources, especially at the domestic level, reducing poverty and supporting local economic development. Over the weekend, in Dar es Salaam, the UNCDF organised a forum to discuss how local finance drives Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) achievements. Mr Malika said UNCDF mobilises funds but it also advises the local governments to inject more resources in financing the projects. In Tanzania, UNCDF works with 14 local governments, which it has helped to execute projects for, among others, value addition to agricultural produce and create income-generating activities. “We provide technical assistance to local authorities through preparation and funding of projects,” he explained. The Government had also seen positive impacts of the force account procurement method in implementation of various projects in the country to ensure cost-effectiveness and value for money in works. In September, when opening the 2019 joint annual general meeting of Engineers Registration Board (ERB), Contractors Registration Board (CRB) and Architects and Q uantity Surveyors Registration Board (AQ SRB), President John Magufuli defended the government preference for force account. President Magufuli said there were some local contractors who operated against their professional norms and country’s laws and regulations by inflating estimation costs of constructions. For instance, the government spent only 184bn/- to build 352 health centres through the force account while it could spend over 1trl/- if opted for local contractors. Dr Magufuli said the problem with local experts was that they wanted to maximise profit and making huge estimates in each price of the item for construction. Meanwhile, director for local development finance with the UNCDF, Mr David Jackson, argued that for the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to bring impacts to the locals, the government has to invest in infrastructures that have effects to locals. “GDP growth doesn’t mean that it is translating to locals, but investing in social-economic infrastructures at local level real means development to the locals,” he stated.