THE shilling has continued to experience strong and steady moments during the quarter ending September bolstered by agriculture inflows. According to NMB Market Digest, the resilience was a result of inflows from the sale of agricultural commodities mainly cotton, coffee and tobacco together with inflows from interregional trade at border regions. The local pair opened the quarter at TZS 2,300 and consolidated within a range of 2,297-2,302 throughout the period under reference. This was in contrast to the wider shilling range seen in the second quarter where it got tight moments especially in the last month with the local unit trading between 2,299 and 2,298 to the dollar which is where it closed. The volumes traded in the Interbank Foreign Exchange Market (IFEM) increased to 450.39 million US dollars during the third quarter up from the 260.07 million US dollars traded in the preceding quarter marking a 73 per cent increase in activities. This was a result of continued improvement in price discovery and elevated liquidity levels in the Interbank Foreign Exchange Market similar to what was observed during the second quarter. The Bank of Tanzania (BoT) continued its role of maintaining orderly market conditions and managing liquidity by participating as a net buyer in the interbank market. Expectations for the coming quarter is for the shilling to strengthen on the back of reduced US dollar demand with end of year tax obligations coupled with inflows from the cashew season which in previous years has brought in around 500 million US dollars into the market. The 2019/20 season’s auctions started last week and is expected to bring more USD flows to the market leading to moderate appreciation of the local unit. Moreover, the overnight interbank cash market volumes in the quarter under review presented a 54 per cent decrease in comparison to the previous quarter. The total traded volume amounted to 1.3tri/-which is lower than 2.8tri/-in the previous quarter. This is explained by high market liquidity which meant less borrowing and lending activities in the overnight interbank cash market Excess cash in the market mainly from statutory minimum reserve revision effects and treasury bills maturities that missed out in auctions pushed interest rates in the market lower to average at 4.85 per cent lower than an average of 5.32 per cent in the second quarter. Given the current liquidity level prevailing in the market and current yields trend, it is expected that both TZS liquidity and yields in the overnight interbank cash market to remain fairly stable towards the year end.