CRDB, the largest bank in the country, has become the first bank in East and Central Africa to receive the United Nations Green Climate Fund (GCF) accreditation. The lender, said it is ready to fund up to 250 million US dollars (600bn/-) for a single project. The bank was picked on Wednesday after the 24th GCF Board Meeting held in Songdo, South Korea as the financial intermediary for the implementation of green financing in Tanzania. This followed an extensive due-diligence assessment, conducted by UN’s GCF to ascertain the CRDB’s preparedness in managing climate change programmes. CRDB Group CEO and Managing Director, Abdulmajid Nsekela said the endorsement marks an important milestone in the lender’s history and that of the country. “We are proud of this achievement and excited because it gives us a unique opportunity to make a huge impact in Tanzania,” Nsekela said through a release. GCF Director of Private Sector Facility, Ayaan Adam, said CRDB’s accreditation is highly merited, owing to the bank’s portfolio strength and extensive client base within Tanzania and Burundi. “CRDB is a very strong bank because it has a wide reach and presence, extending to two countries. This means the bank is aware of the realities of what is happening in the country,” Ms Adam said. CRDB becomes the third commercial bank in Africa to obtain this accreditation, after Ecobank Ghana and Attijariwafa Bank of Morocco. Accredited entities carryout a range of activities that usually include the development of funding proposals and the management and monitoring of projects and programmes. Multiple projects can be funded simultaneously. “The bank is particularly keen to support the government initiatives in energy, transport and infrastructure, industrialisation, health and wellness, food security, safe cities and environment,” Mr Nsekela explained. The lender said they’re ready to work with GCF to support both public and private entities in implementing sustainable development projects, through provision of affordable loans, guarantees and equity. “With this endorsement, we are confident that CRDB will be able to finance different vital green projects to the tune of up to 250 million US dollars per single project funding proposal,” he said. The CEO is upbeat that the implementation of sustainable initiatives will be an important step for the bank’s Corporate Social Investment (CSI) approach and will go a long way in strengthening its position as a leading innovative bank in the region. CRDB Bank appreciated the continued support gained from the government—particularly nominating the bank for the accreditation and cooperation extended to CRDB by GCF to ensure that they sail smoothly to a successful accreditation.