MAINLANDS side Kilimanjaro Queens have one task today, to defeat Kenya’s Harambee Starlets and claim their third successive CECAFA Women Senior Challenge Cup at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. The two teams face off in this year’s grand finale of the eight team tournament in a game which is expected to be tough, thrilling and worth watching. A hard earned 1-0 triumph over resilient Uganda’s Crested Queens on Saturday was the green light for the country’s envoys to cruise all the way in the final and set a date with Kenya. Captain Asha Rashid netted late to put her side through into the final that will kick off at 4 pm. Uganda and Burundi will fight for the third slot finish in the match that will kick off at lunch time. Asha connected well a neat cross deep into the box by Mwanahamisi Omary, who has been a key player for the home ladies. Kilimanjaro Queens enter into the game with a perfect record of not conceding any goal in their past four matches during the competition, which saw them scoring 21 goals. It all started with a 9-0 victory over South Sudan in their opening group A clash, before hammering Burundi 4 -0, Z anzibar 7 -0 and a latest 1-0 victory against Uganda. So far, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has described the tournament as a big success lauding fans who have been flocking the venue in big numbers to cheer their teams. “For us, we are grateful to the way football fans in the country have embraced the tournament. It is a big plus and we want more people to turn up again on Monday (today) in the finals,” said the federation’s Technical Director Oscar Mirambo. He added that even if the competition could have been staged well with quality football display from the teams, without the presence of the audience, it could have been deemed as unsuccessful. “I urge people to come early on the final day because it is possible that the carrying capacity of the venue can exceed hence those who will arrive first will easily be allowed inside to watch the finale before the gates are closed,” Mirambo said. Furthermore, Mirambo called on fans to decorate the venue with their national team colours and rally behind Kilimanjaro Q ueens from the start to the end of the match. Both teams finished top in their respective groups with the home team topping group A, while Kenya also emerged group B leaders.