MEMBERS of Parliament have passed a motion to recognise the distinguished administration of President John Magufuli on improving social services and execution of mega infrastructure projects during the past four years since he assumed office in 2015. Having deliberated on the motion tabled by Bukoba Rural MP Jason Rweikiza (CCM) shortly before the adjournment of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly on Friday evening, the Parliament acknowledged President Magufuli’s performance as distinguished and outstanding. In his motion, Mr Rweikiza cited some of the achievements by the government as increased revenue collections to 1.7trl/- at present from just 850bn/- per month in 2015 as well as trimming wasteful expenditure of public funds. The litany of achievements under President Magufuli include disbursement of 987.5bn/- for free primary and secondary education in public schools countrywide. In the health sector, Mr Rweikiza praised the government for increased allocation of funds to procure medicines from just 31bn/- in 2015 to over 300bn/- at present. During the period under review, there have been significant achievements in provision of health services at the country’s major public hospitals - Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and its affiliates Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) and the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI). The list of accomplishments also includes construction of a record 69 health centres and 352 dispensaries across the country. Through electrification projects, over 7,000 villages have been connected to the national grid while the country’s capacity to generate electricity increased from 1,375 megawatts in 2015 to 1,602 megawatts at present. Mr Rweikiza noted further that the bold move by President John Magufuli to undertake the mega Julius Nyerere hydropower plant along Rufiji River will enable the country to add 2,115 megawatts to the national grid. Since assuming power, Dr Magufuli has also presided over execution of major infrastructure projects such as construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro and its extension to Dodoma. Expansion of Dar es Salaam Port and upgrading of Mtwara and Tanga ports, plus construction of the magnificent Terminal III at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), have similarly won the Head of State accolades. He also praised the move by President Magufuli’s transfer of the capital city from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma where a total of 7,287 civil servants have so far shifted to the new seat of the government. Speaking after the motion was passed, Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai, took a swipe at prophets of doom who have been faulting achievements attained by the government under Dr Magufuli. “Every clear sighted person can attest to what has been achieved during the past four years. Days for fraud and misuse of funds are no more. “Dr Magufuli has also fulfilled the long dream of transferring the capital city from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma. This has been on the drawing board since the 1970s,” he pointed out matter-of-factly. Speaker Ndugai furthermore pointed to the fact that the government had ended conflicts between livestock keepers and farmers which were previously rampant in many parts of the country. Contributing to the motion, Ulanga MP, Mr Goodluck Mlinga (CCM) showered praises on President Magufuli on his stewardship in improving social welfare of Tanzanians in social services. The youthful MP praised the fifth phase government for putting emphasis on issues which affect the people, such as healthcare, education and infrastructure projects. The views were echoed by Iramba West MP, Mr Mwigulu Nchemba (CCM), who described Dr Magufuli as a leader who has played a crucial role in eradicating the vicious cycle-of poverty. “President Magufuli will leave a legacy for the current and future generations through development projects being implemented in many parts of the world,” he commented. Ilala MP Musa Azan ‘Zungu’ labelled President Magufuli as a ‘Man of all seasons’ who will go down the history of Tanzania for his outstanding leadership.