THE state-run power utility, Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), has entered into a five-year agreement with Afrique Live Power Line Maintenance T and D Limited to train engineers in live line maintenance to ensure that power is maintained without putting off the lines. “We want to see investors don’t complain about power interruptions at this time when the government has launched a vigorous campaign to attract more investors in the industrial sector to realise the country’s 2025 Vision of making Tanzania a middle income nation,” Afrique Live Power Line Maintenance T and D Limited Managing Director Donald Mwakamele told reporters in Morogoro over the weekend. Under the five-year agreement, the Afrique Live Power Line Maintenance T and D Limited will train 40 female electrical engineers to be sponsored by the Contractors Registration Board (CRB). “I was outside the country practising live line technology in Botswana and Zambia. The contract that I have signed with TANESCO is to ensure availability of electricity all the time to boost industrial production as part of implementing the national Industrial development agenda,” Mwakamele said. Our mission is to achieve high quality production through application of modern management expertise and the use of latest technology,” he explained. Tanzania, East Africa’s second largest economy now entering the middle income status, will be the first in East and Central Africa to start using the live line technology. Investment in innovative technologies is aimed at boosting reliability of power supply by minimising interruptions. The launch of the Live Line Maintenance Programme involves carrying out maintenance on energised lines such as changing rotten poles, jumpers and conductors and cutting trees encroaching on electric power lines which are often disrupted during the rainy season. About 60% of TANESCO’s interruptions arise from vegetation management and that investing in this initiative means that the utility will be able to carry out nearly all maintenance works without having to switch customers off. Afrique Live Power Line Maintenance T and D Limited has started training 40 female engineers to operate 220kv to 450kv distribution lines. According to Mwakamele, training a single engineer to operate a live line maintenance can cost 500m/-. “It’s very expensive to train live line engineers. I am appealing to stakeholders to assist this ambitious project. “Our company performs live line maintenance on energized circuits up to 33kv busing modern bucket trucks. We are also changing jumpers and replacing jumper connections, hot spot repairs on lines, replace other apparatus, cut out a switch, change straight line to dead end and many more,” he explained. A senior official of Stars General Insurance Company, Doreen Mfalamagoha, whose firm will provide insurance cover to the 40 female engineers working on the project said: “Our insurance firm assured these women engineers that they are offered insurance and protection whenever involved in an accident or become sick. We are here to assist them since they are doing this for the benefit of our nation,” she said. Live line project female engineers, Lightness Salema, Dainess Uwezo and Milka Manyasi, said they were grateful for the opportunity. “We want to partner with TANESCO to make repairs without switching off electricity. This is a very important opportunity for Tanzania,” said Salema, a 2002 graduate of the University of Dar es Salaam. On her part, Manyasi, a St Joseph University electric engineering graduate, said some people believe that the task is so difficult and is only suitable for men. “The fact is this task is very easy,” she said. However, in electrical engineering, live-line working, also known as hotline maintenance, is the maintenance of electrical equipment, often operating at high voltage, while the equipment is energised. Although this is more hazardous for people than working on electrical equipment with the power off, live-line maintenance techniques are used in the electric power distribution industry to avoid the disruption and high economic costs of having to turn off power to customers to perform essential periodic maintenance on transmission lines and other equipment. The first techniques for live-line working were developed in the early years of the 20th century, and both equipment and work methods were later refined to deal with increasingly higher voltages. In the 1960s, methods were developed in the laboratory to enable field workers to come into direct contact with high voltage lines. Such methods can be applied to enable safe work at the highest transmission voltages.