ABOUT 193 obstetric emergency surgeries have been successfully performed at two public health centres in Rukwa Region in six months, thanks to medical equipment for operation theatres donated by the Japanese government through Benjamin Mkapa Foundation (BMF). Geographically Mwimbi health facility is located in Kalambo District and serves more than 73,000 residents, while Kirando health facility is situated on the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District and serves 27 villages and nine satellite dispensaries. Nkasi District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Hashim Mvogogo, told the ‘Daily News’ during an exclusive interview in Namanyere that the success story was made possible after the Japanese government had donated medical equipment through BMF for improving maternal and newborn health services. DMO further noted that following the Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (CEmONC), the number of pregnant mothers had considerably increased from the previous 189 to 150 per month which was equivalent to between five and seven mothers per day . “The medical equipment valued at 68.9m/- was donated by the Japanese government through BMF and was installed in a Kirando health facility theatre on May 25, this year, and until November 12 about 131 mothers have undergone successful emergency obstetric operation and their lives and of the newborns’ have been saved. Likewise in the period under review 46 patients underwent non-obstetric emergency operation… Currently the health facility is receiving a big number of referral patients from nine satellite dispensaries and some from neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Zambia, Burundi and Rwanda,” noted the DMO. According to DMO, the number of patients referred to the district hospital from the health facility has dropped significantly and only one patient is given referral permission to the district health facility. Equally four members of staff from the health facility have been trained by BMF on how to efficiently handle the donated medical equipment, including universal anaesthetic machine (UAM) which has a built-in oxygen concentrator that produces its own oxygen in addition to providing standard connec-tors for cylinder, pipeline and portable oxygen. For his part, the medical doctor in charge of Mwimbi health facility, Dr Sospeter Mpuya, told this paper that after installation of the donated medical equipment in the operating theatre services of CEmONC have been improved significantly as about 62 mothers who had undergone cesarean section only a baby was reported dead. BMF Programme Manager for Service Delivery, Dr Adeline Saguti Nyamwihura, said the installation of medical equipment would improve CEmONC at both health facilities. She named the medical equipment supported by Japanese Embassy in Tanzania being universal anaesthesia machine, autoclave, theatre table, oxygen concentrator, suction machine and operation lamp each to both health facilities valued at 139m/- for both health facilities.