ATTORNEY General (AG) Professor Adelardus Kilangi has dismissed as baseless and deceptive claims that the appointment of Charles Kichere as Controller and Auditor General (CAG) is unconstitutional. President John Magufuli on Sunday appointed the former Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Commissioner General to replace Professor Musa Assad whose oneterm office tenure expired on Monday midnight. Professor Kilangi told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam that people debating the newly introduced changes in the national audit office over the illegal replacement of Professor Assad are not only misrepresenting the laws but also mixing up things. The issues relate to the appointments and the powers that go with the appointment; the period and time to work and the work limit due to age, said the AG, adding: “These three things should not be mixed up.” He explained that the existence of the CAG is addressed in the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania under Article 143 (1) while the general authority for appointment of leaders constitutionally is vested on the president under Article 36 (2) of the constitution. The specific authority for the appointment of the CAG is on the President of the United Republic of Tanzania under Section 4 (1) of the Public Audit Act. “In accordance with interpretation of the Laws Act, any nominating authority also carries the power to suspend the appointment under Section 48 (1) of the Act. It is clear that as with the nomination, the termination of the nomination must go on the basis of the law,” he said. Professor Kilangi further stated that the term of office of the CAG is five years under Section 6 (1) of the Public Audit Act and CAG may be extended for another five years to remain in office. “The law states that the controller and auditor general may be extended for five years. It does not say he should be given an additional five years, but it can be extended,” the AG argued. He said to continue with his duties after the end of the first five-year term, the president must extend the CAG second term through reappointment or issuance of a continuation letter. “Otherwise (the CAG) cannot continue to serve his office for the second term. The aim is also to ensure that the CAG does not serve in that office for over ten years,” Professor Kilangi said. He further explained that in accordance with Article 144 (2) of the Constitution, the CAG cannot be removed from his duties as ‘within’ the first or second term of five years, except for specific reasons and the procedure is set out in Article 144 (3) of the Constitution. “The termination of the CAG duties in accordance with Articles 144 (2) and 144 (3) applies only if he has not completed the first or second term of five years, it doesn’t apply if the office occupant has completed the first five years,” he said. Professor Kilangi noted that the correct understanding of the law is that when the CAG has reached the end of the first or second term of five years, this is not termination of his obligations but an end of the term. On the age limit, the AG clarified that, according to the constitution, the original limitation of working as CAG is 60 years. “But, the constitution allows for another age in accordance with another law enacted by parliament in accordance with Article 144 (1). According to the Public Audit Act, the age limit is 65,” he clarified. He explained that as with all laws for public servants, the law limits the CAG age, with 65 years being the highest age limit. “This is not the age that the law has set for the CAG to reach. It is the age, which once attained by the CAG, one has to relinquish the position even if his or her first five-year term has not expired,” he said. Professor Kilangi cited an example of the appointed CAG at 62 but at 65 he must quit his responsibilities even though his five-year term has not expired. He stated that it’s untrue claiming that the CAG should reach the age of 65 years before surrendering his office. “That is a matter of mixing appointment, the legal time for the CAG to perform his duties and termination of his responsibilities due to age limit,” he said. Such legal position comes in the wake of some politicians, particularly ACT-Wazalendo leader Zitto Kabwe, appearing on social media and accusing President Magufuli of violating the constitution and law through the appointment of the new CAG. Meanwhile, BERNARD LUGONGO reports that the newly appointed CAG Kichere has pledged establishment of strong team to effectively oversee spending of public funds and fortify working relations with parliament. Mr Kichere narrated his plans as his predecessor Professor Mussa Assad handed over to him the working tools at the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT) in Dar es Salaam, just a day after being sworn-in by President Magufuli on Monday. “The good thing is that I had been in the TRA and I know the difficulties of revenue collections, I will therefore be tough in protecting revenues,” Dr Kichere stated, further explaining that he will ensure that public funds are well spent to attain the desired national development. “I understand that workers at the low ranks do big part of this job as mine will be going through reports they had prepared and approving them, so I promise to build a good teamwork with them,” he vowed. Both Kichere and Professor Assad explained their long-existed good relations since in the 1990’s at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM). Mr Kichere expressed optimism that he will be getting pieces of advice from Professor Assad who has served in the office for the past five years. “I knew Professor Assad in 1994 when I was a first-year student at the university, he was my lecturer and since then I never lost contact with him, therefore I will be calling him at times whenever I need advice,” he said. The new CAG underscored the need to heighten working relationship with the national assembly, arguing that the two institutions depended on each other. “I will sustain good relationship with the parliament because the CAG submits audit reports to the legislators whose roles include overseeing the government,” he noted. Dr Kichere’s statement followed remarks by Prof Assad who gave a piece of an advance to his successor. Professor Assad advised his successor to continue building capacity of NAOT employees by linking the office with professional institutions outside the country. Speaking over his next move, Professor Assad said he looks forward to being a peasant. “From here I’m going to farm, I like eating what I had planted and harvested. I get proud out of it. I have been sacrificing my time at the farm for the past two months and I will be at the village, visiting the cities if there are people needing me,” he said.