GALLANT Tanzanian ladies, who defied the odds to win the East and Central African Golf Championship for the third time in a row, deserve more than what the countries gave them in terms of honour and recognition. The country must do something to decorate them since they have defied odds, and deserve to be a symbol of valour because they have outclassed and outplayed players from countries reputed as golf greats. Led by Madina Iddi, a lady who is ranked number one in Africa at the moment, others; Hawa Wanyeche, Angel Eaton and Neema Olomi, all have helped Tanzania to stamp authority in golf, a sport for high class ‘westernized residents’. Tanzanian ladies won the first title in Uganda in 2009 when first edition of the biannual tournament was launched and retained it two years later when Tanzania hosted it in 2011 at People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club. Hence winning it in Uganda this month earned their third title. Madina, whose brilliance helped much Tanzania to shine in golf, was also named the top player of the tournament for second time after she did the same at TPDF Lugalo course. Madina proved to everyone that she is above all in Africa at the moment. Two years ago she won individual top title during the All Africa Challenge Trophy in Accra, Ghana as well she helped Tanzania finish second behind South Africa at the prestigious biannual event. Their feat has baffled many, including Tanzanians themselves due to the fact that our country has been regarded as the least ‘westernized’ in East, Central Africa and Southern Africa. The brave golfers haven’t demanded much from their country for what they have done or been doing, but taking from what they said upon their arrival from Uganda, their wish is just to meet President John Magufuli and present him the title. From what they said, our brave ladies seem to seek recognition and would be pleased to the President leading Tanzanians in recognising their feat. What they want to tell their government, Tanzanians and golf stakeholders is to inspire others while using the platform to address several challenges that impede development of the sport in the country. While we congratulate the ladies, officials from Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) and sponsors of the team’s trip, TPDF Lugalo Club we urge the government to continue supporting golf and golfers while we advised them to continue winning other titles after the regional one.