TANZANIA’S leading digital lifestyle company-- Tigo, on Thursday introduced the first most affordable 4G phone with the aim to provide 4G internet for everyone in the country. The 4G enabled smart feature phone dubbed “Kitochi 4G Smart” will retail at 49,000/- and comes with applications such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and YouTube. Speaking during the launch in Dar es Salaam, Tigo’s Chief Commercial Officer, Tarik Boudiaf, said, “As the pioneers with the biggest 4G network in Tanzania since 2014 we are breaking yet another barrier to enable and avail everyone with the most affordable 4G phone to be part of our fast-growing digital family. We are proud of continuing advancing digital inclusion agenda in the country” Boudiaf further added that the price of the 4G enabled devices has been a hindrance for most Tanzanians to enjoy the benefits of 4G internet. With the introduction of “Kitochi 4G Smart” in the market which comes with Free Facebook for 3 months customers will access the biggest social network in the world as Tigo is committed to ensuring that no Tanzanian is left behind on the digital journey. Tigo’s Head of Products & Services, David Umoh present at the event said, “Kitochi 4G Smart cements our commitment to provide our customers from all walks of life with what is the best and most affordable for them. We believe that with this launch there’s no reason for anyone not to enjoy the benefits of internet on the biggest 4G network. We believe that, Kitochi 4G Smart will further accelerate internet access in Tanzania and provide information and knowledge which will assist to unlock social and economic opportunities to everyone.” Tigo has earned innovative accolade by continuously providing customer centric solutions that have changed the digital landscape in Tanzania. Kitochi 4G Smart is another first from Tigo in addition to for instance the first Smartphone in Swahili, Free Facebook in Swahili, Tigo Pesa App and Tigo Mobile App. Furthermore, Tigo has the biggest 4G network in Tanzania making it the strongest player in digital lifestyle transformation. It comes with built-in apps including Facebook, WhatsApp, YouTube, twitter, Gmail, Google map, and much more available in kaiOS App store.