YOUNG Africans caretaker Coach Boniface Mkwasa said their focus is to collect other maximum points in their next Mainland Premier League match against KMC on November 23rd this year. Yanga, who posted a slim 1-0 victory over Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara last Friday, opted to remain in the region after the game and played two friendly matches as one way to prepare for the incoming league matches. It was their first victory of the season without the then Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera, who was shown an exit door together with the team’s entire technical bench and was a good start for Mkwasa. The triumph saw the Jangwani Street side claiming 10 points from five matches to sit on 15th slot at the 20- team league table. “Immediately after our game against Ndanda, we decided to stay put and play two friendlies during this period of international break. Our focus is to win in our next match and continue pocketing vital points,” he said. Moreover, Mkwasa said apart from practicing, they also wanted to present themselves to their fans who reside in Mtwara. “As you know, we have big fan base in remote areas and these people just see their team via televisions that is why we saw it necessary to come over and enable them watch their team live on their own territory,” he said. In his words, the team’s Marketing Officer Dismas Ten lauded the club’s management for reaching that stage saying it clearly shows that Yanga belongs to citizens. “Despite the fact that most players are on injury list and failed to come here for Ndanda clash, we have managed to make our fans here happy and I am sure that they will always remember this day,” he said. However, things have not been that good for KMC, who are still struggling to impress in the league despite finishing on top four last season. The Kinondoni based team has just won two games in their eight opening encounters during the unfolding campaign after registering two draws and four defeats. The unconvincing results probably are among the reasons which led to the firing of Ugandan coach Jackson Mayanja, who was hired this season to replace Etienne Ndayiragije. Even though KMC find it hard on the pitch, they will soon become one of few clubs in the country to own a stadium in response to the team’s Chairman Benjamin Sitta, who already disclosed that construction of the modern stadium will start soon in Dar es Salaam. KMC’s top four finish last term saw them making their maiden appearance in CAF Confederation Cup.