FOUR years ago during his campaigns for the presidency, Dr John Magufuli vowed to extricate low-income earners from grips of poverty, pledging to ensure the prompt provision of social services such as healthcare, water and free elementary education, It is four years now, let’s take a snapshot of several accomplishments in the health sector. The country has so far witnessed an improved healthcare delivery system, which employs modern technology at major referral hospitals, reduced cases of patients’ referrals abroad, medical breakthroughs and grand plans for Universal Health Coverage (UHC). During President Magufuli four years in office, Tanzania has seen for the first time, kidney transplant surgery was performed successfully at the country’s national referral hospital, Muhimbili. But then again for the first time in 24 years, doctors were able to separate conjoined twins. The Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) Executive Director, Prof Lawrence Museru, has since told the media that the facility was laying the groundwork for liver transplant surgery, the move expected to reduce costs by 50 per cent. The report has it that, one successful transplant costs about 100mil/- usually directed at medical facilities in India. In the period, local public hospitals were now capable of offering quality medical services for complex cases of Kidney failure, cardiovascular, cancer, cochlea implantation and others. The government says it was confident the number of Tanzanians seeking specialised medical services abroad will drastically reduce. According to Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu, Tanzania was currently raising local capacity to handle special cases in which the number of patients sent abroad has dropped from 550 to 350 annually. “When I joined the ministry, I had a list of many patients seeking treatment abroad but we have managed to cut down the number by 95 per cent, patients are now receiving treatment within the country under the care of our experts,” she noted. Another area is Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) in which the government used to spend more than 100m/- to each patient referred abroad for treatment and Tanzania specialist handled mere 35 per cent of heart surgery-related treatment in the country by 2015 but the rate has in the years increased to 90 per cent. In 2015, JKCI attended to 624 heart patients but the number has increased to 2,056 in 2018, leading to reduction of referrals abroad and boosting the country’s capacity in providing surgery services. On kidney transplant, by June 2019, MNH had conducted 43 kidney transplants, 339 cases of interventional radiology, while inserting 21 Cochlear implants to children. With the purpose to extend dialysis services in the country and reduce the number of patients who travel to Tanzania commercial city for such services, on June 2019 the government received 62 dialysis machines worth 1.5bn/-, a donation from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Used to filter a patient’s blood to remove excess water and waste products when the kidneys are damaged, dysfunctional, or missing, the machines are set to also help the government in her efforts to curb Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in the country. Out of the 275 machines that are available in the country, 42 were at MNH. Others were in other regions with big referral hospitals such as Mwanza and Mbeya. Another milestone achievement recorded by the government is the availability of advanced machines for the treatment of cancer-related complications at Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI), the move has also reduced the number of patients seeking treatment abroad. Health experts at the ORCI supposed that the number of patients referred abroad for treatment has decreased by over 70 per cent in the past 30 months, as the government disbursed 9.5bn/-, that were used to procure two modern machines that use 3D technology for cancer treatment. The availability of modern machines has also helped to reduce waiting time for patients to start treatment from 12 weeks to less than four weeks. Patients were in 2015 compelled to wait for up to 12 weeks before commencing treatment but the institute has managed to reduce waiting time to six weeks and now they can wait for less than four weeks. ORCI Director of Cancer Prevention Services, Dr Crispin Kahesa advised that availability of the modern machines and training of more cancer experts will further result in a reduced number of abroad referred patients. In 2015/2016, 146 cancer patients were referred abroad but the number declined to 44 in the 2017/2018 fiscal year, with only ten patients referred between July and December 2018. MNH is yet to record another achievement as it is set to become the first health facility in East Africa to offer bone marrow transplant services with the first batch of experts completed the specialized training abroad in July 2019. As the team of experts were trained in India, a procurement expert was also in the team to enable the purchase of equipment and medicines. This comes as good news for patients as treating one patient abroad for bone marrow transplant costs anything from 150m/- to 200m/-. Around 130 to 140 patients mostly suffering from cancer and sickle cell seek bone marrow transplant each year but twothirds of them die due to lack of services. In preparations to start offering the services, the government has disbursed 6.2bn/- where 3.7bn/- is meant for purchasing various equipment. African countries that offer bone marrow transplant include South Africa, Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt, Nigeria and Comoro. In the 2018/19 financial year, the parliament endorsed 898.3bn/- budget for the health ministry with a focus on enhancing maternal and child health, improving the availability of medicines across the country and preventing diseases. Tanzania is considered to be one of the world’s developing countries which are making tangible progress towards achieving the UHC by 2030 as health is considered to be one of the sectors in Tanzanian economy that have shown huge potential and have also shown considerable progress in 2018. UHC is a system that is providing health care and financial protection to all citizens of a country. The system is also known as ‘Socialised Health Care’. In 2018, the fifth phase government working in collaboration with the country’s development partners and other stakeholders made efforts to come up with the key highlights. The purpose is to transform for the betterment of the health sector to make sure that all citizens can sustainably access quality health services. The key highlights such as surge in health budget allocation in which the government sought to strengthen the health care services by raising the medical supplies budget in order to enable payment for essential medicines, immunisation, medical equipment, and also reagents to over 300bn/- in 2018/19 financial year as compared to just over 35bn/- in 2015/16 financial year. According to Deputy Minister for Health, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, almost 90 per cent of the essential medicines are now available in public hospitals; whereas at least 100.5bn/- has been set aside to finance the construction of 67 district hospitals countrywide. Furthermore, the government has also allocated at least 30bn/- to facilitate rehabilitation of regional hospitals countrywide. Emphasis should be put on enhancing Universal Health Insurance (UHI) coverage among citizens by establishing health insurance schemes with affordable packages to cater for all the citizens; the government as well need to improve reproductive health with a view to resolving issues such as maternal deaths, reproductive tract infections including sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/aids, anaemia, reproductive tract cancers and so on. Only 32 per cent of the population is covered by health insurance schemes, leaving the majority 68 per cent of Tanzanians uncovered. Of the population covered, 8 per cent are covered by the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), 23 per cent are covered by Community Health Funds (CHF) and 1 per cent by private health insurance providers. Looking ahead, as Dr Magufuli continues with his tenure, concerted efforts are needed to extend healthcare services to grassroots, curb maternal and new-born mortality and devise ways of dealing with NCDs.