TANZANIANS Stewart Brogden and Hussein Dewji joined other 100 golfers from around the globe to play in the 7th edition of Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup (TAWGC) Grand Final that winds up today in Antalya, Turkey. Golfers from Africa, Asia, North and South America, Europe and the Middle East are participating in the tournament whose top finishers get an opportunity to play the world’s top professionals at the Turkish Airlines Open from November 7th to 10th. Ahmet Sahin, General Manager of Turkish Airlines Dar es Salaam told the ‘Daily News’ in the city yesterday that Tanzania has entered two golfers this time around after Dewji missed it last year. “We have two participants from Tanzania, Dewji could not travel last year due to family issues, therefore he has joined Brogden, this year’s winner.” He said the Turkish Airlines brings to golfers the much-anticipated Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup. As well as offering corporate teams exceptional networking opportunities, tournament entrants receive first-class Turkish Airlines hospitality and golfers at the finest golf courses around the world. Over eight thousand players from around the world – all VIPs invited by Turkish Airlines - have competed in more than 100 tournaments across the globe with the winners securing places in the Grand Finals in Antalya. The Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup that played on world-class courses is one of the most popular events on golfing calendars today. This year the competitions have been played out in 101 destinations across 70 countries that include Tanzania. Turkish Airlines Chairman of the Board and the Executive Committee, İlker Aycı said in his press release yesterday; “TAWGC is an event that we are very proud of and it continues to grow and improve year on year. We are delighted to be holding this event, which has already become a key date in all golfers’ diaries, in Antalya, one of the favorite tourist destinations of Turkey that globally known with its turquoise coast and natural beauties.”