NGORONGORO Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) has spent 15bn/- through its corporate social responsibility (CSR) to support community projects in and outside areas near the world’s largest intact volcanic caldera. NCAA Chief Executive Officer and Conservation Commissioner, Dr Freddy Manongi, told reporters at Chamwino State House recently that for decades the authority had been working closely with communities near the conservation area to improve health, education and infrastructure. “This is only part of what the authority has spent. We’re also partnering with the government and other stakeholders to improve priority sectors,” he said, noting NCAA had recently approved financial support amounting to over 400m/- to support a Dodoma Capital City beautification plan. The plan, which was launched in July last year, seeks to ensure a favourable environment for all. Dodoma City Council and NCAA signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to beautify three major roundabouts in the city, one connecting the city to Arusha Road, another to Singida Road and Dar es Salaam Road. Dr Manongi said the work had so far started. “In addition, we plan to fix wildlife monuments to increase the visibility of the country’s endowed nature.” NCAA emerged the second largest contributor to conservation authorities after Tanzania National Parks Authority (Tanapa) reimbursed 23.538bn/- to the Treasury Registrar on Sunday during a ceremony that saw state agencies, institutions and authorities pay a whopping 1.05trn/-. Ngorongoro Conservation Area Public Relations Acting Manager Joyce Mgaya told reporters that NCAA had completed work on infrastructural improvement in the ecosystem. The partnership between Ngorongoro and Dodoma councils opens up opportunities for unearthing geopark tourist sites in the new capital to promote sustainable tourism development for local communities in the region. Geoparks are unified geographical areas that address the protection and use of geological heritage in a sustainable way, while promoting social and economic wellbeing of the people. Unesco defines geoparks as single, unified geographical areas with landscapes of international geological significance with a holistic concept of protection, education and sustainable development.