THE Government Chemist Laboratory Authority (GCLA) is putting in place a national human DNA database that will be used in the analysis of genetic disease, fingerprinting for criminology or genealogy. Chief Government Chemist, Dr Fidelice Mafumiko revealed this in Dar es Salaam yesterday when briefing the media on the achievements recorded by the authority during the past four years under the fifth-phase administration. Dr Mafumiko said the authority was in initial stages to create the database in collaboration with eGovernment Agency (eGA), National Identification Authority (NIDA) and Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA). “Experts from these key institutions have been involved in the initial stages of the development of the database specifically in developing concept note,” he noted Dr Mafumiko was optimistic that after two years the exercise will be complete. He noted that once the DNA database was in place, legal issues would be addressed once and for all, including issues of street children, rape cases and many more. On DNA tests costs, he said for a paternity test that will involve mother, father and their children it will cost them 300,000/- and not more than that. Further on the achievements recorded by GCLA, Dr Mafumiko said the authority through the Ministry of Finance and Planning has annulled a total of 17 charges, as well as reduce eight charges in the implementation of the Chemical Act. “This situation has enabled the improvement of the business environment in Tanzania by reducing the cost burden for chemical traders in production of various products,” he stated. On the authority’s participation in major disasters and identification of mass disaster victims, he said a number of people were assisted in identifying their relatives, recalling recently 61 victims of Morogoro fuel tanker blast were identified and all of them were connected to their relatives. Dr Mafumiko said another achievement recorded was strengthening the management and control of hazardous chemicals as part of initiatives geared at protecting the public and environment. “We inspected 414 premises in 2015/2016 and 2,406 premises in 2019/2020. In 2015/16 more than 2,129 chemical stakeholders were registered while in 2019/2020 the number increased to 3, 447,” he noted. Director of the Department of Chemical Management, Mr Daniel Ndiyo, said among the challenges facing the authority is the maintenance and repair of machines, which are not manufactured domestically. “The time taken by foreign technicians to fly in for the repair work affects our efficiency in conducting investigations,” he lamented. With most reagents imported from outside the country, the process is often derailed by a long importation chain and that impact on the authority’s performance, Mr Ndiyo said, noting the samples are eventually stored in the lab for longer periods.