BANK good results have failed to uplift neither Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) turnover nor lender stock prices as envisaged. The bourse’s equity market turnover declined to 575.45m/- in a week ending last Friday against 1.11bn/-in a previous week, despite impressive quarter three results from banks. Zan Securities Chief Executive Officer Raphael Masumbuko said they expected the banks impressive info will sink in the weeks ahead. “We expect the new developments to be factored in the weeks ahead,” Mr Masumbuko said through Zan’sWeekly Market Wrap-Ups. Also there were no price movement on either side after the banks announced their financials apart from CRDB Bank, the most profitable lender in this year’s quarter three, share price to drop to historical low level of 95/- a piece. Some stock brokers expected to see some price activities on the CRDB counter, especially on the demand side while expected less activities on the NMB counter as the results not to be attractive and for almost four years in a row. Orbit Securities Market Analyst Imani Muhingo said NMB counter skewed to the supply side with more than three million shares on sale offer at market price. “CRDB has fully recovered from the financial sector shake up brought by government reformation and crackdown on corruption, drug abuse and ghost workers,” Mr Muhingo told the ‘Daily News’. He said CRDB has worked on, and still improving, its operational efficiency putting expenses in check, while the increased focus on retailer is a business model that is clearly working well for them. “I would give NMB another year or two to see it fully recover but it will definitely will,” the broker said. Mr Muhingo said despite being in the process of valuing both banks, NMB share is evidently overvalued and CRDB is clearly undervalued. Also CRDB stock is ‘buy’ due to posting best results for the last seven quarters while NMB on the other hand is a definite ‘sell’ not because of the bank’s performance, but because it is overvalued. “[NMB stock], failed to appropriately drop while the market was self-correcting since 2016 after the hype of fully allowing foreign investors into the market in late 2014,” he said. Tanzania Securities, on the other hand, said they reiterated their ‘buy’ recommendation on the NMB since it will be boosted further on quarter three results. The stock is trading below its intrinsic value at 2,340/- and 3,000/- recommended as fair value. “We are therefore optimistic that better results would be witnessed in the last quarter of [this] year,” Tanzania Securities said in its NMB Q3 Commentary. However, Tanzania Securities said, NMB stock still remains relatively dormant at the bourse with few small transactions as supply outweighs demand. “Despite dividend having been recently paid the appetite for the stock remains low with no price movement,” Tanzania Securities said. Kenya based two stock analysts from Exotix Capital and Egyptian Financial Group-Hermen Holding recommended ‘hold’ for NMB stock with target price between 2,400/- and 2,700/-. CRDB Group’s net profit rose by 35.5 per cent to 31.06bn/-in this year’s Q3 from 22.92bn/- similar period last year, while NMB net profit for Q3 stood at 24.9bn/-, a drop from the 32.8bn/- of Q3 last year.