GOVERNMENT plans to acquire additional shares in Airtel Tanzania have reached advanced stage with the Fair Competition Commission (FCC) inviting petitions on the intended merger according to legal procedures before approval of the plan. The commission announced yesterday that it was inviting petitions or objections on the plan to increase government shares in the mobile telecommunication company from the current 40 per cent to 49 per cent as agreed in January this year to resolve a dispute over ownership of the the mobile operator. India’s Bharti Airtel agreed to cede more ownership in Airtel Tanzania to the government from the current 60 per cent to 51 per cent after its Chairman Sunil Mittal met President John Magufuli in Dar es Salaam to conclude prolonged negotiations over ownership of the third largest mobile network operator. Under the agreement, Airtel Tanzania approved allotment of 3 6,176,471 ordinary shares to the Treasury Registrar. Bharti Airtel also agreed to pay 60bn/- ($26 million) over five years and cancel $407 million of debt owed to it by Airtel Tanzania as part of the settlement. The India’s mobile telecommunication company would pay to the government 1.0bn/- every month for 60 months starting April, 2019, Chairman Sunil Mittal said at a briefing after a meeting with President Magufuli. The company will also pay the government a special divided at the end of this year, Mittal said without mentioning the amount. In 2017, the Indian company was drawn into a dispute with the government over ownership of the mobile operator after President Magufuli said it was fully owned by the state-run Tanzania Telecommunications Company Ltd (TTCL) President Magufuli said TTCL owned the local subsidiary of Bharti Airtel outright but had been cheated out of shares. Bharti Airtel had disputed this, saying it received all the required approvals from the state when it bought a 60 per cent stake and had complied with all government rules. A government inquiry ruled in 2018 that the privatisation of Tanzania Telecommunications Corp. in 2005, in which Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co. acquired a 60 per cent stake, was illegal. Airtel acquired the stake in 2010 and said the purchase was in full compliance with Tanzanian law. “The FCC has received merger notification to the effect that the Treasury Registrar of the Government of Tanzania (TR) intends to acquire additional shares in Airtel Tanzania (Plc). Airtel, the third largest mobile telephone company in Tanzania behind Vodacom Tanzania and Tigo Tanzania, controls 26 per cent of the market 11,53 8 ,3 58 customers as at the end of June this year, according to Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) figures. It had 4,191,540 customers on its mobile money platform as at the end of June. Other Mobile phone operators in Tanzania include Vodacom Tanzania, part of South Africa’s Vodacom, Tigo Tanzania, which is part of Sweden’s Millicom and Halotel, owned by Vietnam-based telecoms operator Viettel.