THE nation has been urged to fight against elements of sextortion which seem to be increasing to avoid grooming bogus graduates in the country. A warning has been given as blackmail, in which sexual information or images, used to extort sexual favours from a victim seems to be on the rise in Africa, using social media and text messages often being the source of sexual content and threatening means of sharing it with others. Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC), President Archbishop Gervas Nyaisonga warned of this phenomenon, calling for prompt action to be taken whenever one suspects sextortion especially at higher learning institutions. Archbishop Nyaisonga’s speech was read at 12th graduation of Mwenge Catholic University (MWECAU) by Bishop Severine Niwemugizi of the Catholic Diocese of Rulenge- Ngara. He said the Catholic Church condemned sextortion in the country, with the Mbeya Archdiocese Archbishop calling for law enforcers to take action against it, including extortion, bribery, breach of trust; corruption, sexual coercion, sexual exploitation, sexual assault, child pornography, computer hacking and wiretapping. Archbishop Nyaisonga noted that if action was not promptly taken, the country risked ending up with experts who had no right credentials. “Sextortion seems to be on the rise in the country. If immediate steps are not taken we will find people who claim to have graduated with flying colours, but when they go to the field after employment, they won’t be competent because they passed their exams as a result of sexual corruption and not competence. “The sad thing is that even students themselves entertain sextortion by suggesting sexual corruption to lecturers so that they may get good marks during their exams. This behaviour shouldn’t be entertained and should be fought against immediately,” he warned, adding that it would be bad to the national economy as well. The TEC president noted that time had come for the relevant authorities and all education stakeholders to take action against sextortion before it reached the level of a national disaster so that the nation could find experts to serve it with the right education needed for national development. MWECAU Vice-President, Fr Dr Filbert Vumilia, said to influence positive behaviour, the facility’s administration had decided to amend the university’s by-laws so that legal could be taken action against students engaged in depraved acts. “These changes aim at ensuring students don’t entertain immoral acts and in case they do so they are disciplined accordingly. In light of this, all those suspected of engaging in depraved acts at the university will be subject to punitive action, including being expelled from the university,” he warned. Chairman of the Executive Council of MWECAU, Archbishop Isaac Amani, called on academicians to focus on the provision of education that would lead graduates to be selfemployed and address unemployment. “The only way here is to provide theoretical and practical education and instill creativity in students due to the fact that creativity is crucial to self-reliance. Creative people are the ones who will survive in future,” said Archbishop Isaac Amani, who is also the Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Arusha.