THE face of Suzan Mungeti Stephen tells that she is absolutely happy to work at Singita Grumeti where the young girl works as a chef. The 20 year old girl is one of the beneficiaries of the annual scholarships offered to local youths by Singita Grumeti to study at Singita Serengeti School of Cooking (SSSC). “After completing my study at SSSC in 2018, I was given an opportunity to become trainee at Singita Grumeti lodges and I went around all the lodges”, Suzan told the ‘Daily News’ in Serengeti recently. “I am so proud that I now work at Singita Grumeti as chef and I know how to prepare different dishes and I love making cakes including fish cakes, “ Suzan who has specialized in pastry and deserts making added. SSSC targets girls and boys from the local villages around Grumeti / Ikorongo Reserves in Serengeti and Bunda districts. “Singita Grumeti has made me a professional cake maker and working here has also improved my standard of living,” Suzan who was born and raised at a rural village in Serengeti district points out. Singita Grumeti is a conservation and eco-tourism company that operates world’s top luxurious lodges in Western Serengeti. The lodges included Sasakwa which has been named the best hotel in the world several times. Other Singita Grumeti lodges are Singita Faru Faru Lodge, Singita Sabora Tented Camp, Singita Explore and Singita Serengeti House and the remote Lamai triangle which offers Singita Mara River Tented Camp. The presence of SSSC has made it possible for local youths to work at the world class lodges. “The purpose of this school of cooking is to take children from the local villages and give them an opportunity to become chefs”, said Mia Neethling, the Executive Chef at Singita Grumeti. SSSC opened doors in the 2014 /2015 academic year and 86 per cent of the qualified chefs graduated from the programme are currently employed in Singita Grumeti. The beneficiaries originate from the communities that in the past relied on poaching as their source of livelihood. “A good number of strong x- students have been employed by Singita Grumeti and they are doing excellent job at Singita in different lodges including Sasakwa,” Mia said. The cooking training at SSSC covers all kitchen related subjects like vegan/ vegetarian diet, common dietary requirements, knife skills, kitchen hygiene and safety and different cooking methods. Besides cooking, the SSSC curriculum covers a wide range of other subjects such as, computer application, communication skills, and entrepreneurship, tourism, French, one planet and life skills. “We are not only trained to be chefs but we get extra skills in many fields that are helpful in our career and life like conservation , business management matters and how to conduct ourselves,” Suzan said. Visiting teachers from Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) are also involved to teach SSSC students. Prior to joining the school of cooking, interested youths who are Form Four leavers have to apply and go through an interview that begins from their villages. The latest group comprising eight students most of them girls joined the cooking school in July this year. Mia says Singita Grumeti has been also prioritizing empowerment of women in the local communities. “The group of this year is very strong and they show a lot of potential. The ratio of girls and boys is 50/50 but this time it happens that the strongest students who excelled during the interview were girls. This is good because Singita Grumeti is also supporting women empowerment,” Mia explained. Hamis Mashaka Moses, one of the fresh students at SSSC is already seeing a bright future even before completing his course. “I have made a big progress during the few months that I have been at SSSC.I know how to cook many types of dishes and I know how use a knife in the kitchen. My dream is to work at Singita Grumeti and become a chef like Mia after my study,” Hamis who was born and raised in rural areas of Bunda district said. “I know what is conservation and the importance of conservation and parents at the village are also happy for me .My dream is to work at Singita Grumeti and become a chef like Mia after my study,” the 20 year old boy pointed out with a smiling face . Mia is a seasoned chef who has worked in many different areas around the world including the US, UK, Middle East and South Arabia. Consequently, Mia is now an inspiration to the SSSC graduates and students. “Working with the school of cooking is a passion and seeing people grow and teaching them what I know to further their lives. It is also great to work with a company that assists us to make all of these happen,” Ms Mia said. Mia said she has fallen in love with Tanzania for the period she had worked at Singita Grumeti . “I love Tanzania, the people are friendly and they always smile. It is a beautiful country and I am so happy that I can share my knowledge with the people here to further them and teach them everything that I know,” the Singita Grumeti Executive Chef said. Grumeti Reserves says it has created about 900 job opportunities after investing 175 million US dollars in Tanzania, thanks to favourable investment environment in the country. Around 95 per cent of the Grumeti Reserve workers are Tanzanians. It is estimated that every single job supports eight people in rural Africa, according to the World Bank (WB).