THE Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender and Elderly, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, has said that rape, abandonment, child labor and all other acts of violence against children continue to rise in the community despite many efforts done by the government and other stakeholders. He voiced the concern in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the world children's day celebrations, saying the government is committed to ensuring that children are protected and respected in their community. He said that, according to police data, in 2017 there were 13,457 cases of violence against children while in 2018 the number rose to 14,419 across the country. This year, all governments around the globe are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the adaptation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and reaffirm their commitment to the Convention. Dr Ndugulile said that the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) has inspired the government to change laws and policies and make investments so that more children finally get the health care and nutrition they need to survive and develop. "We as government made many efforts to stop any forms of violence against children. All forms of violence still exist in our community; we need collaborative efforts to reduce violence against children in Tanzania," he said. He called on parents, guardians and relatives to inform the police force about any child facing with any violence in the community instead of hiding that information for fear of reprisals. CRC offers a vision of the child as an individual and as a member of a family and community, with rights and responsibilities appropriate to his or her age and stage of development. For his part, the Permanent Secretary in the ministry of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports, Ali Possi, who was speaking on behalf of deputy minister, said through the children and young people's agenda, which was launched during the world children day celebrations, the government should improve the environment to protect children against violence. "Parents have a big role to shape their children and give them directions since they are young. Through this agenda we ensure children are safe and provided with all basic needs and protected for their future," the PS said. UNICEF Representative, Rene Van Dongen said that over the past 30 years, many things have changed in the world at large and in Tanzania, saying today’s children are facing a new set of challenges and global shifts that were unimaginable 30 years ag