FORMER National Assembly Speaker Anne Makinda on Thursday told medical practitioners to stop providing unofficial services to insured patients as a means of exploiting the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). Ms Makinda made a statement in her capacity as the chairperson of NHIF board of directors during the launch of new treatment packages in Dar es Salaam. “With the new packages, we are going to have many members and you (medics) are going to get more money from the services you provide. So, don’t provide unofficial services to insured patients because that would amount to exploiting NHIF,” she said. Her remarks came from revelations that some health facilities, especially private ones, were providing unofficial services to patients to increase treatment bills to be paid by health schemes. Ms Makinda challenged health facilities (especially health centres and dispensaries) to improve their services for the sake of competitiveness since the number of health facilities kept increasing and the newly launched packages under NHIF would enable more people to be treated from them. The new health insurance packages are “Najali Afya Premium, Wekeza Afya Premium and Timiza Afya”. The new packages’ fee breakdown shows individual persons between the age group of 18 and 35 years will range from 192,000/-to 516,000/-, while those of the age 36 and 59 will range from 240,000/-to 612,000/-and for 60 years and above will range from 360,000/-to 984,000/-. On the other hand, she said non-communicable diseases were still a big challenge in the country and 40 per cent of NHIF payments to hospitals were for the treatment of members suffering from such diseases. NHIF Director-General, Bernard Konga said NHIF had continued improving its services to enable members to enjoy better services. In areas that access of health services were a challenge NHIF had been deploying more doctors. Under this programme, NHIF recently hired doctors from Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) and sent them to some parts of Mtwara Region, Njombe, Rukwa, Singida, Manyara and others. Dr Grace Maghembe, representative from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children explained that the new packages were going to save the majority of Tanzanians who were unable to afford medical treatment. “We have been getting complaints from members of the public that they cannot afford paying for medical treatment. So, these packages are the solution,” she said. She noted that the introduction of the packages was a big step towards universal health insurance coverage.