PRESIDENT John Magufuli has appointed Dr Daniel Budeba the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Geological Survey of Tanzania (GST). According to a statement issued by the Director of Presidential Communications Gerson Msigwa in Dar es Salaam on Friday, the Chief Secretary, Ambassador John Kijazi, made the announcement, noting that the appointment took effect on November 15, this year. Formerly, Dr Budeba served as a lecturer in the Department of Chemical and Mining Engineering of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM). The Geological Survey of Tanzania was established as a Government Executive Agency in October 2005 under The Executive Agency Act No. 30, [CAP 245] of 1997, establishment order, 2005, Government notice no: 418 published on 9/12/2005. In July 2017, the Government of Tanzania amended the Mining Act of 2010 through the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act, No. 7 of 2017. Through the amendment, new functions were initiated on top of the other functions of GST described by the Mining Act 2010. GST is responsible for all matters related to geological activities other than prospecting, exploration and mining activities, and in particular shall advise the Minister on geological matters. Other functions include undertaking the geological mapping of Tanzania, and may for that purpose, engage contractors and provide data concerning the geology and mineral resources of Tanzania, Plus, to assist members of the public seeking information concerning geological matters, maintain such laboratory, library and record facilities as may be necessary for the discharge of its functions and provide geo-scientific advice, information and data to the government. The rest are acquiring geo-scientific data and information, maintain, process, archive and disseminate national geo-scientific data and information, collect, arrange and maintain geo-scientific books, records, publications, rock or mineral or fossil or core samples for research, learning and future reference, among others.