President John Magufuli on Tuesday came out publicly, appreciating former President Benjamin Mkapa for his rise to the presidency. From an ordinary person to the fifth-phase government leader, Dr Magufuli also recalled one of his hard times when he was poisoned while serving in Mkapa’s administration as deputy minister for works. He was speaking in Dar es Salaam at the official launch of former President Mkapa’s autobiography, ‘My Life, My purpose.’ Narrating the story of Mkapa’s role in his rise to the top, Dr Magufuli said it all started in 1995 when Mkapa, representing the ruling CCM in the first multiparty elections, arrived at Biharamulo East constituency, the current Chato, for campaigns. During his campaigns, the former leader canvassed for votes to Dr Magufuli as well, asking voters to vote for him as the right person for the job. “Mzee Mkapa is my hero and important person in my life. At the public rally, Mzee Mkapa held my hand and lifted it up, asking voters to vote for me, I won the seat and my political journey started,” he said. “I personally believe that his statement telling voters to send me to parliament was enough to make me elected,” he said. During his presidency, Mr Mkapa appointed Dr Magufuli as deputy minister for works. “Until now I continue asking myself why Mzee Mkapa appointed me to that crucial position, but I continually thank him for the trust he had on me,” President Magufuli said in appreciation. While serving as deputy minister, the then President Mkapa accorded him a lot of support to undertake his duties, confessed President Magufuli, describing Mr Mkapa as the leader who encouraged his subordinates and built confidence in them to make decisions. “Under Mkapa’s leadership, all his appointees were treated equally, no one was above others. One great thing that I learnt from him is his attitude to stand firm for his subordinates after things that he also had supported went wrong. When I submitted a proposed government circular to the cabinet, asking the government to allocate 1.8bn/- monthly for road construction, many ministers opposed. But, despite their opposition, the president stood for the circular and directed its implementation. He directed then Finance Minister (Basil) Mramba to work on it. “This was the beginning of construction of many roads and bridges, including the Kibiti-Nangurukuru-Lindi; Dodoma-Singida and Mkapa Bridge and Umoja Bridge, using domestic funds,” explained Dr Magufuli. He recalled Mkapa’s character of appreciating jobs well done in construction of roads. At one point, Mr Mkapa declared Dr Magufuli as his frontliner in road building. “Despite his good intention to praise me, this brought problems to me, it created my enemies among fellow ministers, I was poisoned and nearly lost my life but for the God’s mercy, I survived,” he said. After the incident, Dr Magufuli approached the head of state and informed him of his plan to resign but Mr Mkapa only told him to continue working, believing in God. “In this incident, I saw Mzee Mkapa as someone who gives hopes at times of despair,” President Magufuli testified, saying during the short period he appreciated Mkapa as God-fearing person, patriotic, follower of the Late Julius Nyerere principles and ideologies and good diplomat.