MEMBERS of Parliament (MPs) have asked the government to increase support to agriculture, warning that snubbing the sector could derail realisation of the industrialisation drive. The legislators decried the meagre allocation to the country’s key economic sector, challenging the government to walk the talk and adhere to Maputo Declaration on Agriculture and Food Security in Africa that advocates allocating of 10 per cent of the national budget to agriculture. Andrew Chenge (Bariadi West—CCM) commended the government for enormous investments on key infrastructures—water, electricity, roads and railway—that would undeniably sustain industrial development but observed that, “Agriculture, livestock and fisheries hold the key to sustainable development of any other sector.” The senior lawmaker implored the government to come up with comprehensive interventions to stir the average agricultural growth to at least six per cent in five consecutive years. The interventions, according to Dr Diodorus Kamala (Nkenge—CCM), should be at transforming agriculture sector within the boundaries. Dr Kamala cited commercial crops like cotton, coffee, grapes and tea, which contribute greatly to the country’s foreign currency earnings, saying they too need a complete overhaul to boost production and compete in international markets. The MPs were debating the new government spending and expenditure projections for the 2019/20 fiscal year as tabled by Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango in the National Assembly here on Tuesday. But, opposition MPs Sofia Mwakagenda (Special Seats—CHADEMA) and Masoud Abdallah Salimu (Mtambale—CUF) expressed concerns over the development of agriculture sector in the country, accusing the government of publishing doctored figures on economic growth and poverty levels. Ms Mwakagenda told the house that the government figures hardly represented the reality, arguing that the National Assembly, for instance, in this year’s budget approved 100bn/- for the ministry of agriculture’s development projects but only 2bn/- or two per cent has been released, so far. Additionally, she said out of 4bn/- that was allocated to the ministry of livestock and fisheries, only three per cent of the budget has so far been disbursed. Mr Salimu faulted figures by the finance minister that shows per capita income and expenditures as well as poverty level have decreased from 9.7 per cent in 2011 to eight in 2017. He argued that a kilogramme of maize floor was 800/- in 2011 and is now trading between 1,600/- and 2,000/-, “This will automatically reduce the food intake ratio of basically three meals to either two or one meal a day, this is abject poverty.” The lawmakers are scheduled to debate the government statement for the next three days before the government starts responding.