THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday ordered the arrest of four Members of Parliament (MPs) of Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) for allegedly jumping bail in a sedition trial they are facing. Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba, who is conducting the trial, took into consideration an application presented by the prosecution, led by Principal State Attorney Faraja Nchimbi, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon and State Attorneys Salim Msemo and Jacqueline Nyantori. The magistrate also directed the sureties of the senior officials of the opposition party to be subpoenaed and show cause why they did not bring the accused to court. He became furious after noting that almost half of the accused persons did not attend the hearing session. The party officials the court said should be arrested are Peter Msigwa, the Member of Parliament (MP) for Iringa Urban, John Heche, (Tarime Rural), Halima Mdee, (Kawe) and Ester Bulaya (Bunda Urban). During the hearing session, the party’s National Chairman Freeman Mbowe, who was in court, was required to continue giving his defence testimony through cross-examination by the prosecution. However, the magistrate was forced to adjourn the proceedings to November 19, 2019. “I have been so lenient, but this is now becoming too much. I cannot accept this,” the magistrate said. Advocate Faraji Mangula, for the accused, attempted to explain the whereabouts of the absentees, but he was cut short by the magistrate, ruling out that such position was required to be given by sureties. At a certain point after adjournment of the trial, one of the sureties whose name could not be identified was seen moving around the court premises while profusely sweating. She thereafter went near the court chamber where the magistrate conducts cases in chamber in attempt to meet him. However, such mission aimed at the attempt to waive the arrest warrants hit snags. Other accused who were in court are the party’s Secretary General Vicent Mashinji , John Mnyika, Deputy Secretary General (Mainland), Salum Mwalimu, Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar) and Tarime Urban MP, Ester Matiko. They are charged with 13 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, unlawful assembly, rioting after proclamation, raising discontent and ill-will for unlawful purposes, sedition and inciting commission of offences. The charges are alleged to have been committed between February 1 and 16, 2018 in the city. The prosecution alleges that on February 16, 2018 along Kawawa Road at Mkwajuni area, being assembled with intent to carry out a common purpose, jointly and together, all accused persons conducted themselves in such a manner as to cause fear of breach of peace. It is claimed further that on the same day and place, with more than 12 other persons not in court, having riotously assembled, in disobedience of proclamation given by a police officer, the accused persons failed to disperse and continued to take part in the riot. Thereby, according to the prosecution, the accused persons breached the peace and terrifying the public, culminating in the death of National Institute of Transport (NIT) Student, Akwilina Akwiline Baftaa, and injury of two police officers, Police Constable Fikiri and Corporal Rahim Msangi. According to the prosecution, on the same day at Buibui grounds, while addressing Kinondoni residents at the public meeting, Mbowe, Mdee and Heche made statements likely to raise discontent and promote feelings of ill-will amongst the inhabitants of the United Republic of Tanzania. The prosecution alleged further that Mbowe, in related offences, made seditious statements with the intention of bringing hatred and contempt to the citizens of the United Republic of Tanzania against the lawful authority of the government. It is alleged further that on the same day at Buibui grounds, Mbowe, Msigwa and Bulaya with other persons who are not in court, jointly incited the residents of Kinondoni District in the city to commit offences of unlawful assembly, going armed in public and rioting.