FORMER Young Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera has said the Jangwani Street club should consider refund him the money he spent to solve some players issues while at the club. Speaking on Thursday, Zahera made it clear that he is confident the club leadership will repay him but insisted that it was not his responsibility to press the leadership to do so. “For example, at some instances, I was compelled to use my money to pay for training venues but that was the responsibility of the club to pay. As such, they should repay me,” said the Congolese trainer. He added that he was told to meet the club’s management on Monday, saying the concerned individuals have travelled to Mwanza for their today’s Mainland Premier League match against Alliance FC. He added that the Chairman (Mshindo Msolla) told him to write the entire amount the club owes him for them to see how he is going to be refunded and has done just like that. Asked to mention how much he is demanding to be re-paid, Zahera replied that it is a secret and cannot disclose it to the public. However, it is estimated that Yanga owes Zahera over 100m/-. Queried whether he has received coaching offers from other clubs in the country, Zahera said until now he has not officially been contacted for the coaching job by any team. On his part, Yanga Vice-Chairman Frederick Mwakalebela said to refund Zahera was not a big issue and as a club, they will do that without problems. “As the management, we are waiting for him to come and sort out some logistics… it is not a big issue at all,” Mwakalebela said. While at the helm of Yanga, Zahera drove the team to a second place finish last season to enable his side claim a CAF Champions League slot but failed to reach into the group stage. The DR Congo tactician was shown the exit door after the giants were bundled out of the CAF Confederation Cup competition by Egyptian side Pyramids FC 5-1 on aggregate. After a 2-1 home loss, Yanga went on to lose 3-0 in Egypt in the second leg tie.