THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam has ordered a Somali national, Abshir Hachi Afrah, to pay over 8bn/-as compensation to the government for the loss he occasioned to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Principal Resident Magistrate, Janeth Mtega gave the order after convicting the 56-year-old businessman on his own plea of guilty to the charge for occasioning the loss to a specified authority. The magistrate ordered the accused to pay 800m/-immediately. Initially, the businessman was facing two counts, including tax evasion. After the amnesty granted by President John Magufuli recently, Afrah wrote to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), requesting to plead guilty to one of the offences and sign a plea bargain agreement. The DPP accepted the businessman’s letter and decided to drop one count of fraudulent tax evasion, but retained the count of occasioning the loss to a specified authority. The parties, thereafter, appeared before the court where the plea bargain agreement was registered. Principal State Attorney Zacharia Ndaskoi, on behalf of the DPP, read the new charge against the Somali national and presented a memorandum of facts of the case. The businessman pleaded guilty to the charge and admitted all facts. It was at that point in time when the magistrate proceeded to convict the businessman of the offence charged. In addition to paying to the government the 8,107,509,385/43, the court gave the accused a conditional discharge of not committing any offence for 12 months. The magistrate further ordered him to comply with the terms and conditions of the plea bargain agreement, including paying 800m/- immediately and settling the remaining balance of 7,307,509,385/-in equal installments in 12 months. According to the agreement, the convict agreed to cooperate fully, faithfully and completely with the Republic and promised to provide all information known to him regarding the other accused in the case or any other criminal proceedings. He also acknowledged that failure to cooperate fully, faithfully and completely with the Republic would amount to a breach of the agreement and committed himself to keeping confidential all information he obtained or became aware of in the process of discussing the agreement. It is stated that such breach of the agreement would entitle the DPP to reinstitute criminal charges against the businessman that were dropped upon entering the plea bargain agreement. On the other hand, the Republic committed itself that the information provided by the convict pursuant to the agreement would not be used in any other criminal prosecution against him except for prosecuting him resulting from the breach of the agreement. It was claimed by the prosecution that on diverse dates and months between 2015 and 2018 at the office of TRA in Dar es Salaam Region, by his negligent act, the businessman caused the authority to suffer a pecuniary loss of 8,107,509,385/43.