Dar es Salaam based GSM group of companies, is set to launch its biggest furniture store dubbed ‘GSM HOME’, aimed at addressing the existing gaps in the market in supply of wide range of good quality furniture’s. Occupying about 1,200 square feet space, the new store is located along Mwai Kibaki road in Mikocheni B area and is expected to cater for growing needs of office and home furniture in the country. Speaking at head office in Dar es Salaam GSM group of Companies Chief Commercial Officer Mr. Allan Chonjo said, the plan to unveil of the new store is the company’s long-time dream that will come true. “We are very excited that soon we will launch this great store in Dar es Salaam. In addition to offering customers a convenient shopping experience, GSM HOME will have a number of contemporary furniture including shelving, sofas, sideboards, coffee tables, dining furniture, beds and bed room furniture, wardrobes and a wide range of cash N carry items everything to make your house perfect,” he said. Also Chonjo added “And for the Office, we have a large selection of fabulous office furniture including reception area, waiting area, chairs, ergonomics, tables, conferences, workstations, storage and filing cabinets,” Either the Chief Commercial Officer noted that, the contemporary furniture collections which will be found at GSM HOME are carefully chosen for value and practicality as well as design; with the ethos that good design must work as well as being great to look at adding that a considerable amount of time has been spent looking for just the right. He urged people to be prepared to visit the new store shortly after the lunch which will be this month and enjoy new furniture shopping experience adding that the store has everything to cater for their furniture needs. “When choosing furniture, it’s important to pick timeless, functional pieces that fit your space and budget! Choose from contemporary and modern, traditional or a bit of both in a unique eclectic mix – there are no rules, so don’t be afraid to get creative and buy furniture you love,” he said. We have launched our two shops in Mlimani City as well as Pugu Mall, and this 3rd one will be our iconic version aimed at driving user experience. We have packages for both individuals as well as corporate clients – with facilities to pay by card so you don’t have to carry a lot of cash with you for security purpose.