THE government has clarified issues related to civil society organisations working in the country after amending the Non-Government Organisation Act No 24 of 2002. The amendments to the Act aimed at clearly defining the operations of a company and of a nongovernmental organisation (NGO). Charities, however, raised concern that the amendments introduced changes that were detrimental to their existence. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa addressing Civil Society Organisations Week #CSOWeek2019 held for the first time in Dodoma and attended by over 500 charities said the “government trusts you.” Earlier, the President of the Foundation for Civil Society, Dr Stigmata Tenga, said trust was one of the challenges facing civil societies. She noted that the problem if left unsolved would frustrate the efforts being made to reach sustainable development in communities and the country. “For us to be able to collaborate and work together we must establish trust,” she said. “Civil society organisations must be trusted to effectively discharge their duties.” But Mr Majaliwa, who remained unsure on whether the trust issue was between nongovernmental organisations and the government he quickly said, “If it’s within NGOs it has to be addressed, but as for the government we trust you and we expect you to do the same.” He explained that the amendments to the NGO legislation and then the regulations were for strengthening the operations of charities in various parts of the country. The Prime Minister was of the view that the work of CSOs had been so visible in the country and, therefore, an important pillar of the country’s development. Government records show that there are 10,378 registered NGOs in the country. Unfortunately, some of them have been money-focused and this makes it difficult to monitor and regulate their operations. Mr Majaliwa, who visited Longido in Arusha, witnessed 31 NGOs in the same district learnt that some of them had no clear focus, objectives and opened bank accounts in a foreign country. He said between January and September this year the government reviewed 92 registered charities and found they had received over 261bn/-. In 2016 and 2017 a review of 51 charities found that they had received over 2.5tri/-. This, according to the PM, if effectively coordinated could foster development in the country. Minister for Health Community Development, Gender and Children, Ummy Mwalim said this year her office had registered 617 NGOs nearly twice the number registered last year of 385 NGOs. “The government has introduced the new regulations and wants NGOs to publish their financial books ... this will increase transparency and accountability,” she noted. Dr Tenga, however, asked the government to consider establishing a special fund for NGOs that were supporting the government in various development projects. She said cooperation was the foundation of development. Tracing at least 16 NGOs, the President said they had contributed at least 235bn/-in project development, salaries and government tax.