TAHAFRESH Handling Ltd (TFHL) has been recognized as among the country’s Top 100 fastest growing midsized companies in a logistic category. TFHL, a third party logistics company, has been named in the 2019/2020 Tanzania Top 100 midsized companies’ survey, as the most ‘promising’ firm, among the peers. Providing transportation, logistics and supply chain solutions for the country’s sensitive fresh produces, TFHL prides itself on being able to provide customized solutions and rapid logistical services for their global customer-base. “Why we grow fast is because we combine service and technology to create impressive, customized thirdparty logistics solutions for each of our customers,” said TFHL General Manager, Mr Amani Temu, shortly after having received the prestigious award recently. The Tanzania Top 100 Mid-sized Companies survey acknowledges fastest growing enterprises in the country annually to inspire other firms to emulate the spirit to spur economic growth. Indeed, TFHL is credited for having invested in innovative business solutions to make operations more efficient, profitable and successful through means of cutting edge technologies. “At TFHL, we put a premium on technology and customer service in order to meet the complex needs of this highly competitive, rapidly expanding logistic industry,” explained the company’s board of directors’ chairperson, Ms Jacquiline Mkindi. “Our employees follow through on TFHL’s promise to simplify transportation management, helping our clients become a shipper of choice and continue to do what’s best for their business,” Ms Mkindi added. She noted that her logistic company provides customers solutions, technologies, and assets to cut costs and maintain the flexibility to quickly respond to opportunities or challenges with minimum risk. Available records indicate that TFHL handles at least 10 million kg of horticulture products from Tanzania per annum. It offers a wide range of horticultural products export and import services including its flagship airfreight, clearing and forwarding, refrigerated trucking, perishable handling, sea freight from both Dar es Salaam and Mombasa ports. TFHL continues to operate, as an industry professional logistics business affiliated with the best international standard setters such as the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA). The company is also an official member of World Cargo Alliance (WCA) network. The WCA is the world’s most powerful grouping of independent freight forwarders with more than 6,473 members in 789 cities and ports worldwide.