SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems labelled the 2-1 friendly defeat from KMC on Saturday as part of training session prior to the resume of the league. The Mainland champions faced KMC in a buildup clash at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam to keep shape for the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) which resumes this week. KMC’s Kenny Ally scored a brace on the day to silence the Msimbazi Street based side whose consolation goal came in the closing stages of the match courtesy of Ibrahim Ajib spot kick. At a post-match briefing, Aussems said the match was simply part of his training programme and that it was a good platform for players who do not regularly play in the first team to test their mettle. “Physically, it has given us what we wanted and I believe that we will be able to bounce back positively during the league games,” he said. However, Aussems was worried with the injury of his defender Erasto Nyoni who picked a knock while serving for the national team, Taifa Stars against Equatorial Guinea on Friday at the national Stadium. The situation made him (Nyoni) dropped from the squad which is in Libya for tomorrow’s 2021 AFCON qualifiers second match. “I pray that all other players who are trading with their respective national teams should be able to come back well without injuries so that once the league restarts, we should have the entire team fit,” the Belgian trainer said. In his remarks, Kennedy Ally said scoring two goals on the day against Simba was good and hopes he will continue scoring in their league encounters. “We played with much unity and worked hard which was a secret for our success. In league matches, we also play with the similar mentality only that we are facing a tough period that is depriving us good results,” Ally said. He then seized the opportunity to dismiss claims that the team’s players were deliberately performing poorly as a way to drive out former coach Jackson Mayanja, who parted company with the Kinondoni based team recently. “At the moment, I cannot comment on such claims but what people should know is that the former coach and the current one are all good,” he said. KMC have had a sloppy ride this season as they have only managed to win two matches in their eight league meetings to occupy 16th slot with eight points in hand. On the other hand, Simba continue to sit at the summit of the table with 22 points from nine games only two points above second placed Kagera Sugar. Meanwhile, Young Africans beat Coast union 3-1 in a friendly match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Yanga needed second half goals by Mrisho Ngasa, Papy Tshishimbi and Juma Balinya to offset an own goal netted by defender Ally Sonso in the first half.