TOTAL Tanzania has promised to continue providing to the Tanzania market, the best quality fuels with excellium and lubricants as well as best and superior services. Total Tanzania, which celebrates its customer week in style, has also promised to give its customers the best product and quality service with the theme "Customer Centricity". The Managing Director of Total in Tanzania, Mr Jean Francois Schoepp, said during the launch of Top service week at Total Mlimani City Service Station, that the company marks customer week every year for three reasons. They are to get close to customers, listen to them and establish areas for improvements. "Firstly we are doing this because we want to be close to our customers, we want to get an opportunity to listen to them, to hear from them and it's also an opportunity for us to improve". According to him, Total customer week focuses on customer centricity where the company sees customers at the center of its attention. He said: "It is an opportunity for all our staff to meet our customers and set a good platform for Total to promote its best quality fuel the Total Excellium and lubricants,". Total Tanzania Network Director, Ms Marieme Sow, said: "We wish to make sure we demonstrate how to handle our customers throughout the year by talking to our customers and get their valuable feedback on what they want and make sure they get the best products and services. "Once again as Total, we demonstrate how we can be innovative and it has been a pleasure discussing with our customers as they visited our stations and got a chance to be services by our employees and management teams". Most Customers interviewed during the day expressed their satisfaction with the service and products they receive at Total and they are very happy and can feel that they are at the center of Total's attention. Total Tanzania Limited is a petroleum market and service company, incorporated in Tanzania since 1969. Total Business focuses on the marketing, supply and service of petroleum products, HFO and lubricants, which are marketed through its General Trade, service stations and specialty departments within its organization. Total Tanzania Limited extends its expertise in offering reliable, secured and convenient service through its use of the Total Card system for purchase of lubricants, fuels and car service at any total service station general trade customers. As part of its diversification, Total Tanzania Limited through the Total Access to Solar (TATS), project, supports the distribution of solar lanterns to the Tanzanian community by introducing distribution of solar lanterns through the AWANGO brand.