CRDB Bank said it is targeting to triple earnings per share maximising on prudent lending, cost efficiency and innovative services. The lender said on Thursday that earnings per share increased from 26/- to 47/10 for the year ending September. The earnings increase came after the bank posted a net profit increase of 76 per cent equals to 92.16bn/-for the year ending September. CRDB Managing Director, Abdulmajid Nsekela said the bank is moving to right direction hence achieving stellar performance backed by strong balance sheet. “We have redefined our services…and we are moving to the right direction,” Mr Nsekela told reporters when briefing on the bank’s performance in quarter three. The performance, the MD, said was pushed by the bank positive changes to the entire bank system thus elevating productivity and cost efficiency. “We have embarked on the digitalisation journey while adhering to good governance, reduce operational costs and improve our service delivery,” Mr Nsekela said. The key indicators that cemented the bank at top position for the two quarters consecutive are assets that jumped by 5.0 per cent to 6.2tri/-, deposits up 7.0 per cent 4.8tri/- and profit registered a historic raise of 76 per cent to 92.16bn/-from 52.25bn/-. “Our earnings from credit books, trade finance, and foreign currency dealings have significantly increased, showing our commitment to serving each segment in the market,” CRDB chief said. The bank’s continued pursuit for business excellence heralds even higher financial performance in the last quarter of the year. “We are re-engineering our products and services to respond to the changing needs in the marketplace, we are optimistic about our targets, come end of the year,” he said. The lender return on equity climbed from 8.9 per cent to 15.4 per cent while cost efficient ratio dropped from 67 per cent to 64 per cent. The bank is targeting to reach the industry cost efficient ratio to less than 55 per cent while cutting non-performing loans ratio to not more than 3.0 per cent. It NPLs level was at 7.5 per cent at end of September. The lender loan portfolio went up by 2.5 per cent to 3.25tri/-in Q3 this year from 3.17tri/- reported in the previous quarter ending June. CRDB continues to command a 22-per cent market share of industry deposits, owing to its robust network of 240 branches, 551 ATMs, over 2,400 Point of Sales (POS) terminals. CRDB Wakala agents had increased by 7,260 years on year to reach 11,612 by the end of this September.