MINISTER for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe said time has come for the country to have consistency in sports development. He said this on Wednesday in Dar es Salaam, during a special meeting attended by various sports stakeholders aimed at identifying and generating long time solutions to various challenges facing sports development in the country. “You can all agree with me that as a country, we have been registering success in sports but it should be known that we are still facing serious problems, which can only be addressed through coming together as you have done to get to the bottom of the problem,” Mwakyembe said. He continued: “As a country, we need to invest a lot in sports but the major obstacle is to know what brings us downwards considering that only investment without knowing the real problem is nothing.” Furthermore, Mwakyembe pointed out that basing on the kind of briefings he received from the meeting; surely, he has seen light at the end of the tunnel. He promised full government intervention and that all the discussed matters will be given feedback in two months’ time. He added that the meeting will also provide a good platform for some laws, rules and regulations governing sports to be changed to go in accordance with the demands of the world. Again, Mwakyembe said he was heartbroken when the Mainland side Kilimanjaro Queens failed to defend the CECAFA Women Championship after succumbing to a 2-0 loss at the hands of Kenya. “From the way we started the tournament, everyone was satisfied with the performance of Kilimanjaro Queens only to be disappointed on the final day. This is why as a nation we must come up with concrete solution,” he said. Speaking earlier, Chairman of the National Sports Council (NSC) Leodegar Tenga revealed some of the things raised in the meeting, which are hindering sports development as financial hardship, lack of proper infrastructure, encroachment of playing areas as well as lack of youth development programmes. “It is not a hidden thing that we have talented youth who are willing to shine in various sports circles but as sports governing bodies, we do not have required measures to help in promoting the growth of sports,” he said. One of the participants, Tuntufye Mwambusi said they have gained a lot from the meeting and was just waiting to see what the feedback from the government will be. Another hot issue which was discussed is to find solution for the country to have astate- of –the- art sports arena, where various sport activities will be held under one roof.