ON average, it takes one generation (25 years) for a country to evolve from one development ladder to another (say, from low-income to middle income). Tanzania’s Development Vision 2025, adopted in year 2000, envisioned a middle-income status country by 2025. The “road” to 2025 incorporated lessons learned from previous Visions. The topmost priorities of Vision 2025 are industrialization, human development (education/ health) and implementation effectiveness. Slow at first, the implementation of the Vision has gathered momentum under the Fifth Phase Government. Both the 2015 CCM Election Manifesto and 2016/17-2020/21 Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) aligned their objectives, targets and priorities with the Vision. President John Pombe Magufuli (JPM) has personally spearheaded the implementation of the Manifesto and FYDP virtually ‘ad verbum’. He started by instituting cost cutting measures, plugging domestic revenue leaks, tackling corruption and money laundering, instilling new mindset and work ethos, prioritizing strategic interventions in the short and mediumterm, increasing the quantum and share of development and social expenditure, mounting impromptu visits to development project sites to assess progress, taking public officials to task for their inactions and improving overall public service delivery. As it stands, the entire administration is now fully committed to economic change. While four years is “nothing” on a development scale, yet the scale and range of development programmes and initiatives that have been undertaken is breathtaking. What President Magufuli has done in four years speaks volumes. Nothing similar was done within this timeline in the entirety of the previous three administrations. We never imagined possible! One wonders then if we have been paying taxes all along, where did our money go? Surely, if taxes were properly collected and utilized, we would have been “middleincome” by now. It’s frugality, spending without waste or lavishness, which makes the Fifth Phase Government special. It scores highly!The only credible comparator would be the First Phase Government, which, in its first ten years, achieved more than what the British did in 40 years! I was there at the National Stadium in 1971 to celebrate Mwalimu Nyerere’s accomplishments. Experiences elsewhere indicate that the most effective way to fight corruption is to start from the top, since it’s here where all dubious rip-offs are concocted, facilitated and actualized. The top massively benefits from corruption and other scams. President Magufuli’s approach is similar. By targeting the top, previously deemed untouchable, the President is indirectly eliminating those vices at the bottom. A clean top is a cleaner bottom! Thanks also to the strong and proactive anti-corruption body, the PCCB. To appreciate the extent of corruption and how development monies were squandered or wasted, just listen to the MP for the Nkasi North Constituency, Hon. Ally Mohamed Keissy, who has repeatedly alleged how public servants connived with contractors to drain the Treasury dry in uncompleted and dysfunctional water supply projects. Who knows if there were some contracts signed elsewhere but with no intention to implement them? The President has made us understand the full extent of these vices, and the threat they pose to our society and economy. We now see the outcome of his war, as no individual is above the law, and resources which otherwise would have been pilfered are channeled into social and economic infrastructure, social services, urban renewal, revival of state-owned enterprises and other flagship initiatives. The upswing in annual budgetary allocation on social services, for example, is perhaps the highest in the country’s history. Strategic investments in infrastructure and human development will catalyze growth and prosperity. Increased domestic revenue will also enable us to implement our development priorities without dependency on donors. After all, donor funding is unpredictable, “tied”, inherently bureaucratic and therefore slow-disbursing. It’s more reassuring to see Government programmes and initiatives being implemented swiftly and on time, and that available financial resources are utilized judiciously and for the purposes they are intended. The total revamp of the central railway line, the revival of the national airline, execution of the massive Rufiji Hydro Power Project, off-grid rural electrification, and further improvements in the transportation sector (highways and byways, airports, seaports, marine transport and feeder roads) are expected to spur human and economic activity. Feeder roads and rural electricity in particular will better the lives of rural dwellers as they would facilitate easy access to nearby and far-away markets, in addition to other lifeline activities in retailing, small-scale refrigeration, chicken and vegetable farming, light trucking hauling etc. Thus, TARURA and REA mustbe facilitated resourcewise. Government’s other prop-poor interventions include free education at primary and secondary levels; construction and equipping of 69 District Hospitals and 352 health centres (what a quantum leap in the number of medical facilities!); and the removal of multiple levies on agricultural produce and livestock. To enable Tanzania benefit from its rich natural resources – rather than foreign multinationals and the local elite – Magufuli’s administration has radically addressed major anomalies in the sector by renegotiating questionable contracts and plugging loopholes that promoted tax evasion, lopsidedness in profit-sharing, mis pricing, outright cheating, illicit financial outflows due to clandestine company ownership structures and abuse of mining and other concessions. It shows how such “investors” had no real “friendship”, only self-interests. We should tactfully manage them so that we get a deservedly bigger share from our natural resources. This has been done, though I still believe we ought to press for more, and not be contented with what we have. Still, we see, for the first time, proceeds from minerals being utilized locally to our benefit. Similarly, the re-invigoration of the local industrial base, fostered successfully by Mwalimu Nyerere but gradually left to crumble after he retired in 1985, is another added tally to President Magufuli. A credible manufacturing base will promote value-addition in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and minerals. An even bolder step by Government is the move to Dodoma, an endeavor that remained elusive for 30 years! We must appreciate that moving a nation-state from one development stage to another is not easy. Everyone talks of Malaysia, Singapore, Finland, Turkey or Vietnam. We even bragged ourselves in 2005 to be like Malaysia by 2015 or so. Well, Malaysia didn’t become what it is by mere rhetoric. You need to talk to the twotime Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad and other old-timers in Government (which I was privileged to have) to appreciate the sacrifices they made and the challenges they encountered. It was tough and frustrating. But they persevered. That’s why we need to backstop our President’s endeavors so that they do not fail, and that our cherished trajectory to becoming a middle-income nation does not go off-track. Ordinary people now realize that provision by Government of public goods and services is their right, not a privilege as they were made to believe in the past. Under your able leadership, it’s feasible that Tanzania would steer itself into a league of middle income countries come 2025 (Insha’Allah)! Notwithstanding the above, I have six issues that I request the Government to address. The first involves investment incentives to local entrepreneurs, who should enjoy the same privileges accorded to foreign investors. Charity starts at home. Similarly, there’s need for Government-assisted loans for small industrial startups in order to fast-track our industrialization program. Second, our VAT, at 18%, is exorbitant, given our low disposable income and high production costs. Resultant low profit margins badly affect micro and small trades, which, combined, are potentially the biggest employers. Compare Tanzania’s VAT to that of Ghana (12.5%), Nigeria (5% now, 7% next year), Egypt (14%), Ethiopia (15%), or South Sudan (10%). Third, cities and municipalities, especially Dar es Salaam, must formulate and implement comprehensive sewerage, sanitation and storm water drainage programs to avert yearly street flooding and disease outbreaks. They should also embark on proper solid waste disposal;extensive street modernization and lighting; and the upgrading of the often potholed, muddy and impassable street roads. Fourth, Ministers and Regional and District top functionaries may be assessed and rated annually by the people, based on delivery (performance). Fifth, all abandoned development projects in the country must be visited and investigated; and subsequently, completed and operationalized. Those responsible for wrongdoing must account. And sixth, the national public health service delivery for the elderly (I being one), children, the terminally ill, radiography and related services need a review. Non-clarity in administrative procedures, sheer bureaucracy and affordability issues are negating the benefits. *Abdallah M Kiliaki is a Development Economist, with 25 years of experience in international development. He retired on 26 May 2017. He previously worked for Tanzania Rural Development Bank, Uyole Agricultural Centre in Mbeya, Ministry of Finance & Economic Affairs in Banjul-Gambia, Coopers & Lybrand Associates (Tanzania) Ltd and Islamic Development Bank in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. His contacts are (HPs): +255 652 998 675 / +255 683 096 000; (EMs): akiliaki52@gmail. com, amkiliaki1952@hotmail. com