TANZANIA Sustainability Portal has been launched, aiming at advancing sustainable business practices, track progress towards achieving sustainable development goals, and further encourage partnership between the private and public sector. The portal was launched in Dar es Salaam yesterday at an event identified as ‘Making Global Goals Local Business– East Africa’ through coordination of the United Nations Global Compact. Besides, the portal also enables assessment and analysis of the state of the private sector and other stakeholders towards implementation of SDGs. Among objectives include raising awareness of sustainability issues to help capitalize action and be an entry point to uphold information available in Tanzania. The Deputy Home Affairs Minister, Mr Hamad Masauni observed that the development and implementation of SDGs is paramount to the achievement of national development strategies, hence vital to leave no one behind. According to him, the world is 11 years away from realizing the implementation of the SDGs, thus making Global Goals Local Business event critical for different views. “Today, we are living in a world where most societies are neither peaceful nor equitable or sustainable. “The world is still facing many violent conflicts and wars resulting in massive loss of lives, the threat of terrorism, destruction of the environment, refugee influxes, displaced persons, and global migration, where hunger and poverty persists in many parts of the world,” said Mr Masauni. He noted that addressing the challenges requires a collective visionary leadership and governance; for the miseries are mainly humanmade, meaning they can be prevented if people resolve to take collective measures. Thus, he said continued and meaningful cooperation among member states is a prerequisite in addressing all challenges confronting the world. In the case of business investment in the country, the Deputy Minister disclosed that the event comes at an opportune time as the country welcomes more investors to invest in the country due to the peaceful environment. UN Global Compact Board Member, Ms Flora Mutahi identified a recent released global report citing that Africa is not on track to achieve the SDG’s. She cited some of the obstacles to include lack of commitment, lack of awareness and reliable funding to finance the process. “Africa does not need charity; it’s our duty as a continent to drive implementation of the SDGs, what is needed is a positive outlook,” she said. The Chairperson of Global Compact Network Tanzania, Mr Simon Shayo noted that the private sector has a role to play in protecting the environment to achieve cost benefit.