MEMBERS of Parliament (MPs) were yesterday given tablet computers to enable them discharge their duties effectively and save money spent by the National Assembly to print documents for their activities. This comes as the august House commences the 17th session in the capital city of Dodoma today. Through the arrangement, the National Assembly is expected to save 2bn/-, which it has been spending on printing papers per annum, to only 200m/-. The Clerk of the National Assembly, Mr Stephen Kigaigai, said during the distribution of the devices the House had purchased 450 tablet computers at 900m/- for MPs and clerks of parliamentary committees. “The devices will play a crucial role in reducing printing costs of documents for the MPs and thus save taxpayers’ money,” he explained. Mr Kigaigai urged government ministries to ensure most of the information presented to the National Assembly was prepared digitally to avoid the use of paper work in its activities. “In the past we used to receive over 500 copies of various documents, but with the provision of tablet computers we hope to receive not more than 10 copies since all information will be provided electronically,” he stated. Speaking after the event, Mufindi South MP Merdrad Kigola (CCM) commended the move which he said would not only save costs, but also enable MPs to conduct thorough researches on matters affecting people. “Parliamentarians are like researchers who are required to conduct studies on many issues and by providing us with these tablet computers will make our work efficient. “Previously, we were provided with many documents which made it very hard to make references, but the provision of the devices will facilitate our work,” he stated. Commenting on the same matter, Hai MP Godluck Mollel (CCM) said the use of the gadgets would also enable MPs to use the digital system to connect to other parliaments globally. “It is our hope that the digital system will allow constituents to know the truth about the affairs of their parliament and the world at large,” he explained. Special Seats MP Lucy Owenya (Chadema) commended the move and advised that the system should be used in all government offices, including local government authorities, where she claimed paper work took long and was costly.