SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the defeat in Shinyanga against Mwadui FC was an accident which can happen unexpectedly on the way. His words came in reaction following a massive 4-0 win over Mbeya City on Sunday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, results which keep them flying high at the top of the league table with 21 points from eight games. Simba return to action on Thursday hosting Tanzania Prisons at the same venue with high hopes to claim maximum points to hit 24 points at the summit. As of now, Tanzania Prisons are the only side yet to lose a league match hence the game will likely be interesting to watch as Simba will eye to be the first team to punish the Mbeya based giants. In his post-match briefing, Aussems said he was fully satisfied with the massive victory saying all his players were in focus from the beginning to the end. “Today (Sunday) the performance matched the number of goals we scored even though we had great chances to score more than four goals but all the same, I am fully convinced with the final output,” he said. Asked about the progress of his injured skipper John Bocco, Aussems said he is still in pain despite training with his teammates in the past training editions. “I am worried about his situation because he is still in pain and I am not sure to when exactly he can come back to the battlefield,” the Belgian trainer said. On his part, Mbeya City coach Juma Mwambusi said he has a new team which will take time to get back on the track as far as the league is concerned. “Simba is an experienced side with quality players while my team is still in re-building phase and the four months we have had together are not enough to give ourselves the tangible results we deserve,” he said. He then disclosed that his side went off the hook after conceding the second goal saying his players lost momentum and courage to make a remarkable comeback. Adding, Mwambusi appealed for patience from the team’s fans around the country insisting that there is still enough room for them to make an impact in the contest. “I am still hopeful that we will be able to regain our usual form as soon as the chemistry within the squad is found. The players need more time to know each other well,” he said. In his remarks, Simba striker who netted the final goal on the day Deo Kanda said he was happy to be on the scoreboard and is looking forward to do the same in the upcoming fixtures.