THE transformation of the state-run National Institute of Transport (NIT) into a reputable educational centre in the East African region is slowly gaining momentum by attracting the assistance of the World Bank. Already, the international financial institution that provides loans and grants to the governments of poorer countries for the purpose of pursuing capital projects has extended financial support to NIT to enable it train female drivers capable of operating the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), popularly known as “Mwendokasi”. The new unique bus driver training programme for women was launched in Dar es Salaam this week by the Minister of Works, Transport and Communication Isaack Kamwele. “I have been very pleased to see this unique training programme that aims to build women’s ability to become efficient bus drivers. It should be noted that various studies show that women drivers are more careful when they are on the road. This training is very important in enhancing road safety for the sustainable development of our country,” the minister said when launching the training scheme. The Fifth Phase government has invested heavily in improving and strengthening roads nationwide, including the eight-lane road extension from Kimara to Kibaha now under construction, the building of the Mfugale flyover and the Ubungo interchange as well as the BRT. “These infrastructures, minister Kamwelwe said “require experienced drivers to protect and maintain them.” The female driving course launched on Monday is the first programme of its kind for female drivers in the history of the NIT since its establishment in 1975, according to the institute’s Rector Prof. Zakaria Mganilwa. NIT was established as a training wing of the then National Transport Corporation (NTC). The institute was charged with the responsibility of strengthening human resource capabilities of transport operatives and middle level managers of subsidiary companies of NTC. “The commencement of the female drivers’ training for BRT is the result of the government’s efforts through the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, the World Bank, Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA) and the cooperation of various stakeholders,” Prof Mganillwa said. “I would like to thank all the stakeholders for their collaboration in ensuring that this training begins here at NIT in supporting female drivers.” The special training programme will be offered to 102 female drivers out of 230 drivers who had applied to attend such a course. This training is scheduled to last seven weeks upon which graduates will be eligible for Grade C licence which will enable them operate passenger buses including BRT buses. The African Development Bank (AfDB) has donated 21.1 million US dollars to support Tanzania to reduce accidents by building a regional centre for excellence in road safety that will train professional drivers. Planned to start this year, the centre will also provide training to vehicle inspectors, commercial drivers to professional level as well as driver examiners. “We don’t want to see road carnage at this time when the workforce is highly needed in revitalizing the economy. This is why AfDB has supported us to establish the regional centre for excellence in road safety,” Prof Mganilwa said. The establishment of the centre is part of the Rumonge- Gitaza Road Construction Project (45km) and Kabingo- Kasulu-Manyovu (260km). The AfDB assistance will help NIT in improving the learning and teaching infrastructure -- the construction of the centre’s building, the purchase of training equipment and building the capacity for Traffic Safety Trainers (short and long courses).  NIT Governing Board Chairman Prof Blasius Bavo Nyichomba thanked the government for approving various projects aimed at expanding the institute to enable it attain the set goals. “The launching of today’s training for female drivers who will be operating BRT buses is part of the NIT’s efforts and participation in stimulating the economic development of the country as outlined in the National Development Vision 2025,” he said. “Our institute will continue designing various courses to support the transport sector with a broader national interest at this time when the government is making a number of changes in the sector.” A female driver, Mary Kumalija, said: “We thank the government under President John Pombe Magufuli, the World Bank, stakeholders, NIT and other stakeholders in ensuring that we are well trained to drive BRT buses.” Currently, NIT is under the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications. The institute has a legal status and a Governing Council. It is fully accredited with the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE) to provide Competence Based Education and Training (CBET) programmes at the level of Certificate, Diploma and Degree (National Technical Awards -NTA level 4 to level 8). It is also accredited with Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) to offer Master of Science in Logistics and Transport Management.