PEOPLE living along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region, have been warned against allowing their children to go alone to the lake to either swim or draw water due to an increase in crocodile attacks. The warning came after two students, Athman Madale (7), who was in Standard One at Kalila Primary School and Elizabeth Sankala (15), who was in Form One at Wampembe Secondary School were attacked and killed by crocodiles along the lake’s shore. Speaking during the Nkasi District councilors full Baraza meeting held at Namanyere township, Kabwe Ward Councilor, Asante Lubisha revealed that on the evening of the material day, a group of eight pupils who were on their way back home from school climbed mango trees to pick the fruits. He narrated:"After eating mangoes, Athman went to the lake to wash his hands and suddenly the crocodile attacked and dragged the unsuspecting boy from the shore. “An operation was mounted and the search team found the body of the boy but with the head missing," Mr Lubisha added. According to Mr Lubisha the boy was living with his parents at Mkombe area in Kabwe Ward. He urged relevant authorities to harvest crocodiles whose population had increased considerably and was keeping the people in deep suspense. The Wampembe Ward Executive Officer, Mr Faustine Wakulichamba, told the ‘Daily News’ on the sidelines of the councilors meeting that Elizabeth, who was living with her parents at Kisenga in Kizumbi Ward was attacked and killed by a crocodile while drawing water from the lake. "The young student who was in Form One at Wampembe Secondary went to draw water alone from the lake, and suddenly the crocodile sprung from water and attacked and dragged her from the shore. Her body was retrieved from the lake after two days and had already decomposed," added Mr Wakulichamba . Addressing the councilors meeting, the Nkasi District Executive Director, Mr Missana Kwangula, urged the people to take precaution measures by not allowing children to go to lake shores alone. "I have been deeply shocked by the bad news of the deaths of young students," the DED added.