THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday raised a concern over the prosecution’s failure to start prosecuting five foreigners and a Tanzanian, who are allegedly linked with kidnapping a Tanzanian billionaire and industrialist, Mohamed Dewji, alias Mo. Principal Resident Magistrate, Huruma Shaidi raised such concern before adjourning the trial to November 25, 2019 in reaction to submissions presented by prosecution and defence. State Attorney, Gloria Mwenda, for the prosecution, had requested for more time to complete the investigations. Advocate Maufudhu Mbagwa, for the accused, informed that his client, Mousa Hamis Twaleb, who is a Tanzanian, is languishing in remand for over a year now and the prosecution has not yet provided any progress of the case, including arresting the five foreigners implicated in the kidnapping of Mo. It was at that point in time when the magistrate chipped in, questioning the prosecution whether they have arrested the highly wanted foreigners. “If possible, you can proceed with the current accused in the areas he is involved rather than continuing with a charge of all accused persons while you do not know when will you arrest them,” the magistrate said. Upon their arrest, the foreigners would be joined into trial facing Twaleb, a Tanzanian Taxi Driver. They are Phila Tshabalala, alias Mr Phila, a South African and Henrique Alberto Simbine, Daniel Bernardo Manchice, Isaac Jaime Tomo and Zacarious Obasando Junior, who are all Mozambique nationals. The prosecution alleges that on diverse dates between May 1 and October 10, 2018 at various places within the City of Dar es Salaam in the United Republic of Tanzania and Johannesburg in the Republic of South Africa, knowingly, the accused furnished assistance in the conduct of affairs of a criminal racket. It is alleged by the prosecution that the accused had the intent of either to reap profit or other benefit from such act. The court heard that on October 11, 2018 at Collosseum Hotel areas within Kinondoni Municipality, jointly and together with other people not in court, the accused kidnapped Mo. The prosecution told the court that the accused committed such offence with intent to cause the prominent businessman to be secretly and wrongfully confined. Twaleb was charged alone with offence of money laundering, which is alleged to have been committed on July 10, 2018 at Mbezi Beach area. It is alleged that the accused acquired 8m/-, while at the time of receipt he knew that the said money was proceed of a predicate offence of participating in an organised group and racketeering. The police are in records as announcing that MO, the 17th richest and youngest billionaire in Africa, was abducted by the unknown armed people as he attended fitness session at the Colosseum Hotel and Fitness Club in Dar es Salaam.