A13-year old girl, Amina Shaban, (not her real name), dropped out of school last year after her step father Said Nassoro aged 66 years molested and impregnated her. However, Nassoro was arraigned and thanks to Ilala District Court, he was jailed 30 years this month. The incident happened last year when the girl was in Standard Six at the Dar es Salaambased Kivule Primary School. District Court Magistrate Flora Mujaya said she was satisfied with the prosecution evidence beyond reasonable doubt that Nassoro committed the offence. After the court session, the teenage girl narrated the way her dream of becoming a medical doctor had diminished. “We live in Kivule. My mother is a vegetable grower and seller. She usually wakes up early in the morning and goes to work. One day, as I was preparing to go school, my step father followed me in my bedroom and pushed me on the bed. He then got me in a stranglehold and sexually assaulted me and consequently impregnated me. I have already given birth to a baby boy who is nine months old now,” she said. She recounted that after the incidence, she had heavy bleeding as it was her first time to be sexually assaulted. Seeing the breeding, the step father took a piece of cloth and rubbed the blood while telling her to go for a bath. She then feeling deeply shamed, she went to school with his step father insisting that he would kill her if she told her mother about it. “I left for school although I was in great pain and continued bleeding. It was the sanitation towels put in one of the school latrines that saved me. After classes, I returned home, but I was afraid of telling anybody what had happened,” she narrated as tears rolled down her cheeks. As days passed by the girl kept her it secret until her mother discovered something was wrong with her daughter. The mother said what made her suspect there was something wrong with her daughter were pregnancy signs such as breast swelling and the belly looking bigger than usual. She decided to take her for a pregnancy test which showed positive results with the girl knowing nothing about her situation. “I was about to faint when my daughter told me that it was my husband who molested her. We are certain that he is the real father of my grandson as the court had ordered a DNA test and the results showed so,” she said, adding that: “We then went for legal aid with support from the ten-cell leader and the local government chairperson. My daughter is supposed to sit for final primary school exams this year and was doing well in class. Even her teachers can testify how best she was in class.” Ms Mussa expressed her gratitude to the court, saying she didn’t know the court could have arrived at such a judgment. She stressed that her daughter’s dropout of school pained her (mother) a lot given the fact she was very committed to studies. “You can imagine how committed she was as even with her bleeding and in great pain she still went to school,” she stressed. The girl herself has appealed to well-wishers to help her go back to school and enable her to realise her dream. “My biological father disserted us. I want to go to school so that I may help my mother,” she reiterated. The US-based Urban Child Institute (UCI) comments on teenage pregnancy, saying adolescents who become parents often lack key life skills and resources that are vital to the parenting process. This sad reality is supported by research, shows that on average children who are born to teen parents are less likely to realise their full potential. The effects of teenage pregnancy on the parent, baby and community can be devastating. The UCI further states that adolescent parenting is one of the major risk factors associated with early childhood development. In addition to its other effects, teen parenting is likely to hinder a child’s social and emotional wellbeing. When a baby is born to a teenage mother, he or she is likely to have more difficulty acquiring cognitive and language skills as well as social and emotional skills like selfcontrol and self-confidence. These abilities are already developing in infancy, and they are essential for school readiness, according to the UCI. Studies on early childhood development find that adolescent mothers (19 years of age and younger) are less likely than older ones to engage in emotionally supportive and responsive parenting. They tend to have less knowledge of child development and effective parenting and often misjudge their infant or toddler’s ability to adapt and learn. “We don’t need research to prove that, generally speaking, age brings maturity, self-assuredness, knowledge and experience. By the age of 21, one has typically graduated from high school and is pursuing post-secondary education or participating in the workforce (or both),” reads part of the UCI on-line materials, adding that: “When a baby is born to an adolescent mother, there are several interrelated risk factors at play, meaning that the likelihood that one or more unfortunate outcomes will occur is stronger.”