TANZANIA will for the first time today host the Full Gospel Business Men’s Fellowship International (FGBMFI) East African convention here in Arusha. The three-day gathering which features 700 businessmen and women from the East African zone as well from Southern and Western Africa, seeks to facilitating the participation of international business players. “Leadership and mentoring will be the cross cutting theme of the convention with emphasis on the power of unity,” explained FGBMFI’s country representative, Mr Jaggy Singh at a press conference held here yesterday. Mr Singh, who is also convention’s coordinator noted that the gathering will focus on a number of activities such as teachings and trainings on different subjects, with a particular emphasis on business which will also include a special business forum for the participants. During the forum, potential investors will be afforded the opportunity of obtaining first-hand information from government officials about the investment avenues available in Tanzania. “Government representatives responsible for business, trade and industries will also provide information on the mechanisms of linking pertinent bodies fast-tracking business registrations and how to effectively and efficiently conduct business in the country,” he emphasized. According to Mr Singh, the forum will also feature international speakers and prominent businessmen and women who have made it in life, with a view of sharing the journeys to success. He added: The convention will enable the sharing of practical business experiences among various countries and application of best practices across the continent. A Nigerian motivational speaker and FGBMFI member, Mr Mike Adegun described the country as an abundance of business opportunities, urging Tanzanians and other nationals to turn up in numbers for the business convention. “There are some many business opportunities in Tanzania, we will therefore offer participants ways of exploring and making the most of such opportunities,” said Mr Adegun. He added that the gathering will also provide an opportunity for networking with businessmen and government officials from several countries with diverse backgrounds and establish contacts for immediate and future collaborations. Present in over 85 nations and with thousands of chapters globally, FGBMFI, which is one of the largest businessmen networks on the globe, aspires to making a real difference in the lives of people all around the world.