THE new ambassadors appointed recently by President John Magufuli have pledged to use economic diplomacy to attract more investments into the export processing zones and special economic zones. Speaking on behalf of the other envoys after touring the Export and Processing Zones Authority and some industries at the export processing zones, in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, Maimuna Tarishi said promoting investment opportunities to the countries they are posted is of top priority. “Attracting more investors to undertake investments in the country’s industrial sector is one of our topmost obligations in these countries,” she said after the presentation by the EPZA Director of Investment Promotion and Facilitation, James Maziku. She added, this is why we have visited the authority to learn and get more information that will enable us facilitate more investments needed for building strong industrial economy. Mr Tarishi said the focus is on advancing economic diplomacy to attain industrialisation goals at the country envisioned to become middle income status in 2025. The envoys were impressed by the Tooku Garments Company Limited that produces clothing for the US market and creating over 2,600 jobs. The factory is set to increase production to 800 pieces of jeans monthly by March next year while demand is 1,000 pieces of jeans. The new ambassador and former Tanzania Intelligence and Security Services Director General Dr Modestus Kipilimba commended the projected implemented under EPZ particularly the Tooku Garments Company but expressed worries on sourcing raw materials from outside. According to Mr Maziku the Tooku Garments Company told them that making fabrics within the country sufficient to meet the factory demand is very expensive and need huge investment. “There is need to have more garments factories that will attract investors to invest in fabrics within the country,” he said. The other envoy Mr Gaudence Milanzi (rtd Major General and Permanent Secretary) said the industrialisation programme is at the hands of EPZA to coordinate and promote the country’s investment opportunities. “Due to the push of the economic diplomacy, we will keep in touch with the EPZA in order to identify and promote various investment opportunities in the countries we are posted,” he said. Recently, the Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, said Tanzania’s embassies have been directed to play a pivotal role in attracting more tourists and investors to the country. He said one of the benefits of economic diplomacy includes the partnership between Tanzania and Egypt in the construction of a meat processing plant in Tanzania that will have the capacity of slaughtering 1,000 cattle and 4,500 goats/sheep daily, is to be set up in Coast Region. The government has also identified investors from France, the US and Luxembourg, who will invest in cassava processing in Lindi Region through a company known as Cassava Starch of Tanzania Corporation.