HEFTY prizes including a brand new car will be up for grab for winners of the forthcoming Tanzania Open Golf Championship. The prestigious event is scheduled to tee off at the Kili Golf Club course in Arusha from tomorrow and wind up on Sunday. The 72 holes annual competition is organised by Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) and will draw top amateur and professional golfers from Uganda, Kenya, Zambia, Malawi, South Africa and hosts Tanzania. TGU president Chris Martin told the ‘Daily News’ from Arusha on Wednesday that preparations for the competition to tee off are being finalised. Martin said that they are lucky to have several sponsors, who have stepped in to bankroll the event. He named sponsors as Superdoll, Hanspaul, Precision Air, Oryx Energy, Cocacola, Tanfoam Arusha, GARDAWORLD, Kilimanjaro Water, The Arusha Hotel, Mnet Insurance Brokers and Serengeti. “The sponsors have provided among others fabulous prizes including a brand new car which awaits golfer who will manage hole in one at chosen par 3 hole during the competition,” Martin said. Other prizes according to Martin include 40 and 32 inch TV sets, free Precision Air tickets, five brand new car tyres, tablets and phones to winners of different categories. He said professional golfers and amateurs from handicap nine and below will battle it out for 72 holes, while other divisions will compete for 36 holes. He said there will be no ladies category this time around. “It is going to be an exciting competition, we believe that hefty prizes will also motivate competitors and make the event stiff for everyone,” he said. Organisers have set 30,000/- as entry fee for local golfers and USD 50 is entry for foreign golfers. Amateur defending champion Victor Joseph, who is the national golf team captain, is already in Arusha to defend the title. However, the tournament will miss Kenyan Edwin Mudanyi, who shared the title with Joseph last year. The two tied with aggregate 296 gross after four rounds of 72 holes to force playoff, in which both went to par-3 no. 18 twice without a winner before darkness ended it all and organisers decided to split the title into two. Mudanyi has turned professional. Professional golfer defending the champion is South African Zimbabweanbased Ryan Cairns, who won top prize with aggregate 291 (73, 73, 73 and 72).