THE national wide campaign to revive athletics so that Tanzania wins medals in the Tokyo Olympic Games of 2020 seems to be a pipe-dream with only a few months before the games start. The campaign that was initially started after Alphonce Simbu finished fifth in the games staged in Rio de Janeiro in 2016 has been just a media job as very little, or nothing has been done so far. We expected by this time to see many activities from athletes and sportsmen and women seeking qualification for the 2020 games, but instead we continue to see news of Simba and Young Africans dominating the sports pages. While we see the sports’ governing bodies as the key innovators, the athletes themselves are the major players. From the hosts Japan, the campaign for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games had received a major boost from Nagai, the city that will host our Olympic team, athletes and sports governing bodies must take this as a wake-up call by intensifying preparations. The Japanese city will provide various training facilities and programmes before the summer event takes off. We are grateful to Nagai city for becoming the host of Team Tanzania and good motivation it has given us, therefore we should take this offer seriously and prepare well our athletes to enable them win medals. We have seen how the city is committed to ensure the success of Tanzania in the games, and the words of the city’s Mayor Uchiya have an urgent note to us. The mayor believes the success of Tanzanian team in games can strengthen the relationship between Tanzania and Nagai city and Japan in general and that, his city wishes to continue supporting the country even after the Olympic games. We insist our athletes or Olympic games aspirants to utilize Nagai city support in upgrading their performance to meet the Olympic standards. We would also like to advise the Tanzania Olympic Committee to ensure the number of athletes in the event is increased by monitoring closely the sports, which have been picked for the event and giving them financial and technical supports. We know and our athletes know that winning medals in Olympics will be possible only if many athletes meet the qualification standards set for the Games. We end up reminding all Tanzanians to be part of the Tokyo 2020 mission by supporting and motivating those who will represent us there.