THE National Environment Management Council (NEMC) has called on local authorities and prospective investors in all categories of industries to value urban planning guidelines for the good of the nation and avoid establishing industrial plants in residential areas. Speaking to journalists here on his tour of Mwanza Region to acquaint himself with production and marketing of carrier bags in the Lake Zone, the NEMC Director General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka, said Tanzanian laws relating to urban development were quite detailed and explicit. The problem, was non-adherence to those laws and regulations, he said adding that laws were meant to protect the people and environment. “Our tour and experience show that in many cases local authorities, investors and entrepreneurs take things for granted; they do not observe laws and regulations governing urban development. As a result all types of industries are established in residential areas. We cannot allow this because laws and regulations are quite detailed and explicit,” Dr Gwamaka warned. He appealed to local authorities, prospective investors and business people to establish industrial plants and allied business in areas set aside for the purpose, not otherwise. “Industrial plants established in residential areas against the law, disturb innocent residents in different ways; they create noise, foul or disgusting smell and pollute environment.” The DG said having industrial plants in designated places has several advantages including accessibility, environment protection monitoring, and census of industries countrywide, further explaining that urban centres will grow in good fashion by respecting all laws. He called for strong cooperation between public and private sectors in planning urban development. Dr Gwamaka visited Chilya’s Tubing, one the plants producing carrier bags. The company owner, Mr Spenas Masatu, welcomed the visit of NEMC delegation. “They are giving us very useful guidelines and education. I am planning to relocate our industrial plant to the area set aside for industries,” Mr Masatu promised.