DEPUTY Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment) Musa Sima has ordered a firm processing natural gas in Mtwara Rural District to get as soon as possible the Environment Compliance Plan (ECP) as required by the Environmental Management Act of 2004 and its Regulations. The company is called Maurel & Prom Exploration Production. The deputy minister, on a four-day tour of Mtwara Region, is visiting different natural gas projects to see whether the laws are being observed. Mr Sima said on Monday that he told owners of the plant that section four of the Regulations made under the EMA, requires owners of industries to have an elaborate scheme on how gas emissions into the air are regulated. Such a plan, he said, would help the government to know how much of the unwanted gases are emitted into the atmosphere by Tanzania. The ECP is issued by the National Environment Management Council (NEMC). The deputy minister said people were innocently happy and positive about having the plant’s infrastructure in their areas, but had not been told about the negative side-effects of having such infrastructure in their midst and how to protect themselves in the event of accident. “We want the owners to immediately give residents appropriate education on the side-effects and how to protect themselves in the event of problems,” he said, reminding owners that their delivery infrastructure passed through 64 villages before reaching Dar es Salaam city. The deputy minister also said all owners of industries must observe the law and meet conditions set out to regulate gas emissions. Owners who will violate the law will be punished legally, he warned. The Chairman of NEMC Board of Directors, Professor Esnati Chaggu said it was the responsibility of every individual to protect and preserve environment. “Our responsibility as NEMC is to spread education on who to protect the environment, so that the environment remains friendly to this and coming generations,” she said. NEMC Director General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka, said having natural gas was a blessing to Tanzania and called on Tanzanians to change household habits by switching from use of fuel wood charcoal to use natural gas. He also called on investors to consult the council because, he said, the law and NEMC was not an obstacle standing in their way.