TANZANIA Electrical Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency (TEMESA) plans to introduce Motor vehicle Maintenance Information System, which will help to re-register and identify publicly owned vehicles countrywide. Briefing reporters on the project that is on the pipeline, TEMESA Chief Executive Officer Engineer Japhet Maselle said the new system will register all state owned vehicles and come up with a database that will recognise all parked and travelling cars. So far, he said, it is difficult to identify all the state owned motor vehicles but with the new system, one will easily log into the data base and identify all cars owned by every institution. “The new system will equally detect motor vehicles whose kilometres for service have been extended to identify drivers and institutions that do not service their vehicles and bring them to scrutiny,’’ he said. Engineer Maselle further said the new system will also do billing system of motor vehicles, hinting that the pilot project of the system will start with three regions of Dar es Salaam, Iringa and Dodoma. Few days ago, the developer who had been contracted on consultancy services at 300m/- made his presentation before TEMESA team of experts in Morogoro. In the same vein, Engineer Maselle said TEMESA was equally planning to come up with Vehicle Inspection Mandatory Workshops countrywide, which will help reduce unnecessary accidents. The workshops will be doing regular inspections to identify roadworthy cars. “The National Institute of Transport (NIT) and police through the traffic department are doing the same but still we have had several accidents due to defective motor vehicles that are not roadworthy,’’ he said. According to Engineer Maselle, when the eagerly awaited workshops start operations, the roads countrywide will have longer life span and pollution in the roads will be avoided. He cited Japan, which he said by having similar workshop the country had made tremendous strides. “That is why you see many used Japanese motor vehicles flocking the African market because they cannot be allowed to operate in the Japanese roads,’’ he said.