A FEW Decades ago, riding on private car was seen as a symbol of luxury by Tanzanians, but that perception is apparently outdated at the moment. There is a considerably high transformation of the Tanzanian society, which is increasingly becoming mechanised, with many people embracing modernity. Nowadays, everyone is keen to drive private cars, and would jump at every available opportunity to try and purchase a car of his or her choice. Cars are no longer luxury items, but a basic requirement for the working class as well as young entrepreneurs. Petty traders and up-and-coming entrepreneurs prefer riding in their private cars rather than wrestling for public service vehicles. “Driving a private car not only makes my mobility easier and enjoyable, but also saves me a lot of time, I don’t have to waste time at bus stops,” says Salum Rashid, a businessman in the busy city of Dar es Salaam. Peter Jacob, another resident of the city, on his part says despite the fact that he has to dig a bit deeper into his pocket in a month to drive his own car, life has become easier compared to when he used to scramble for public transport. Economic growth, population growth, rapid suburbanisation, and less developed public transit systems have led to more reliance on personal vehicles for transportation. The number of cars and trucks in Tanzania has increased dramatically, as did the number of highways. Currently there are more than 2.16 million cars on Tanzanian roads. Amid this rapid increase of motor vehicles, health and transport stakeholders are concerned over the resultant air pollution, especially in cities, that has serious impacts on public health and the environment. They are advocating for sustainable transport, arguing that transport systems should be sustainable by enabling the society to satisfy its present needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. According to studies, overuse of private motor vehicles affects the environment through air and noise pollution, which contributes to climate change. “Transport is a leading contributor to greenhouse gas emissions,” says Thabit Mlangi from Chief Parliamentary Draftsmen Office. He was presenting a paper on Legislative and policy principles for Sustainable Transport during a workshop for Members of Parliament organised by Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA) in Dodoma recently. About 80 percent of transport energy use is due to land transport attributed to light duty vehicles such as cars, revealed Mr Mlangi, adding that motor vehicles were responsible for around 70 percent of air pollution in many of the world’s major cities. In order to protect and affect the environment less, he said it was important that governments directed more efforts in minimizing private car and motorcycle use. “We need to promote the use of public transport, cycling and walking,” said Mlangi. Among key principles of sustainable transport is that the transport system should be accessible for all, thus, serve the marginalised and devote most investment to the mobility of affluent vehicle owners. “Social equity demands that the highest priority should go to public transport, walking and non-motorised vehicles that are accessible to almost everyone and with minimal impacts,” says Mlangi. The safest transport system, he says, should provide plentiful public transport and facilities for cyclists and pedestrian crossings. “The purpose of transport is to provide access to the contacts, services and goods that we all need in an equitable, low-cost and low-impact way,” he says. Advocate Gaspardus Rwebangira on the other hand says nations should promote sustainable transport, thus develop a transport system that would not only ensure destinations remain within easy reach, but also allow the public to have plentiful transport choices, non-motorized transport, public transport and para-transit. “The safest transport system should provide plentiful public transport and facilities for cyclists and pedestrian crossings,” says Rwebangira. Participatory approach is important in planning and execution of these projects. Key stakeholders such as NGOs, CBOs and civil societies should be involved in the planning process. “We should not leave everything to experts,” argues Rwebangira, adding that advocacy is needed in order to divert government attention to business owners, motorists and truckers. Sustainable transport is viewed as a cost efficient solution to transport challenges. Mlangi says the most sustainable, people- centered and equitable transport policies are low cost and include restraint of the highest-cost mode of transport–the private car. For her side, Tawla Director, Tike Mwambipile explained the role of CSOs in improving road safety and mobility, saying for the past three years, the coalition has been advocating for legal and policy reforms, with a view to make roads safer. “We will continue to work with our members, the government and lawmakers and all interested parties to advocate for sustainable mobility,” she said. The Chairman of the Parliamentary Network for road safety in Tanzania, Ambassador Adadi Rajab, says more needs to be done to fight against climate change. “The role of public transport and sustainable mobility in this action is of paramount importance,” said the Muheza legislator. Tanzania is probably heading towards the right direction, as the government has started developing cost effective transport systems for all. The Dar es Salaam Bus Rapid Transit system that began operations in May, 2016, provides a good example of initiatives taken to improve public transport. The transit system consists of six phases, and the construction of the first phase began in April 2012 as the government sought to enhance mobility, safety, comfort and clean environment. Despite some operational challenges, when in full swing, the BRT will go a long way towards improving air quality by displacing polluting vehicles, reducing private vehicle use and increase road safety, via fewer vehicles and better roads.