TANZANIA’S founding President, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, was for sure one of the country’s leading advertisers. His attributes were varied, including a very sharp mind, whose manifestations included powerful speeches at international fora that included United Nations meetings. Testimonies to the sharpness was drawn, from among other quarters, some of his college mates during his youthful era. Some of those who were interviewed recalled that, the iconic leader who eventually became the Father of the Nation, was a great debater and cool-headed, not undermining colleagues and placing much premium on the value of fellow human beings. Inevitably, the English language was the medium of interaction in the international political and other spheres. Mwalimu’s command of the language was superb and came in handy during the anti-colonial struggle and during the liberation struggle for the independence of African countries whose independence was delayed. Within groupings such as the Organisation of African Unity and the Frontline States, Mwalimu’s voice was one of the most articulate-and in English. At home, though, he was a master at Kiswahili, the national language, which he applied forcefully and successfully as a unifying agent for the country’s over 120 tribes. Surely, Tanzania has played a significant role in the language’s promotion. It is indeed mainly thanks to that, that Kiswahili has been popularised, not just within the continent, but far beyond. The Southern African Development Conference adopted Kiswahili as its fourth official language during its latest summit in Dar es Salaam last August, joining English, Portuguese and French as a medium of communication. More recently, the Speaker of Tanzania’s National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai, presided over the introduction of standing orders in Kenya’s Parliament in Kiswahili. Beyond the seas, the International Studies University (SISU) in Eastern China has introduced a degree programme in the language. Kiswahili, then, is a language to be reckoned with. One trend is a big spoiler, though; The essentially beautiful language is literally butchered through sneaking onto it, diluted aspects, creating what is variously called Kiswanglish, Kiswakinge and Kiswangereza. An earnest war must be waged against the trend, not only to preserve the language’s purity, but both protect and promote it as a highly respected means of communication. The thrust should be to both consolidate national integrity and as a tribute to Father of the Nation Mwalimu Nyerere.