MINISTER of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama, has welcomed the introduction of the Government e-Payment Gateway (GePG) system in the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), saying that the move will encourage among others, timely benefit payments to its members. The system will also promote timely submission of the members’ contributions to the Fund, by the employers, said the Minister when opening the 45th meeting of the NSSF Workers Council, in Morogoro over the weekend. She directed NSSF to never disturb the retirees when making follow-ups on their benefits, stressing that they (retirees) should be served in time and in accordance with the laws. “The Council should assess the workers’ accountability and take legal actions against all those who fail to meet the targets,” the minister directed. She urged NSSF to intensify the members’ registration exercise; given the fact that private sector has a huge number of members who are supposed to join the Fund. “Staff should not stay in offices but go to the field for new members’ registration. The government has decided to switch to an industrial economy. Most industries are owned by the private sector, whose workers should be NSSF members; therefore you should use the opportunity to register as many members as possible,” she said. Chairman for the NSSF Board of directors, Balozi Siwa, supported the motion, saying that the Fund’s target was to register 119,749 members in the 2018/2019 year. As of March, this year, about 98,969 new members, equal to over 82 per cent, were registered. He further revealed that NSSF collected 594.94bn/- from its members, which is 104.38 per cent of the targeted 570bn/-. “The Fund released 294.81bn/- of various benefits to its members. The target for 2019/2020 is to register 210,000 new members and collecting 1.28tr/- contributions. The Fund is also set to invest about 860.4bn/- in various areas, including in Mkulazi sugar project.