INCREASE in loans, advances and overdraft pushed up the total assets of the banking system to 28.83tri/- in the year ended April compared to 28.58tri/- registered in the corresponding period last year. According to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Monetary Policy Statement loans, advances and overdraft increased by 608bn/- from the stock of 14.51tri/- posted at the end of June last year. Banks’ asset quality improved though Non- Performing Loans (NPLs) ratio remained high at 11.1 per cent in April compared to 11.6 per cent in the corresponding period last year which were both above the desired level of not more than 5.0 per cent. The ratio of core capital to total risk weighted assets and off-balance sheet exposures was 17 per cent at the end of April compared with the minimum legal requirement of 10 per cent, while that of liquid assets to demand liabilities stood at 33.6 per cent compared with the minimum regulatory requirement of 20 per cent. BoT continues to take measures to ensure low NPLs targeted at the supervision of banks, directives to banks and financial institutions to ensure usage of credit reference system and improve credit assessment of borrowers by considering changes in both micro and macroeconomic factors. In addition, sensitization of stakeholders about credit information sharing and its importance in lending and financial planning launched on February may influence borrowing behaviour and subsequently increase credit to the private sector and reduce lending rates. Furthermore, the central bank has intensified enforcement of prudential requirements including those relating to risk management in a bid to contain NPLs. Some regulations and guidelines have also been reviewed to take into account new developments and improve corporate governance in banking institutions. These include guidelines for directors of banks and financial institutions, the outsourcing guidelines and business continuity management guidelines. Capital adequacy, liquidity and prompt corrective actions regulations are also under review to incorporate Basel II/III requirements.