OVER 400 residents in Dar es Salaam are set for a five day free entrepreneurship training aimed at empowering and preparing them to engage fully in achieving the 2025 goal of middle income economy. Organised by Bethel Mission Pre and Primary School, which is owned by the Seventh Day Adventist located at Makuburi, Ubungo, the training is aimed at enabling residents and the community surrounding the school, including its 32 employees with entrepreneurship skills. The training that started yesterday and will end on Friday is said to be of exemplary by the Youths Committee Secretary of the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) Mr Jafari Kunambi who launched the programme on behalf of Member of Parliament for Kinondoni Municipal said. “This is a great initiative that I would be glad to introduce the idea to the municipal so that we conduct something similar to help our community increase their income and for our country to achieve the middle income economy.” Towards the progress to an industrial middle income economy it is important to have such entrepreneurs who rise and use what they have to help others, he noted. The training will focus on at least 17 different things including making soap, carpets, baking, and mushroom growing, and has brought together various trainers from CRDB Bank and other key entrepreneurial experts. The Director of the school Mr Emmanuel Mshana said that the idea came after realising that the community lacks the ways to assist the school and generating income in the process. Adding, “We also thought of our employees who depended on the salary and had to ask for loans often, realising they do not only need salary increase but they need to be given ways to generate more income.” The first seminar which involved only the employees was conducted on April this year. “As of current most of the schools’ employees are also entrepreneurs who supply for the school goods like sunflower oil, food crops, and soap. They get extra income and assist the school.”