A RESIDENT of Iringa Region, Festo Mgimwa, is to remain behind bars for 30 years for incest after having sexual intercourse with his own daughter aged 13 years. This follows the decision of the Court of Appeal to dismiss the appeal under which Mgimwa, the appellant, had lodged to challenge both conviction and the sentence imposed on him by the trial court and later upheld by the High Court. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Shaban Lila and Ferdinand Wambali were satisfied that the prosecution case was proved beyond reasonable doubt and, thus, dismissed the complaints of the appellant. According to them, in a charge of incest by males, the prosecution must prove that the accused knew the female as his grandmother, daughter, sister or mother at the time of sexual intercourse. “In the present case, the prosecution sufficiently proved that the appellant had carnal knowledge of (the victim), while knowing that she is his daughter. He has never stated in his defense that he mistook the identity of the victim with whom he had sexual intercourse to another girl or woman,” they said. In his defense, the justices noted, apart from denying the involvement in the commission of the crime, he only alleged that the charge was framed up due to the strained relation with the victim’s mother, his former wife. They closely scrutinized the record and found that the victim gave a detailed account of how the appellant instructed her to go home from the market and later followed her and ordered her to go towards Ilala road, and he followed her up to a hill where he later committed the shameful act. They also observed, “(The victim), did not only identify the appellant at the scene but gave a detailed account of how the incident occurred. According to the record, the appellant did not dispute the fact that the (victim) is her daughter.” The justices pointed out that in the circumstances of the case where the best evidence of commission of sexual offence emanates from the victim. They were satisfied that the trial court and as confirmed by the High Court, properly convicted the appellant as per the Law of Evidence Act. Facts show that on November 4, 2013 at Ilala area within the Municipality of Iringa in Iringa Region, the appellant had carnal knowledge of the girl aged 13 years who is also his biological daughter. The appellant defended himself and denied any involvement in the commission of the offence of incest by males, as he stated that he could not have committed the act against his own daughter. Nevertheless, at the end of the trial, the District Court was fully satisfied that the appellant could not exonerate himself from the commission of the offence, and thus it convicted and sentenced him to 30 years imprisonment and pay 500,000/-compensation to the victim.