EXPECTATION was high as the national golf team coach left yesterday for Burundian capital Bujumbura ready for the Region 4 championship battle. The strong national team squad captained by Victor Joseph from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC), included Richard Mtweve of Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) Golf Club of Dar es Salaam, Ali Mcharo from TPC Moshi and Abbas Adam from Moshi Gymkhana Club left in a private car for the tough mission against other East African neighbours. Formerly known as East African Challenge Trophy, the annual Region 4 event is scheduled to be held from June 5 to 9 this year at Bujumbura Golf Club. National golf team coach professional golfer Fadhil Nkya and captain Joseph both expressed their desire to bring home the lost glory this time around. Nkya, who will join the team tomorrow as he was finalising some team’s issues yesterday, said his team is well drilled for the tough battle. “Thanks God all players are in good health, looking forward for the challenge ahead of them, they have left by a private car which will be used by the team during its stay in Burundi,” he said. Nkya, however, said that he is blessed with a strong team which he said is very capable of winning the trophy that this country last won in 2002 in Arusha. “Youths are in very good shape, we are going there to lift the title. All we need is prayers,” he added. Joseph speaking to this paper while on the way yesterday echoed his coach said that they are all ready. “We are ready for a fight, nothing less than returning home with trophy come across to our mind; we want to bring this honour.” The team camped at the Lugalo for about a week before heading to Bujumbura. The Format of play in Day one will be a Stroke Play competition, Day two is Foursomes and Singles while Day three will be Foursomes and Singles again. If the team manages to win championship, it will be a special moment for the coach Nkya who took the coaching role this year from Hassan Kadio. Nkya was among the national team members when Tanzania won the regional title in 2002 under coach Salim Mwanyenza. Other countries heading for Region 4 championship include the hosts Burundi who are the defending champions Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda and Ethiopia.