THE Internet Society (ISOC) has advised the Tanzanians to use the internet for generating income instead of misusing by posting unnecessary issues that cannot profit them economically. Speaking recently in Dar es Salaam, the Society’s Secretary General, Mr Nazarius Nicholas has advised members of the public especially youths to use the opportunity of internet technology to create legally own jobs instead of keep blaming the government on the challenge of employment. He issued the advice during a workshop on multi-stakeholder framework to internet governance and gender digital divide “promoting inclusivity”. The event organised by ISOC and held in Dar es Salaam. “I am very sad when I visit various social networks and witness young people wests their time and money of buying internet bundles for posting and discussing unprofitable issues for their personal economic development,” he said. He further advised that in this digital life there many opportunity of generating legally money through internet and social networks. He advised youths and general public to use internet by learning various opportunities of entrepreneurship from the successful people worldwide. Commenting on the same issue during an interview with the ‘Daily News’, a young woman identified as Agnes Baharia said she is employed by a telecommunication company but uses internet for generating extra money by advertising and selling online separate shop items through social networks. She said may be because of lack of education of proper uses of internet and social networks leads some youths waste their time to post nonprofit issues economically on their social networks. Speaking on the workshop Mr Nicholas said multi-stakeholder internet governance is a fresh approach to the development of public policy, bringing together of all key stakeholders including the government as well as the private sector, civil society, the academia and the end user. ISOC is a global non-profit organisation with presence in more than 130 countries worldwide. The Society supports and promotes the development of the internet as global infrastructure, a resource to enrich people’s lives and a force for good in society as well as advocate for internet that is accessible to everyone.