TWO International foreign companies—Honda Motors Japan and Honda South Africa (PTY) Limited—are today expected to appear before the High Court’s Commercial Division over a commercial dispute lodged by Quality Motors Limited against them. Late last month, the court summoned the companies, to answer claims on the 35 mil-lion US dollars (over 70bn/-) damages for allegedly terminating dealership agreement with Quality Motors Limited. In the summons, the companies have been directed to show up on June 17, 2019, in person or by an advocate or agent dully authorised. “Take note that the plaintiff has instituted a suit against you with particulars of the claim set out in the plaint. Should you default to enter appearance in court on the date and time mentioned, the suit will proceed and judgment may be given in your absence,” reads the May 22, 2019 dated summons. Already, the court under Judge Patricia Fikirini has granted an exparte order for “maintenance of status quo” against the two defendants in the suit, their agents, servants, assignees, employees, contributories, assistants or any other person. The order is with the effect of restraining them from interfering Quality Motors Limited, the plaintiff, of her sole dealership promotion of Honda Motor Vehicles, parts and accessories in Tanzania, in any manner whatsoever, pending determination of the matter inter-parte. The court also restrained the respondents jointly and severally from selling, providing services of spare parts and accessories of Honda Motor Vehicles to any person or company in Tanzania, pending the hearing and determination of application for injunctive orders on June 18, 2019. Through his advocates Abbriaty Kivea and Yassin Maka from Stallion Attorneys, the plaintiff, apart from the monetary reliefs, is further seeking for declaration that the defendants’ action of ceasing the dealership with Honda has deliberately and fraudulently adversely subjected him to financial loss. The plaintiff also claims for declaration that Honda South Africa (PTY) Limited’s action of ceasing the dealership without proper cause amounted to breach of contract and that the notice published in the media and circulated in the country has tarnished his image and ruined his business reputation. It is stated in the plaint that the relationship between Honda Motors Japan and Quality Motors Limited, which is owned by prominent businessman Yusuf Manji, commenced in 1999 when the plaintiff started representing Honda Brands in Tanzania through an agent Itochu Corporation, Japan. According to the plaint, it was Honda Motors Japan views at the time that Africa in general and Tanzania in particular was a negligible market and did not want its direct interaction or investment. From the time, the plaintiff solely shouldered the entire responsibility of promoting Honda brands in Tanzania’s market. In 2005, Honda Motors Japan realised the potential of the African market and decided to dispense with their agents Itochu Corporation, Japan and entered directly into a Distributorship Agreement with the plaintiff, which came into effect in February 2006, providing for its automatic renewal. The agreement, it’s stated, was to be terminated by written notice by the parties. Despite the change, there was no tangible support like warranty, training of workshop staff and marketing paraphernalia that was given by the foreign company to the plaintiff. All over the years, the plaintiff was allegedly singlehandedly managing the Tanzanian market and finally positioned Honda as a reputable brand in the country. The increasing potential of Africa and extension of Honda products made Honda Motors Japan to form the Honda South Africa (PTY) Limited. It’s further stated that Honda Motors Japan communicated to all distributors in Africa, including the plaintiff that Honda South Africa (PTY) Limited was going forward to be the distributor with deceitful promise that the corporate restructuring was to assist entities like the plaintiff.