CHINA-Africa Business Council (Tanzania), has asked Chinese investors to bring in the country modern technology and impart new knowledge to Tanzanians. Chairman of the council, Mr Xian Ding, said one of the good ways to transfer knowledge to locals is through giving opportunities to students to do field attachment and tours. He was speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam at the Huatan Investment Group Ltd. The Huatan animal feeds industry hosted students from College of Agriculture and Natural Resources (CANRE), where a total of 27 students of agriculture made a study tour at the facility located at Pugu, on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam. The industry produces animal feeds and also offers advice for better livestock keeping to farmers. Mr Xian said friendship between China and Tanzania goes a long way, including transfer of knowledge at this time when President John Magufuli gears up to make Tanzania a semiindustrialized country. Speaking to the students who toured the industry, he said it is expected of them to spread the knowledge they obtained from the company and thanked the Tanzania investment Centre (TIC), for opening up doors to investors. The TIC Public Relations Officer, Ms Latifa Kigoda assured those present that TIC facilitates investment projects which benefits the country. She cited one of the means was through the government waiving tax on machinery imported for established industries, noting that the processing machine used by the Huatan Company was among the examples. She called upon investors to ensure that they use such machines for their intended purpose and create employment for more Tanzanians. Director of the Huatan Company, Mr Songjian Xiong, said the industry produces animal feed using raw materials from within the country. One of the farmers, Mr Victor Masweto, admitted that he started getting more milk from his cows after feeding them animal feed from the industry. He said that previously one cow produced 8 liters of milk per day, but after using feed from the industry, the same cow can now produce 18 liters of milk.