JUDGES and magistrates have been challenged to learn and keep themselves updated on the country’s laws and procedural technicalities to ensure timely and due delivery of justice. The call was issued by Zanzibar Chief Justice, Omar Othman Makungu when gracing a two-day symposium for judges and magistrates from Zanzibar magistrate court. “The delivery of justice must be timely, judges and magistrates therefore must be experts in all areas of laws, most notably you should thoroughly study and comprehend the criminal procedural legislation,” Justice Makungu told the participants. The training, funded by UNDP as part of the programme aimed at enhancing justice delivery on the Isles, was administered by the Institute of Judicial Administration Lushoto. CJ Makungu said for effective administration of justice, judges and magistrates must continuously update themselves with new laws and meet new and increasing demands, while adhering to judiciary’s core values. “Judiciary education is very important to keep judges and magistrates updated with new laws, hence induction courses are such a significant tool to ensure the judiciary provides justice in a more effective manner,” he said. He called upon magistrate courts to ensure new magistrates attend induction courses before assuming their new duties. The Zanzibar Chief Justice also urged magistrates and advocates to avoid procedural irregularities, noting that many cases were being dropped as a result of technical provisions. “It is very important that they follow due procedure when delivering decisions in matters of civil and criminal nature, because failure to do so may obstruct dispensation of justice,” said CJ Makungu. He said reversing or dismissal of cases on technicalities is costly, and causes inconvenience to concerned parts. Judge Mbarouk Salum Mbarouk of the Court of Appeal said failure to observe procedural technicalities often obfuscate the process of the timely dispensation of justice. He said almost 40 per cent of appeals submitted to the Court of Appeals had not adhered to technical provisions. The Registrar of High Court, Mohamed Ali Mohamed, underscored the need for magistrates to comprehensively read legal guidelines as provided by the High Court. “The problem is that magistrates are not keen to read guidelines issued by the High Court of Tanzania, we need to learn and follow the guidelines to speed up case determination and ensure due deliverance of justice,” charged the Registrar. He expressed optimism that the training will help improve efficiency in case hearing and the quality of justice service delivery in Zanzibar. Ms Frida Mwakasyuka, Programme Associate UNDP, said the UN organ has been supporting a number of legal development programmes in the country as part of its efforts to strengthen justice delivery and protection of human rights in the country. She commended the Institute of Judicial Administration Lushoto for maintaining its standard, suggesting that the institute is among the best in the region in judiciary education. “We expect positive results after this training, if you keep performing well, it will help us mobilise more resources to support legal development in Tanzania,” said Ms Mwakasyuka.