NATIONAL Institute of Transport (NIT) will start training railway experts in the next six months thanks to a partnership signed with Chinese railway college. The partnership between NIT and Chinese Zhenghou Railway Vocational and Technical College (ZRVTC) was signed yesterday for knowledge transfer. The move goes well with the ongoing country efforts to upgrade railway infrastructures while making NIT the first institution to offer railway related courses in the country. NIT Rector, Prof Zacharia Mganilwa said the envisaged industry-driven economy would need to transport goods from the industries to sea or lake ports through the railway; therefore, it was crucial to produce professionals for the jobs. “In the past, the country used to train people who then work with national railway companies in an area of operations, but now things are different since such experts are also needed in manufacturing sector, research institutions and others,” Prof Mganilwa stated. The NIT and the Chinese college signed a letter of intent in Dar es Salaam, the agreement which would see the two collaborate in exchanging knowledge and experiences in short courses of the railway field. “We hope that this partnership would enable the NIT build its capacity and produce specialists for railway transportation including in areas of policy making, researchers and managers,” he said. The ZRVTC President, Mr Kong Fanshi, said their aim was to strengthen relationship with the NIT, hoping that the relationship would be good and beneficial for the two parties. He said the partnership would result in producing many experts for railway transportation in the future. The signing of the letter of intent would be followed by the signing of the MoU, with Prof Mganilwa noting that they have already submitted the MoU to the ministry of works, Transport and Communications for approval before signing the document. NIT expects implementation of the MoU would begin after six month. Some of the benefits from the agreement include, sending of the lecturers from the NIT to the Chinese College for trainings to build their capacity. Chinese students from the college would also be coming to the NIT for dissertations, which would also be useful in providing answers to some of challenges facing the country’s railway sector. The move also aims at producing the railway transportation experts who would operate professionally in handling cargo and passengers through the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR).