THE Qatar Airways has launched a new flight Dreamliner 787 to Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), signaling a millage in the newly refurbished airport. The huge wide and comfortable aircraft – Series Seven landed at KIA on Saturday in the afternoon. Qatar Airways is the state-owned flag carrier of Qatar, headquartered in the Qatar Airways Tower in Doha. The airline operates a huband- spoke network, linking over 150 international destinations across Africa, Central Asia, Europe, Far East, South Asia, Middle East, North America, South America and Oceania from its base at Hamad International Airport, using a fleet of more than 200 aircraft. Speaking after landing with a red carpet welcome, the Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company (KADCO) Managing Director, Engineer Christopher Mukoma, said that the aircraft would be landing at KIA daily from Qatar then to Dar es Salaam and back to Qatar. “We are happy to receive the Dreamliner 787 Seventh Series owned by Qatar Airways that would be flying in on daily basis from Doha, Qatar. It would hugely increase our revenue as well as passengers. It is a wide aircraft, very comfortable and appealing to many people,” said the engineer. The MD said that the Dreamliner would increase the number of tourists in the country, adding that by landing only KIA would be getting huge revenue. He said that although it was the first flight this Saturday, there were many passengers in the flight that takes more than 300 passengers. The airport now has a capacity of receiving 1,200,000 passengers per year, up from only 600,000 before the refurbishment. It can as well receive 14 flights at ago, up from nine. KADCO Business and Marketing Manager, Ms Christina Mwakatobe said Qatar Airways has been using the airport since 2012, but it was the first time to bring in the Dreamliner with modern technology and high capacity. She said it would raise the status of KIA that is growing quickly and connectivity would be improved. She unveiled that fly Dubai would be re-introducing its routes to the airport, landing every night and dawn. The KIA has been significantly changed since its renovation as it has more capacity for planes; passenger and cargo ones landing and taking off and is now set for a new high as radar installation process has commenced, with construction of its tower and housing equipment on completion stage.