TAIFA Stars will throw last but one dice, as they face Kenya’s Harambee Stars in their penultimate group C match at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals today. Stars Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike is looking forward with bated breath for the East African derby to be staged at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo from 23:00 (EAT). Both sides will be looking to recover from their false start into the campaign. Amunike led Taifa Stars suffered a 2-0 defeat in a shaky and nervy display against power house and top ranked Africa side, Senegal at the same venue last Sunday, before Kenya lost by the same margin at the hands of another continental power house Algeria. Amunike is determined to see the team recover in their today’s clash against Harambee Stars, but he is aware that it will need courage and improvement in the tactical display. And, going into the match today, Amunike said the objective is clear, to build confidence and motivate players to be capable of managing the game. “We lost 2-0 to the Senegalese in our first game. We cannot deny the fact that the Senegalese team has a lot of experience, they have a lot of good players who are playing at the top level. The Nigerian legend said the game against Kenya will be tough because the teams clearly know each other. “It is a very good opportunity for us to play against Kenya. The important thing is to see how we can psyche our players, motivate them from morale to mental aspect of the game. We observed that in the game against Senegal there was a lot of nervousness on our players,” he said. “The quality of players is never in doubt… we have a lot of good players but in modern football, when quality fails you, what comes next is character. We have to see how we build this character in our players… character to compete and believe in themselves and hopefully we will be in a position to win if we do the right things,” said Amunike. He said Stars will manage the game if players can be in the right frame of mind and their decisions making is always right. “We have seen the two teams; the Kenyans have experience in the midfield, no doubt about that. They have experience in Tottenmham’s Wanyama (Victor). And, their players from the wing side are quick; they like to break from the wings. So we will look on ways containing them and be able to play and take our chances.” On his side Kenyan Coach Sebastien Migne is confident that Harambee Stars can register their first win at the ongoing AFCON against Tanzania. “Everything is possible. We have played Tanzania before. We will try and defeat them and then play the ‘final’ against Senegal,” Migne said. “Now, we need to learn and do that quickly because in four days we have another game. If we play very well in both halves we can claim our first win and then play a ‘final’ against Senegal. “What we need to change going forward is our fighting spirit. We were afraid against Algeria. We refused to play. But, we will work on this during the next few days. “We are a team that can learn quickly. I don’t know if it’s an advantage for us to play our neighbours Tanzania, but I will give you an answer after the game.” It will be the battle of Mbwana Samatta and Victor Wanyama -- the two captains with pedigree in European football, with the Kenyan flourishing in Tottenham midfield, while Samatta is a key striker for KRC Genk of Belgium. Taifa Stars also received a major boost with the return to fitness of key and versatile defender, Erasto Nyoni, who missed the opening game after picking a knock during a warm up clash against Zimbabwe. Ahead of the match, the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda arrived in Cairo on Tuesday and delivered President John Magufuli’s motivation message to Taifa Stars. On Tuesday, President Magufuli has consoled Tanzanians after their team’s AFCON finals opener loss to Senegal, saying the Taifa Stars worked to minimize the loss as they faced the African giants. Stars captain Samatta is targeting victory against Kenya and has called for solid preparation to overcome their East African neighbours. “On that game, I think we really need to prepare ourselves for it because I don’t think Kenya are much better than us,” he said. “They are not like Senegal or Algeria so maybe it can be the game we can do something. They are tough opponent also, it is not going to be an easy game. “But we have to prepare well to earn points against them. And then see what we can do in our last game.”