THE government has warned medical practitioners in the country against a growing tendency of exploiting patients seeking medical treatment at their health facilities. The warning follows public concern over a growing trend by some health practitioners, who provided false results to patients, who went for urinary tract infection (UTI) diagnosis so that they could earn money. It was Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu, who issued the warning mid-this week, directing all medical practitioners to abide by the professional code of ethics in the discharge of their duties and stop making healthcare a money-making business by exploiting patients. There has been concern from members of the public that most patients, who go to various health facilities for medical treatment, especially diagnosis related to fever were always told to have contracted a urinary tract infection (UTI). According to experts, UTI is an infection in any part of the urinary system — kidneys, ureters, the bladder and the urethra. One of the businesspersons at Mchikichini Market, Mr Syriacus Joel, asked for clarification from government on the matter, when Ms Mwalimu toured the market this week, following the outbreak of cholera and dengue fever in Dar es Salaam and other regions. Mr Joel informed the minister that every person, who went to hospital nowadays was told to have UTI, a situation that had raised doubts over the services offered to the public. Responding, Ms Mwalimu said a patient needed to wait for at least 48 hours to get UTI results because experts had to do urine culture, whose results could not be given in 1-2 hours. She said some health facilities had turned the service into a business and had forgotten about the professional code of ethics. “I am warning medical practitioners to abide by their professional code of ethics, when rendering health services to patients because some of them have turned them into a business,” Ms Mwalimu said. She explained that the government had issued the Standard Treatment Guidelines, which every medical practitioner was obliged to comply with. “These guidelines show how the diagnosis should be conducted, the time taken for the results to be released and treatment. If all health experts observe these guidelines there will be no complaints,” she insisted. She further detailed that UTI had connection with lack of clean and safe water, toilet hygiene and use of soap containing chemicals, which could cause inflammation of the urethra. Dar es Salaam Regional Medical Officer, Dr Yudas Ndungile, said UTI had also to do with personal hygiene. According to health experts, UTI is a common infection that affects males and females of all ages, though is more common in women. They are caused by micro-organisms, usually bacteria that get into a urinary tract. UTIs can affect all parts of the urinary tract from the bladder to the kidneys. Kidney infections (pyelonephritis) are quite serious and can cause serious complications. UTI symptoms include pain in the lower back or side, pain, stinging or burning when you urinate feeling like you need to urinate more often than normal, but only passing a few drops, cloudy urine, urine that smells unusually and blood in your urine.