AS Africa yesterday commemorated African Child Day commemorations’ climax, the government has launched the Guideline for Children Councils that among other goals, aims at enabling children know laws, rules and regulations, which protect their rights. The launched document will also serve in reducing child violence to 50 percent, by 2020/2021 as per the government’s target. That was said at the weekend in Geita Region by the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Permanent Secretary, Dr John Jingu (pictured). Launching a document prepared by the government in collaboration with other stakeholders, including Save the Children Organization, which offers both expertise and financial support yesterday, it was pointed out that the national commemoration would take place today. The PS stressed that children had the right to be protected against any kind of abuse, adding that they also had a right to be educated, developed and included in decision making and be heard. Dr Jingu further said that apart from signing various international and regional contracts, the Constitution of Tanzania also clearly stipulates the importance of children’s rights protection, adding that the government had been taking various steps to implement the Constitution’s requirements. “For instance, the government has already introduced gender desks in over 420 police stations countrywide with well educated professionals. There are children protection teams in over 68 municipal and town councils. “We have also introduced One Stop centres in hospitals, to promote services to children who experience violence and abuses...those are just few areas of implementations...there so many others,” said the PS However, he advised the victims (children) to use Child Helpline Services and directed that whoever would experience physical and other types of violence should dial 116 and 114 for those who would experience sexual abuse. “This launched document will also give power and direction to all operators in the children’s councils, including children themselves to intensity the war against violence. It will enable children to have reliable information and know how to deal with their basic issues through the councils and the available systems,” stressed the PS.