SIMBA have pulled out of this year’s CECAFA Kagame Cup tournament which is scheduled to be staged in Rwanda next month, citing technical reasons. According to a statement released yesterday, the club has decided to withdraw from the annual regional club showpiece because at the period of the tournament, Simba will be outside the country for pre-season tour. Club Chairman, Swedi Nkwabi and Chief Executive Officer, Crescentius Magori also confirmed the club’s decision. Nkwabi said the club decided to pull out of the tournament due to the fact that it interferes with the team’s plan to set camp in either the Unites States or Portugal, to prepare for CAF Champions League and Mainland Premier League season. He said following the amendments made on the dates for CAF interclub competitions, which is now set to kick off in August, it will be tricky for Simba to compete in Kagame Cup. Nkwabi said that they have already informed the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), about that decision to pull out of the regional tournament. Simba is most successful club in the tournament as they have won the title six times. Simba, who are the Mainland champions and Azam FC, the tournament defending champions were to represent the country in this year’s edition of Kagame Cup to be hosted in Kigali and Rubavu respectively from July 7th to 21st 2019. CECAFA has extended invitation to Young Africans to take part in this year’s event. Meanwhile, Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems is likely to cut short his holiday at his native Belgium and return to his club ahead of the pre-season in readiness for the coming season. Aussems jetted off to Belgium last week after guiding his charges to retain their Mainland Premier League title and managing to reach the quarterfinals of CAF Champions League. The Belgian is also weighing assembling a formidable squad for CAF Champions League, top flight and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). According to the Confederation of African Football (CAF) calendar, Champions League campaign for the next season will kick off early August this year from the preliminary round stage. Aussems, whose contract with Simba had been extended, said the extension means the club has faith in his performance and that it is his duty to ensure that the goals set by the club are achieved. In another development, Coach Patrick Aussems has said that the increase of Mainland teams in CAF inter-club competitions from two to four will enhance competition among Mainland Premier League. “With four slots in Champions League and Confederation Cup, it is going to be a cutthroat competition and it is my duty to see my club’s status remain at the top,” he said. He said that the next season Champions League will be of much pressure for Simba, compared to the previous edition.