MEMBERS of Parliament have unanimously endorsed the 33.1tril/- budget for recurrent and development expenditure in the 2019/2020 Fiscal Year, as the government moved to refute claims by a section of MPs that business in the country was shrinking due to poor business and investment climate. Also, the government yesterday reiterated its commitment to abolish Value Added Tax (VAT) exemption on sanitary pads in the next fiscal year. Responding to queries raised by MPs during a week-long debate of the 2019/2020 budget, the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, said the government was fully committed to also reduce Corporate Income Tax to industries producing sanitary pads from 30per cent to 25per cent for a period of two consecutive years. On the state of business in the country, Dr Mpango and his Deputy Dr Ashatu Kijaji said the business environment in the country was superb and that more investors were willing to start businesses in Tanzania. They were responding to contributions from 236 lawmakers who debated the 2019/2020 budget. Dr Kijaji said the state of business in the country was the best, lambasting a section of MPs who repeatedly said during contributions that business in the country was collapsing. “Some MPs have been providing unrealistic statistics on business in the country, but the current statistics in the ministry show that businesses which are being shut are 16,252 while new businesses that are established are pegged at 147,817. According to her, closing business was a normal practice worldwide and that some of the reasons for that were change of business, failure to compete with others, huge debts and accumulated taxes, among others. “There are many studies worldwide which show that over 50 per cent of small and medium businesses close down even before celebrating an anniversary of one year and this is not only in Tanzania but in the entire world,’’ she added. The deputy minister said it was because of businesses in the country that the government was able to pay salaries to public servants at the same time executing various development projects. According to her, the government was spending 580bn/- in wage bill every month, whereby it was able to pay workers on time—on the 22nd of every month and revenue collection had now increased from 700bn/- to over 1tril/-. The minister said 85per cent of money going to development project was from internal revenue sources, adding that the government would continue improving the business environment. During the evening session, 345 Lawmakers were present in the House during endorsement of the 33.1tri/- budget whereby all CCM MPs endorsed the budget while majority of opposition MPs moved a No vote. As per the constitution and House Standing orders, for the budget to sail through, there should be a quorum, which is that at least a half of MPs should be present during the open voting. In all, parliament has 393 lawmakers, meaning there should be at least 196 MPs during the voting.