SIM B A SC have announced to have doubled the budget for the coming league season, a pre-warning notice to the club’s rivals. Simba, whose 1.5bn squad looked unbeatable this season, from what the club’s sponsor Mohamed Dewji unveiled this week, will spend over 3bn/- in their campaign to conquer the next league season and the continental level missions in the 2019/20 season. Dewji’s budget was revealed yesterday at Hyatt Regent Hotel during the team’s best performers gala. Dewji’s 1.5bn budget managed Simba to build a formidable squad led by the brilliant trio of Meddie Kagere, John Bocco and Emmanuel Okwi, the three have netted 54 goals for the team out of 77 goals the team bagged in the just ended season. The prize-giving gala decorated well the trio whose contribution to the team’s success was immense. To everyone’s expectation, Meddie Kagere emerged the team’s best player and the top scorer as well. It was sad that the Uganda striker, Emmanuel Okwi won nothing on the day. Kagere, who joined Simba from the Kenyan giants Gor Mahia has ended the season with 23 goals, the biggest number in the 20- team league. He beat his striking partner J ohn Bocco and Zambian midfield maestro Cletous Chama. Erasto Nyoni was also decorated as the best defender beating Ivorian Serge Paschal Wawa and Shomari Kapombe. Aishi Manula was named the best goalkeeper after beating Deogratius Munishi ‘Dida’. The best midfielder was Ghanaian James Kotei who defeated J onas Mkude and Muzamil Yassin. The team’s skipper Bocco won the best striker award after beating Kagere and Okwi. Chama was named the scorer of the team’s best goal. He scored the winner when Simba eliminated Nkana of Zambia 3-1 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Youthful Rashid Juma won the Youngest Player award while Mwanahamisi Omary Shaluwa grabbed the best Women Player award. The team’s former sponsor, Azim Dewji claimed the award for Life Time Honour after enabling Simba to play in CAF Final in 1993. The 2018/19 was a banner season for Simba, who besides winning the league title also got an opportunity to play Laliga giants in their nine-goal thriller at the National stadium. J ohn Bocco who netted a brace and a goal apiece by Meddie Kagere and Cletous Chama almost floored the La Liga giants, but lack of composure in the final ten minutes were enough to let the Spaniards level the score and score the winner. Still the tour of Sevilla further opened doors for La Liga to promote the Mainland Premier League as noted the SportPesa Director of Administration and Compliance Tarimba Abbas. He said the tour of Sevilla FC in the country has opened up more opportunities in sports and tourism sectors. The Spanish LaLiga giants were in the country for a three-day productive tour which climaxed on Friday after running various clinics meant to accelerate the growth of football in Tanzania and the entire world. However, the whole nation was on standstill when the fivetime UEFA Europa League winners exchanged tackles with the country’s 20-time champions Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Despite the match ending in favour of the visitors who won 5-4, the level of football display shown by Simba was remarkable no wonder Sevilla coach and some players heaped praises on the home side immediately after the exciting game.