TANZANIA today enters world history books as the ban imposed on the production, supply and use of plastic bags comes to an end, thus becoming one of the 128 nations that have taken stern measures to curb environmental pollution,the third country in the East African Community (EAC) bloc after Kenya and Rwanda. With effect from today no plastic carrier bag will be allowed to be produced, imported and distributed in the country except those, which are allowed under the law, including those used for garbage collection, wrapping up and packaging of certain products such as food, medicine and agricultural materials. Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, Minister of State in the Vice -President’s Office (Union and Environment) January Makamba and the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) have all on various occasions reiterated the government’s intention into ensuring the implementation of the ban succeeds. A survey conducted by ‘Daily News’ yesterday at some markets in Dar es Salaam and Dodoma shows vendors have started selling alternative carrier bags at the price that ranges from 500/- to 1,000/-. Food vendors were seen using small carrier bags made of hard papers similar to those used before plastic bags came into use. Studies show that plastic bags are environmentally-unfriendly to ecosystems since they are not easy to recycle. As a result, they cause severe health hazards to humans, animals and the environment. It is possible to estimate the magnitude of the problem as Tanzania produces over 56,000 tonnes of plastic bags and uses over two billion pieces of them a year, according to Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Vice- President’s Office (Environment) Joseph Sokoine. Data obtained from NEMC shows that despite its economic and technological advancement, the US can recycle only 23 per cent of plastic bags, while Tanzania can recycle only one per cent. NEMC officials and other environmental and health experts say that plastic bags have had adverse consequences for humans, the environment, aquatic life, wildlife, domestic animals and human beings. Plastic bags are among the causative agents of human cancer due to consuming hot food stored in them. According to health experts and nutritionists, carrying or storing hot food such as chips in a plastic bag causes it to produce toxic emissions that contaminate food stored in it. Experts further say that the toxic emissions can be produced even when such carrier bags are exposed to the sun or in a refrigerator. NEMC officials, including its legal officer Manchare Heche, told reporters in Dar es Salaam mid-this week that in enforcing the ban, its officials would be deployed across the country where they would work with local government officials in implementing it. Members of the public are asked to take their plastic carrier bags to special garbage collection points to simplify waste management procedures. The idea to ban plastic bags started taking shape in 2013, but it was until 2016 when a bold statement to implement the decision was made. On April 9, this year, Prime Minister (PM) Kassim Majaliwa issued an official statement in the National Assembly to declare a total ban on all single-use plastic carrier bags effectively from today. According to the PM, the ban involves production, importation, sale and use of all single-use plastic carrier bags to help curb environmental pollution from nonbiodegradable waste. “We are taking these measures to protect the health of our people, the health of animals and the environment against the harm done by non-biodegradable waste,” the Prime Minister was quoted as saying. According to the Environmental Management (Prohibition of Plastic Carrier Bags) Regulations of 2019 all plastic carrier bags, regardless of their thickness, are prohibited from being imported, exported, manufactured, sold, stored, supplied and used in Mainland Tanzania. The law further requires that no person shall sell or offer for sale beverages or other commodities wrapped in plastics unless the nature of such commodities require wrappings by plastics. However, no authority will be able to acquire, register or issue a licence or permit to any person intending to import, export, manufacture or sell plastic carrier bags that have been prohibited by Regulations. Violators of the law will be liable to a fine of not less than 20m/-, but not exceeding 1bn/-. In Africa, there are about 13 countries that have either banned or introduced a levy on plastic bags to control and eventually stop their use