HARDLY hours before the official kickoff of 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals, national, Taifa Stars squad suffered a major blow after key defender, Aggrey Morris failed to recover and has to be dropped. The central defender picked a knock during Stars’ 1-0 loss in their first warm up clash against hosts Egypt Pharaohs at Borg El-Arab Stadium in Alexandria last Thursday and has since failed to recover. Stars Head Coach, Emmanuel Amunike had no option but to drop the Azam FC sturdy defender. He has been replaced by Azam team mate, David Mwantika, who was initially picked in the 39-man provisional squad before being dropped from the final 23-man squad. Morris’ absence will be a big blow to Stars as his combination at the heart of defence with Kelvin Yondani and Erasto Nyoni proved to be a key defender for Stars’ qualification into the finals of the continental major show piece after missing the platform for the past 39 years. Morris is the second Stars player to be ruled out of the AFCON finals due to injuries after right wing back Shomari Kapombe suffered an injury setback. Another right wing back Ramadhan Kessy will also miss Stars opening match on Sunday against mighty Senegal because he is serving card ban after picking two yellow cards in qualification stages. Stars base shifted from Alexandria to Cairo in time for the tournament kickoff tomorrow until July 19th this year. Taifa Stars Assistant Coach Hemedi Morocco said the warm up matches against Egypt and Zimbabwe have helped the technical bench in sorting outing several areas of weakness. “The two warm up matches have enabled us to rectify several mistakes and improve where we saw weaknesses,” said Morocco. “He said all teams that have qualified for AFCON finals are good and well drilled, but the two warm up matches have made us know our position and how to play against our opponents,” added Morocco. Tanzania is pooled in group C alongside some continental football heavy weights Senegal and Algeria and East African neighbour Kenya. They will kick off their campaign on Sunday against Senegal’s ‘Lions of Teranga’ at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo. Senegal are ranked top in the continental and are placed 22nd in the FIFA World rankings, while Algeria are placed 11th in CAF and 68th globally. Kenya are placed 105th and Tanzania are settled 131st in the world rankings released last week by the world football governing body. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe’s Warriors which played the final warm up game with Taifa Stars last Sunday and earned a 1-1 draw will also miss midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu, who has been ruled out of the AFCON finals after suffering a muscle strain. The 25-year-old former Singida United and Azam FC player, who has just sealed a move to Guinea's side Horoya, was expected to provide options in the midfield for the Warriors but that will not be the case and the Warriors will now have to replace him. Kutinyu sustained injury in one of Zimbabwe’s warm –up games but not that against Taifa Stars. Zimbabwe will face hosts Egypt tomorrow night in the AFCON opening match. Zimbabwe is in Group A alongside Uganda Cranes and DR Congo.