Officer (RMO), Dr Marco Mbata, has strongly refuted reports that started circulating on Thursday on social media that the deadly Ebola disease had spread to Tanzania through Kyerwa District’s border in Kagera, saying members of the public should dismiss such reports. He said the government had formed a taskforce comprising key stakeholders as preventive measures against the deadly Ebola virus, insisting that Kagera was safe from the viral disease so far. Dr Mbata told ‘Daily News’ during a telephone interview that rumours circulating on various media outlets that a patient with Ebola signs had been detected in Kyerwa District were unfounded. “A team of experts has been dispatched to all entry points to monitor movements and also there is 24-hour surveillance all entry points, which include Rusumo and Kabanga in Ngara District, Kaisho and Murongo in Karagwe District and Kyaka and Mutukula in Misenyi District. “People should take precautions by boiling drinking water and washing their hands after using toilets. Leaders in Missenyi, Karagwe, Muleba, Biharamulo, Kyerwa, Ngara and Bukoba districts have started an awareness campaign by distributing posters and brochures with information on Ebola symptoms through primary health care (PHC) committees,” he said. Kagera Region shares borders with four neighbouring countries, including Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya. The region is on high Ebola alert following an outbreak of the Ebola disease in the neighbouring Uganda and Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The number of Ugandans exposed to the Ebola virus increased significantly from eight to at least 27. The Ebola virus has been ravaging eastern Congo for the past years and was reported to have spread to Uganda last week. Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said the government had supplied thermal scanners to the country’s main gateways, including border posts, airports and ports. Thermal scanners are devices meant to detect high body temperature as a clue for Ebola disease. The government has enhanced its integrated disease surveillance and response system in the country’s border posts that are frequently used by DRC nationals to cross into the country. The border posts where the government has enhanced the system include Rusumo, Kabanga and Mutukula in Kagera Region and Kigoma Port in Lake Tanganyika. The government has also provided guidelines on the transportation of test samples across the country, supply of medical kits and drugs to all regions to prevent and treat people in case of the disease outbreak. Tanzania has, until now, not documented any case of Ebola, but the authorities have insisted that the country is not immune from the viral disease due to a possibility of cross-border transmission from the affected countries. Meanwhile, Karagwe District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Christopher Mwangongela, said Chonyonyo Dispensary had been selected as a receiving centre in case there was any sign of Ebola. “At least 92 medical staff have been trained on Ebola management skills, while Chonyonyo Dispensary has been equipped with requisite preparedness equipment to control the disease,” he said. The World Health Organisation (WHO) describes Ebola as a viral haemorrhagic fever and one of the most virulent diseases known to humankind. It says the disease was identified in 1976 in the Western Equatorial Province of Sudan and a nearby region of Zaire (now Democratic Republic of the Congo). It takes its name from a river in the DRC. There is no known cure or licensed treatment for Ebola, which killed over 1, 013 people in the outbreak in West Africa in 2014.