TAIFA Stars Head Coach, Emmanuel Amunike is determined to see the team recover in their tomorrow’s group C match against Kenya’s Harambee Stars, but he is aware that it will need courage and improvement in the tactical display. Taifa Stars will face Harambee Stars at 30 June Stadium in Cairo tomorrow, in their second match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals, with both sides looking to recover from their false start into the campaign. Amunike led Taifa Stars suffered a 2-0 defeat in a shaky and nervy display against power house and top ranked Africa side, Senegal at the same venue last Sunday, before Kenya lost by the same margin at the hands of another continental power house Algeria. And, going into the match tomorrow, Amunike said the objective is clear, to build confidence and motivate players to be capable of managing the game. “We lost 2-0 to the Senegalese in our first game. We cannot deny the fact that the Senegalese team has a lot of experience, they have a lot of good players who are playing at the top level. Amunike believes that in every journey there is always a process of adaptation and process of building confidence. “Whether we like or not and whether we are realistic to ourselves the reality remains the same, in 39 years a lot of things have happened, a lot of players have played and retired and a lot of good generations are still coming up. We are privileged to be in this AFCON and this is a stepping stone for Tanzania and beginning of the new chapter." He said the new chapter must be approached in honest and realistic opinion, insisting that Tanzanians should stop talking too much and instead, they need to be more involving, serious and consolidate what the country has achieved in football so far. “The story is what we can do in the future, what will be the shape of Tanzania football in the future. How are we preparing our players in psychological aspect of the game. We have seen it clearly that teams that are more experienced and involved in more international games have edge above others. Amunike said time has come for Tanzania to be more engaged in order to build players confidence. “Since I came into this team, I cannot recall playing any friendly game to be able to boost players’ confidence. We only played qualification games.” The Nigerian legend said Thursday (tomorrow) game against Kenya will be tough because the teams clearly know each other. “It is a very good opportunity for us to play against Kenya. The important thing is to see how we can psyche our players, motivate them from morale to mental aspect of the game. We observed that in the game against Senegal there was a lot of nervousness on our players,” he said. “The quality of players is never in doubt… we have a lot of good players but in modern football, when quality fails you, what comes next is character. We have to see how we build this character in our players…character to compete and believe in themselves and hopefully we will be in a position to win if we do the right things,” said Amunike. “We still have options, so our objective is to be calm; redirect out thoughts to see how we can motivate ourselves from technical to the tactical and also to the individual aspect of the game. “Sometimes we talk about tactical aspect of the game, which begins with individuals… if players can be in the right frame of mind, if the players’ decisions making is always right, I can confidently say we will be able to manage the game. “We have seen the two teams; the Kenyans have experience have experience in Tottenmham’s Wanyama (Victor). On his side Kenyan Coach Sebastien Migne is confident that Harambee Stars can register their first win at the ongoing AFCON against Tanzania. “Everything is possible. We have played Tanzania before. We will try and defeat them and then play the 'final' against Senegal,” Migne said.