THE High Court’s Commercial Division has dismissed the suit lodged by Delta Africa Limited, demanding about 1bn/- as commission from Vodacom Tanzania Public Limited for breach of a master contract for managed sale services in the Vodacom flagship shops. Judge Butamo Philip ruled in favour of Vodacom Company, the defendant, after holding, “It is my finding that the defendant did not commit any breach of the contract,” which was later terminated by the mobile service provider company. She noted that the contract explicitly stated that the termination was done for the defendant’s convenience and three months’ notice was given to Delta Africa Limited, the plaintiff, to be reckoned from March 22, 2017. Referring further to the contract, the judge said that upon termination of the contract for whatever reason any payment which was going to the vendor shall with immediate effect be stopped and vendor shall have no claim against Vodacom for loss of earning or goodwill however. “(This) clause (in the contract) shuts the doors for any claim of loss after the termination of the contract. The words and phrases used in the clause are clear and unambiguous,” she ruled when determining one of the issues framed by the parties during hearing of the commercial dispute. On May 11, 2015, the parties entered into an agreement, known as “the master agreement for managed sales services in the Vodacom flagship shops”, whereby the defendant outsourced sale services of its flagship shops located at Mlimani City Mall and Samora Avenue in Dar es Salaam. The defendant also outsourced the sale services to the plaintiff at Arusha, Mbeya and Mwanza. The contract was for a period of three years, the same to be considered from the date of its signing. The implementation of the contract was effected as per the terms stipulated in the contract. On March 20, 2017, the defendant served the plaintiff a three months notice of termination of the contract. Upon being served with the notice, the plaintiff started initiatives to refer the matter to arbitration since clause 15 of the contract provided for reference of disputes between parties to arbitration. The efforts to have the dispute resolved by arbitration were not successful. It is the plaintiff’s case that the defendant did breach the contract as the same was supposed to expire on May 11, 2018. It is alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff had invested a colossal sum of money in the business by constructing business premises suitable for the business, paid for residence permits for four expert staff till December 2018, bought two motor vehicles and two motor cycles among others. The plaintiff alleged further that in execution of the contract used to buy from the defendant Voda Fasta (Electronic Airtime Vouchers), scratching vouchers, modems, routers and Voda mobile devices, the defendant defaulted to issue the purchase tax invoices in respect of all of the said commodities. As a result, the plaintiff was unable to get the input of Value Added Tax (VAT) every month, consequently was subjected to pay 59,696,744/- to Tanzania Revenue Authority as output VAT of which he claimed to be refunded by the defendant. It is the plaintiff’s contention that by issuing the notice of termination, the defendant breached the contract which he was diligently and excellently executing it, to the extent of being awarded a certificate of excellence by the defendant. On the other side, in its defence, the defendant alleged that the notice was issued pursuant to article 14.2 of the contract and termination of the contract was proper. The defendant alleged further that the notice was issued on March 22, 2017 and the same was supposed to expire on June 22, 2017. Upon receipt of the notice, the plaintiff started to take steps to handover the flagship shops to the defendant, including issuing notice to its employees and also sought advice from the defendant on how to complete the remaining stock in the shops. Furthermore, it was stated in the written statement of defence that the defendant had to engage a third party to manage and operate the shops in accordance with the new business model, which the plaintiff had no capacity to implement.