THE WORLD Vision Tanzania (WVT) plans to donate 164 wheelchairs to children who may fail to attend Schools in the country as a result of their physical disabilities to walk. That was said here yesterday by WVT Disaster Department Manager, Mr Victor Katambala, adding that the organisation is committed to rescue all pupils to get education as their basic right with easy access. He said that the children to be helped would be the ones with different physical disabilities, particularly the ones crawling and fail to cross rivers or walk on thorny paths on their ways to schools. In advance here at their WVT Magugu Office, Mr Katambala handed over 25 wheelchairs after presiding over an exercise to assess the children’s special needs in respect to their conditions. “The wheelchairs, made with tables in front would assist the pupils in their class studies to progress in their academics and the project is for the whole country,” he pointed out. The Disaster Department Manager further said : “We plan to deliver 164 wheelchairs to Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Manyara.” Before donating the chairs we organize seminars to Health Officials in specific rural areas for them to ensure that they support the project to be sustainable. We were offered the chairs by World Vision Australia and we deliver them in collaboration with the Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania (CCBRT) Moshi. We have already conducted seminars to health care givers in 80 villages in Same, Kilimanjaro, Arusha and Babati and we will organize the same in Karatu. For the time being we have been working with the communities, we have come to learn that there are a lot of children with disabilities, who fail to acquire education as well as other necessary needs, just because of their physical disabilities. He noted that many children with disabilities fail to enjoy life, simply because they can not walk, go to school or even play with their fellow mates, adding that the situation is being worsened by some parents locking them back home to get home care. He said as a result of the sad picture, WVT is working towards ending the situation. On his side, the WVT Magugu Coordinator, Mr Majidi Mfinanga pointed out that they have been collaborating well with health care givers in several villages to identify the disabled children. “Today we have delivered 25 wheelchairs to disabled children. People have been hiding the children in their homes and this is not acceptable. We ask them to realize that these children have equal rights with others and should get basic rights such as education. We will support them,” said Mr Mfinanga. World Vision engages with various donors, sponsors and stakeholders to improve the well-being of children and communities.