PRIME Minister (PM) Kassim Majaliwa has maintained the government’s commitment to clearing over 20bn/- owed to cashew nut farmers in the country by the end of this financial year. Speaking at a CCM National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Lindi Region yesterday, Mr Majaliwa said the names of farmers, who had been verified and were yet to be paid, would be presented to the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) for payment. “All money owed to farmers will be paid in this financial year as they are entitled to it and the government does not intend to deny any person his or her right,” noted Mr Majaliwa. He said improvements, related to service delivery such as roads, were key to social development and so it was the duty of leaders to ensure cititizens accessed social services without discrimination. Thus, he appealed to those entrusted with leadership roles to fulfil their obligations accordingly because their duty was to serve all people equally. Presenting the implementation of CCM manifesto, Lindi Regional Commissioner (RC) Godfrey Nzambi said the payment exercise for verified cashew nuts was still going on. Mr Zambi explained that as of May 31, this year, 51,990,999.97kg worth 171,570,299,912/- (equivalent to 87.6 per cent) had been paid to those entitled to it. He also said the remaining 23,404,086,508/- had not been paid to cashew nut farmers in Lindi Region, saying verification for the cashew nuts was conducted at a Mtwara centre. In November last year the government announced its decision to buy all cashews as buyers were reluctant to heed their agreement with President John Magufuli on the minimum 3,000/- price of the cash crop from farmers as opposed to Cashewnut Board of Tanzania’s 1,500/- cap price. In light of this, President Magufuli directed Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) to oversee the buying process by guarding all warehouses, transporting and processing the produce. He expressed his disappointment to cashew dealers, who he accused of dragging their feet in buying the crop at a better price even after meeting them at the State House. “I have noticed that this is a coordinated game to sabotage farmers…we (Tanzania) are promoting the private sector, but it’s now frustrating us,” he explained.