THE Blue Print for ‘Regulatory Reforms to improve the Business Environment for Tanzania’ is ready for implementation. The Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Mr William Ole Nasha revealed the new development in Parliament yesterday. He was responding, on behalf of the Deputy Minister for Trade Industry, to a question by Rukia Kassim Ahmed (Special Seats-CUF). According to Mr Nasha, the document has already been endorsed by the cabinet ready for implementation. “The plan will help to remove interferences of existing laws and reduce excessive bureaucracy in delivering services to the business community. The government has already implemented some of the nagging issues that are administrative and do not need legal changes. For instance, he said in agriculture and livestock sectors, a total of 114 and 5 OSHA levies have been scrapped off. On Wednesday, while debating national budget estimates, former Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr Charles Mwijage said that the proposed Blue Print was panacea for all challenges facing trade, industry and investments in the country. He however insisted that implementation of the document must be a “Salvation” from above (the President himself) as it was done by President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and Prime Minister Modi of India. Mr Mwijage was optimistic that through the implementation of the ‘bitter’ pill (The Blue Print), which comprises full involvement of the private sector, TRA can even surpass the target of collecting over 1.7tri/ per month. Mr Nasha noted that the government had made significant reforms in improving business environment, something that is being reflected by Tanzania’s leading record in attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDIs), in East Africa region since 2012. “According to the World Investment Report issued by the United Nations Trade and Investment Development Agency (UNCTAD) in 2018, Tanzania is leading in East Africa for attracting FDIs amounting to 1,180m USD, followed by Uganda 700m US Dollars” he added. Ms Ahmed asked the government on what measures are being taken to improve the business environment since most business people are going through a hard time. Chipping in to answer the question, the Minister for Investment (Prime Minister’s Office) Ms Angellah Kariuki was optimistic that Tanzania’s ranking in investment and trade will be higher soon. She added that a team from World Bank will be visiting the country soon to make assessment on trade and investment aspects.