DEPUTY Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Juliana Shonza has reminded sports associations and clubs to strictly observe medical checkup to all athletes in the country. The deputy minister said in the National Assembly yesterday that all sports associations and clubs have the legal obligation to ensure provision for medical checkup and treatment for athletes is adhered to. She said the country’s sports policy of 1995 (10.1) clearly stipulates that it is a must for athlete to undergo medical checkup and his/ her medical records well documented. “It also requires that at all the time an athlete is in camp, he/she is required to be frequently attended to by qualified expert in sports medicine,” she said. She said the objective is always to protect the welfare of athletes and ensure they are not exposed to risk in any aspect of sports delivery. She insisted that this is best achieved through continually updating knowledge and skills for providing a safe and healthy environment in conducting sports in the country. She said facilities, sporting equipment and protective equipment should meet the standard requirements for safety of the particular sport. The deputy minister also said that any treatment for athletes should take into consideration training on effects of drugs enhancing performance in sports. She said it was unacceptable for athletes in the country to take drugs in order to boost performance. She said the ministry was always ready to support initiatives to train athletes against performance enhancing drugs. Ms Shonza was responding to a basic question by Nungwi MP, Haji Khamis (CUF), who had wished to know if the government through sports associations has any procedure of conducting medical checkup on athletes. It is suggested that social drugs such as alcohol, tobacco and cannabis are commonly available in the sport environment in Tanzania. However, their use should be banned at any activity connected with sport, and young people should be encouraged to carry this through to their personal life.