THE management of Young Africans has unveiled the plan to construct state-of-the-art stadium in Kigamboni which will contain all necessary facilities. The government lately gave Yanga a plot of land to be used for construction of its own stadium at Kisarawe II in Kigamboni and the club has since been given all required official documents of the area. Speaking here recently, the club’s chairman Mshindo Msolla said the stadium construction will be taking place slowly as they are not in a rush to build it while reiterating that more focus now is on the upgrade of infrastructure activities at Kaunda ground. "We plan to erect a massive state of the art stadium in Kigamboni which will be recognised all over the world. We want teams from Europe and other parts of the universe to use the arena during their preseason tours, a move that will help the club to generate income," Msolla said. The Chairman added that at the moment, they want to finish construction of the Kaunda stadium where the club's headquarters is situated, saying it will also help a lot to enable the team run appropriately. "Our priority now is to continue renovating Kaunda stadium because it is a very important economically as historic site of the club. Once we finish and put a fence, the team will be training there plus playing some games hence getting something to be used for running the team," he said. Msolla insisted that the management is eager to see infrastructure transformation at the club saying nobody can speak about enhancement of football in an area where infrastructure is poor. He also said plans to refurbish the headquarters building are underway such that any time soon, they will commence facelift. In his words after handing over the land to the club, Dar es Salaam Region Commissioner Paul Makonda urged Yanga management to do something on the plot and not to just let it lie idle. “I want to see work going on here. My contribution to Yanga is now 700m/- and I want you to use this land productively so that next time when you will request for land extension, we should not hesitate to provide that to you,” Makonda said. However, unconfirmed report indicates that GSM Group President Ghalib Mohamed has agreed to modernise the club’s headquarters building situated at the Jangwani Street in Dar es Salaam.