TIB Development Bank (TIB) has launched a customer service charter aiming at improving service delivery among its stakeholders, understanding their needs as well as building good customer relations. Launching the charter in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, the Chairperson of the Board of Directors, Dr Maria Mashingo said the charter would give customers opportunity to understand the bank and the extent of its services and receive feedback. “The bank has set itself to provide customers with a standard that will meet its customers’ requirements and in case it fails to do so it will be ready to receive feedback from stakeholders for the purpose of adjusting and improving its services,” she said. She added that the Bank was committed to make sure that the agreement was part of implementing the fifth phase government’s objective of making sure that public institutions are doing better in serving its stakeholders. “Until 30 March 2019 the bank had assets amounting to 614bn/- and we have planned to manage these assets to provide benefits to Tanzania putting into consideration laws, policies, regulations, instructions and procedures,” she said. She called on the customers to support the bank in the implementation of the charter so that the bank can maintain its position as a role model in supporting and stimulate private sector investments. On his part, the Bank’s Managing Director, Mr Charles Singili (pictured) said TIB Development Bank is a key pillar in integrating the government and the private sector. “TIB Development Bank is different from other banks because it focuses on developing customers and Tanzanians in general. The bank is also an important link between the government and the private sector and thus contributes significantly to investment,’’ said Mr Singili. He called on young people to find out institutions that can support them achieve their needs so that they can raise their income and the nation as a whole. “TIB focuses on helping young people understand the principles of good governance, how they can produce a variety of products that can help them achieve their personal objectives and help the government achieve industrial economy,” he explained. Earlier, Mr Joseph Kidaha, who is a client of the bank , said that the contract has a huge impact on the clients, adding that, if properly managed it will bring great benefits to its customers and Tanzanians in general. “It is a good thing to see that good relations are developed between the bank and its customers, this will stimulate the interest of people to use services of the Bank and many of us will be able to meet our expectations,” he said. Mr Kidaha urged stakeholders to go and borrow leaf from the TIB Development bank and make timely repayment to make more Tanzanians continue to benefit from development bank loans.