ENFORCEMENT of the Oil and Gas Revenues Management Act of 2015 has enabled the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) to deposit 102bn/- in the Oil and Gas Revenue Fund during the past three years, it has been revealed. This year alone, the National Oil Company deposited 66bn/- in the fund which is managed by the Bank of Tanzania (BoT). The account was established in 2015 to manage revenues derived from the sale of gas and oil. The Acting Managing Director of TPDC, Engineer Kapuulya Musomba, explained last weekend that enforcement of the legislation has enabled the corporation to collect the amount for the fund. The major objective of thefund is to ensure that revenues derived from oil and gas industry are optimally collected and used in a manner that does not endanger the fiscal and macroeconomic stability. It is also intended to ensure that the revenues are invested to bring about desired socio-economic development. Available statistics indicate that Tanzania has natural gas reserves amounting to 57.54 trillion cubic feet (tcf) onshore and offshore the Indian Ocean. The legislation defines revenues to be deposited in the fund as royalties paid by a licensed producer, its subsidiaries or a company under a Production Sharing Agreement (PSA) with TPDC. The list also includes government profits share, taxes payable by licensed upstream, midstream and downstream operators, additional oil and gas entitlements as well as dividends from the National Oil Company and any other revenue determined by the minister responsible for energy. Eng Musomba expressed optimism that some of the funds deposited in the fund will enable TPDC to undertake financing of investments in exploration and production of oil and gas in the country. “There are still many areas in the country where TPDC and other international oil companies are yet to undertake exploration; these funds are crucialfor development of the sector,” he explained. The enactment of the law and eventual establishment ofthe fund was aimed at cushioning Tanzania against what is described as ‘the Dutch-Disease.’ In economics, the Dutch disease is the apparent relationship between the increase in exploitation of natural resources and a decline in manufacturing, agriculture and other sectors of the economy. Following massive discoveries of natural gas in The Netherlands in the 1950s, a lot of focus was put on the sub-sector at the expense of other sectors of the economy. The term Dutch Disease was coined in 1977 by The Economist to describe the decline of the manufacturing sector in The Netherlands after the discovery of large natural gas fields in 1959. In a related development, Eng Musomba noted that after three years of incurring losses, the corporation has recorded profits amounting to 9bn/- during the 2018/2019’s fiscal year. “We are highly positive that TPDC will start paying dividends to the government since we are running profitably,” he stated. TPDC recorded a loss amounting to 367bn/- during fiscal year ending 2015. The amount decreased to 116bn/- in June 2016 and 52bn/- in June 2017