IN life there are so many things like diseases and animals which know no political boundaries enacted by man. But collaboration and consultations are still required constantly to build policy work to tame them as has been in the past. In addressing problems associated with them to man and eventually affect peoples’ health and security, little has been done on bilateral issues such as border health planning and management unlike on cross border crimes which have raised much attention. In this light, recently the East African Community (EAC), Secretariat successfully concluded a four-day cross-border Field Simulation Exercise (FSX), meeting, conducted on the Kenya-Tanzania border at Namanga One Stop Border Post (OSBP), with critical results and lessons for pandemic preparedness and response. With over 250 participants from both countries, besides those from Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda taking part it was possible to lay strategies to work as a team with a revelation that a neighbour’s problem in Africa culture is another’s unlike the nuclear families in some parts of the world. With that spirit and according to a statement released by the EAC Secretariat, the exercise created an opportunity in which participants were able to identify strengths and weaknesses to facilitate practical corrective actions at all levels. As part of the scenario, early warning, infections and deaths in animals and human beings should constantly prompt reporting whether in grassroots levels to their respective national and regional preparedness and response mechanisms be put in place if the bloc (read each country’s citizens), wants to fight the common enemies. The involvement of human health, animal health and other sectors reinforce the importance of the One Health approach and appropriate risk and crisis communications, as well as cross-border collaboration, because these enemies know no boundary and a country being ‘mean’ (closing a specific border) would still be caught off guard ‘spillover effects’ from the neighbor . Through the imaginary scenarios under real conditions and public involvement, regional and national-level experts should be able to test processes in place, and identify opportunities for improvement of the existing plans with realization that diseases also keep on evolving. In the same breath, community members in the bloc countries should be able to be given first-hand education and involvement in emergency preparedness and response. If such consultations would be taken for granted, one should recall how a 5-year-old child who traveled from the DRC to Uganda on June 9 died of Ebola according to the country’s health minister. This is because both countries share borders and it is possible to find a Ugandan having relatives in the other country or vice versa, implying frequent meetings, which do not necessarily require immigration alert.