YOUNG Africans have shown their determination to make major transformation as the club is set to introduce the post of Technical Director. The club has also announced the post of General Secretary. This will enable Yanga to follow the modern trend of adding a buffer between coach and players’ managerial dealings. Their traditional rivals Simba are also said to be in the process to appoint the Technical Director. According to an advert released by the club and posted on print media on Tuesday, Yanga leadership expressed its intention to fill some management and administrative positions so to align with the TFF regulations and to support the club administrative structure. Apart from General Secretary and Technical Director posts, the club also announced six other vacancies, which include the Competitions Director, Sales, Marketing Team Branding and Event Management Director, Finance and Administration Director and Legal and Membership Director. According to the advert the appointed technical director will be responsible for football development in the club and will report to the general secretary. Among other responsibilities, the technical director will be in charge of preparing football development plans and programmes and overseeing their implementation, establish and maintain the club philosophy in technical terms as well as promoting youth and women football. The technical director will also be required to establish communication channels with all football administrators and technical personnel (coaches, referees and medical personnel) within and outside of the country for the positive interest of the club, embark on full scale grassroots football development and establishing coaching platform and junior structures in the regions and zones were the club has major interest. According to the advert, the General Secretary will be the chief executive of the secretariat responsible for all day-to-day office activities and will work under the directions of the Executive Committee and the Chairman. The SG will also be the officer in charge for the implementation of the decisions of the Executive Committee. Yanga have also come up with the post of Competitions Director, who will be responsible for all national and international competitions except youth and women competitions. The Sales, Marketing, Team Branding and Event Management Director will be responsible for planning, executing and monitoring strategic marketing activities of the club, while the Finance and Administration Director will be responsible for the management and control of the financial affairs and administrative matters of the club. Yanga have also introduced the post of Legal and Membership Director, who will be responsible for Legal and Membership matters.