LAND Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA) is preparing a driving training programme for women, an initiative that seeks to generate female drivers for trucks and buses. Works, Transport and Communication Minister Engineer Issack Kamwelwe said the driving programme has been organised under the World Bank sponsorship. According to the minister, the training has been necessitated after the government realised that Tanzania lacks female drivers for buses and trucks. The minister announced the proramme in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the official launch of LATRA, its logo and website. The authority was formed from the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA). “The programme is in the process to start as soon as possible after the official launch of LATRA, which will coordinate it…it’s high time women participated fully in economic activities without isolation,” said the minister. Engineer Kamwelwe said LATRA was formed under the Parliament Act no 3 of 2019 whose implementation started on April 29, this year. He said the act also enabled the government to divide SUMATRA into LATRA and Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC), with LATRA handling roads, rail and cable transportations. Cable transportation is the new technology of cargo transportation, which the government is in the process to invest in the country. The minister further directed LATRA to come up with a good system of protecting rights of drivers against the vehicles’ owners, advising the regulator to prepare the law to protect drivers. “Your duties include provision of quality services to public. Identify and register all service providers in transport tools to promote quality and safe service provision to public,” directed Engineer Kamwelwe. Earlier, LATRA Director General Gilliard Ngewe said the regulatory body will continue improving all the good activities that were implemented by SUMATRA. He pointed out that LATRA is keen to improve the working system through the Information and Communication Technology. Mr Ngewe said LATRA will conduct separate researches that will help to improve the land transport sector and enable the public to receive quality services. “We will cooperate with other stakeholders to ensure we provide quality and safe transport services to the public and that is the major aim of the government,” he said. He said the authority will assess and provide special permits to all commercial transporters who meet the terms and conditions of LATRA, with the aim of improving the provision of quality transport services to Tanzanians and decrease the number of road accidents. He explained that the regulator will be responsible for issuance, renewal and cancellation of permits or licences as well as registration of crew and certification of drivers.