TANZANIA’S Focal Team, formed to work on setbacks facing Malawian businesspersons, has advised customs office from both sides of the boarder at Kasumulu to work 24 hours seven days a week. The team named limited working hours as one of the impediment to improve business between Tanzania and Malawi. Speaking shortly after a meeting with the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and Malawi Revenue Authority (MRA) officers at Kasumulu border, Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA), Secretary General who is also team member, Eng Tony Swai said the extension will reduce congestion at Malawi border side apart from speeding-up the business. “We discovered that customs offices from both side work 12 hours. With our plans as directed by the President John Magufuli during his two-day state visit in Malawi, to strengthen business between the two countries, we need to extend working hours here at the border. “Our Dar es Salaam port work 24 hours as well as our transporters, therefore, there is no need for cargoes arrived here at night and wait for the offices to be opened the next day. This will discourage efforts and visions of our two Presidents,” he said. During his two-day visit in Malawi late April, President Magufuli directed Tanzania Port Authority together with other stakeholders to make sure all setbacks that Malawians business people face are solved. The team that arrived in Mbeya last week, travelled from Dar es Salaam via Tanzania Z ambia Railway Authority (TAZ - ARA) to inspect the route as a way to compare means of transportation to be used in order to reduce number of days for Malawians cargoes. The team includes member from TPA, TAZ ARA, TRA, Tanzania Truck Owners Association (TATOA), TAFFA, Tanzania International Container Terminal Services (TICTS), Dar es Salaam Corridor Group (DCG) and Malawi Cargo Centre Limited (MCCL). Also, Eng Swai advised both customs offices to integrate their systems so that it will be easy to release customers’ cargoes and use less clearing time. Malawi, according to him, is one among several others transit market segments in the region, but, Tanzania has yet fully utilize the market as it only handle 311,138 metric tonnes out of 1.0 million metric tonnes that was handled by other competing ports. With the market strategy they have, Eng Swai said they expect more Malawian consignment to be transported through Tanzania and therefore, customs officers from both sides must work 24 hours to handle the huge amount of expected cargo. With the new modal of transportation, he said, cargoes will be loaded from Dar es Salaam port to Mbeya via Tazara railway and will be stored at MCCL dry port. From Mbeya, consignments will be loaded on trucks to Malawi which is few kilometres compared from Dar es Salaam. The Team also advised on the revision of the laws that hinder business between the two countries and make sure unnecessary charges that frustrate business community from both sides are removed. Both customs officers from either side of Kasumulu applauded both presidents for their vision that will strengthen business between Malawi and Tanzania. “We are ready to work 24 hours if it will be decided so, in order to support our President’s efforts and to improve business for the benefits of the people from both countries,” said Mr Majaliwa Omary, TRA Senior Customs Officer at the Kasumulu border. He said the extension of hours to serve their customers will also solve parking challenges that face the Malawian side as they have limited space that caused congestion sometimes.