THE Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), has won its case for payments of over 700m/-against two persons, the Managing Director with Muapi Limited, and the Director of Gravimport-SPRL, following breach of a Lease Agreement for operation of Kigoma Cargo Terminal. Judge Butamo Philip ruled in favor of the TPA, the plaintiff, after granting a default judgment against the two persons, the defendants, after they had failed to present their respective defense in opposing or otherwise of the suit. The court ordered the defendants, joint and severally, to pay the plaintiff a sum of 293,904 US dollars, being the outstanding debt accrued during the Lease Agreement and another 1,900,000/-as outstanding sum in respect of water and electricity bills before the handing over date as per Deed of Hand over. Default judgment is a binding judgment in favor of either party based on some failure to take action by other party. Most often, it is a judgment in favor of a plaintiff when the defendant has not responded to a summons or has failed to appear before a court of law. The failure to take action is the default. On October 15, 2007, the plaintiff and defendants entered into an agreement for operation of Kigoma Cargo Terminal, whereby the plaintiff leased the terminal at a fixed annual rent of 200,000 US dollars for a period of five years. The fee was agreed to be calculated on the basis of 1.6 US dollars per ton. It was stated in the plaint that by March 14, 2011, the defendants had an outstanding debt to a tune of 545,000 US dollars. On May 25, 2011, the defendants submitted to the plaintiff challenges that they faced in operation of the terminal during the period between January 2008 and April 2011. Among the challenges included non-reliability of railway transportation. In response thereto, the parties amended the provisions of the agreement and rent was reduced from 200,000 US dollars per annum to 100,000 US dollars per annum. There was an addendum signed with effect of waiving the outstanding debt amounting to 400,000 US dollars. Despite such waiver of the debt, the defendants neglected to pay the outstanding rent and other charges. As a result, at the expiration of the agreement, the plaintiff and the defendants executed a deed of handover that included acknowledgement by the defendants of the outstanding rent, wharf age and throughput charges to a tune of 293,904 US dollars and 1,900,000/-being outstanding debt for utilities. Upon being served with the plaint, the Managing Director with Muapi filed a written statement of defense while the Director of Gravimport-SPRL did not file any. When the case was called for first Pre-Trial Conference on October 30, 2018, all the defendants did not appear in court despite the fact that they were served with the notice to appear by way of publication in two newspapers. Consequently, the court struck out the written statement of defense under the provisions of Rule 31(l) (b) of the High Court (Commercial Division) Procedure Rule, 2012. Following the striking out of the defense, the plaintiff lodged an application for default judgment for the prayers in the plaint. Pursuant to Rule 21(1) of the High Court (Commercial Division) Procedure Rule, 2012, the court entered a default Judgment for the plaintiff in all the prayers, including those requiring the defendants to pay interests on decretal sum, one at a commercial rate of 23 percent and another seven percent per annum.