ENERGY Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani, has made a special appeal to Kagera residents and all Tanzanians in eight regions where the 1445-km East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP) will pass to ensure that it is safeguarded, while at the same time take advantage of the project. Dr Kalemani made the appeal yesterday while opening a stakeholders’ meeting held in Bukoba Municipal Council. He noted that out of the 1445 kms, Tanzania takes the lion’s share, with about 1147 kms, almost 80 per cent. About 10,000 Tanzanians will get employment, out of which 2,017 will be Kagera residents, he said. He explained that the oil pipeline will pass through eight regions, 24 districts and 134 wards, naming the respective regions to include Kagera, Geita, Shinyanga, Tabora, Singida, Dodoma, Manyara and Tanga. In Kagera region, the pipeline will pass through 20 wards, 34 villages and 117 hamlets. Dr Kalemani also said so far about three components had been completed, namely geological studies, geophysical studies and geotechnical studies. Under EACOP implementation, there will be four pumping stations on Tanzanian side. One will be at Kyaka (Missenyi) in Kagera region, another at Singida and two others in Tanga. Also, there will be 17 camps, while two will be in Kagera region and one in Muleba and Missenyi. “This is a golden opportunity. We have a duty to safeguard the pipeline night and day. Let’s all play our role satisfactorily,” he said. Minister Kalemani further elaborated that more research for crude oil in the country was continuing, with bright indications for early oil discovery in Songea, Tanga and Rukwa. He noted that by next month, compensation process will be in final stages, whereby all affected people will be notified and know the exact amount to be paid, while by September this year, final negotiations with Uganda will be concluded. The USD 3.5bn oil pipeline will take three years to be completed, stretching from Hoima, in Uganda to Chongeleani in Tanga, while three international companies have been identified to do the job, including Total (France), Tullow (UK) and CNOOC (China). Dr Kalemani commended Presidents Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and his counterpart President Dr John Pombe Magufuli for the wise decision to allow the oil pipeline to pass through Tanzanian soil, noting that this will hasten people’s development. He said President Magufuli’s administration has embraced industrialisation as part of its idea to address unemployment among the youth in the country, and this should be supported, adding that without an efficient industrial base, the country’s economy can hardly develop and create job opportunities. The first foundation stone for the US dollars 3.5 billion project was laid by the two Heads of State in Chongoleani, Tanga Region in Tanzania on August 5, 2017. The 1,445-kilometre duct is planned to run from Hoima District in mid-western Uganda to Tanzania’s southern Tanga Port along the Indian Ocean coast. Out of the 1,445 kilometers of the pipeline, 1,147 will be in Tanzania while 300 kilometers will be in Uganda. The crude oil pipeline will be able to transport 200,000 liters of oil per day once the project starts operating. The project will be able to generate employment of between 6,000 and 10,000 people. President Magufuli described it as crucial for the development of the two countries and the East African region in general.