THE High Court has rejected some requests by Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) over government’s position on suspension of the Tribunal, which was established by Southern African Development Community (SADC) members to provide alternative remedial measures of violation of bloc citizens’ rights. This followed a judgment delivered on Tuesday by a panel while determining a constitutional petition lodged by the TLS, as petitioner. The panel comprised former Principal Judge Shaban Lila, currently a justice at Court of Appeal, retired Judge Aloysius Mujulizi and in service Judge Salvatory Bongole. The respondents in the petition were the Attorney General (AG) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Advocates Daimu Halfani and Stephen Axwesso appearing for the petitioner, while Principal State Attorney Sylvia Matiku represented the respondents into the matter. In the case, the petitioner had sought for a number of reliefs, including a declaration order that the respondents knowingly contributed to or did not take adequate measures to prevent the suspension of the Tribunal by the SADC Summit of Heads of State to government. Such act, he said, violated Article 13 (1) (3) and 6(a) and knowingly contributed to the decisions and actions of the government of Tanzania and provisions of the African Charter, Protocol on the relations between the African Union, SADC Treaty, Tribunal Protocol and general principal of rule of law. The petitioner had sought for orders that the respondents did not prevent the review of protocol on the Tribunal resolved by SADC Summit of Heads of States or government in exclusion of the private sector and civil society and contributed the government decisions in breach of Article 23 of the Treaty. In the 52 pages well researched judgment, however, the panel said that the resolution to replace the existing SADC Tribunal Protocol is technical in law and fact, besides being mere proposal to amend the Treaty and as such subject to ratification by the Parliament. “Under the principle of separation of powers, it is rather premature for the court to rule on the legality or otherwise of the process, which is still in the territory of the Executive pending presentation to the Legislature,” the judged said in the judgment dated June 4, 2019. They pointed out that all concerns, fears, apprehensions, determination of the public interest and issues relating to participation and involvement of stakeholders on the proposed amendments can always be dealt with when or before the matter is placed before Parliament in accordance with its procedures. According to them, striking a delicate balance between upholding the doctrine of separation of powers and the courts’ mandate to maintain checks and balances, the court is constrained not to interfere with the transient functions of other organs. “The proposed amendment to the Tribunal Protocol by the impugned new Tribunal Protocol calls for amendment of the Treaty and as such, subject to ratification by Parliament. For that reason, the remedies prayed for and the petitioner is hereby rejected,” the judges declared. However, they pointed out that in terms of Article 16 (1), the Tribunal shall be constituted to ensure adherence to and the proper interpretation of the provisions of the Treaty and subsidiary instruments and to adjudicate upon such disputes as may be referred to it. The judges, therefore, ruled that the suspension of operations of the SADC Tribunal and the failure or refusal to appoint judges contrary to the clear provisions, was inimical to the rule of law as foundational principle inherent to the legitimacy of the community and as expressly entrenched in the Treaty.