DODOMA City is set to host an investment symposium, which is expected to promote business opportunities in the country’s capital city scheduled from June 27-28, this year. The symposium is designed to ensure it makes the city an investment hub in the near future. Dodoma Regional Commissioner Dr Binilith Mahenge revealed recently during the opening of Mkombozi Commercial Bank branch here that the two-day event is expected to draw participants from within and outside the country. “The aim of the symposium is to showcase business operators on opportunities available in Dodoma and invite them to invest in the region,” said the RC while delivering his speech during the ceremony to open the tenth branch of Mkombozi Bank in Dodoma downtown. The event was graced by the Vice President, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan. Dodoma is the country’s main grape growing region, making Tanzania the second largest producer of wine in Sub Saharan after South Africa. The region has also ideal weather for cashew and sunflower farming. Dr Mahenge pointed out that apart from agricultural opportunities, Dodoma has a good number of business opportunities resulting from the government’s move to the central region, making it one of the fastest growing city in the country. On his part, Dodoma Urban Member of Parliament, Mr Anthony Mavunde, expressed gratitude to the government for removing levy on grape juice, saying the action has uplifted the level of purchasing power among the grape farmers. “I wish to express my gratitude to the government for removing levy on grape juice. Grape farmers have been delighted by the move,” said the MP who doubles as Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Policy, Employment, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Youth and Disabled Persons. Speaking at the same event, Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, appealed to financial institutions to extend their services to remote rural areas. “Financial institutions can play a great role in improving the agricultural sector by offering agricultural loans,” said the deputy minister.