FROM the pre historical time the savannah governed by a strong principle of survival for the fittest and death to the animals which are very weak. In the Savannah weakness is defined as inability to defend your family or resources against powerful enemies such as lion, leopard, cheetah or spotted hyena. Weighing between 3 to 16 kilograms, porcupine, pangolin and honey badger are small mammals that live in the savannah where cheetah, leopard and lions fight each other to have an upper hand. Over and above other dwellers of Serengeti, Saadani, Katavi, Ruaha and any other national park. Scientists describe a porcupine as a large rodent that identify itself with a coat of sharp spines and a pangolin is a small mammal which is marked by overlapping, protective scales while a honey badger is a small courageous carnivorous which is capable of standing against a pride of lions made by four to six strong individuals. Scientists say pangolins are almost completely covered in overlapping, protective scales which makes up about 20 percent of their body weight. Moreover the scales are composed of keratin and comprise the same material that forms human hair and fingernails, depending on the species. Pangolin weight varies from 1.6 to 3.3 kilograms and their length ranges from 12 to 39 inches. There are three species of pangolins in Africa which are the giant pangolin. The tree pangolin and the most widespread, the ground pangolin which is mostly found in central Tanzania. Pangolins are normally solitary as females are usually alone with their young but occasionally are accompanied in their burrow by a male. These small mammals use their sense of smell to locate termite and ant nests. They dig the insects from mounds with their claws and using their 16 inches long tongues to peak and eat them but in a resting position the tongue is pulled back into a sheath that retracts into the chest cavity. They are eq uipped with large salivary glands that supply the long tongue with gummy mucus to which ants and termites are trapped and stick on it before being dumped into the mouth easily. Pangolins are nocturnal and remain in their burrows during the day but are able to roll themselves into a ball to defend themselves while it takes considerable force to unroll them. The armor plated scales which protect them are very sharp capable of cutting a human finger if it is inserted between them because they are controlled by powerful muscles to protect the inner delicate part. Before rolling up its body to protect itself from predator’s claws a pangolin may try to scare its enemy by strongly emitting a bad smelling secretions from an anal glands. The common Pangolin prefers sandy soils and is found in woodlands and savannas. Within reach of water where they walk some miles each night to look for food and water but tends to return into the same burrow which they may occupy for many months. The Swahili name for Pangolin is K akakuona, in Tanzania people respect and love pangolin. With a small body weighing between 6 and 12 kilograms the honey badger is fearless animal which is capable to stand confidently to fight a lion with more than 18 0 kilograms. Fossils records indicate the species firstly appeared between 5.3 million to 2.5 million years ago before the present time. Scientists say during those pre historical days, the climate was moderately warm but about 8 million years ago, temperatures dropped sharply once again, and the Antarctic ice sheet was already approaching its present-day size and thickness. Scientists continue to say it was the ex tensive glaciations of Pliocene which triggered the major cause of shrinking of forests and the spread of grasslands which dominate savannas. From their side zoologists suggest that it was during the Pliocene when ancestors of modern honey badger developed heavy coat which protected them against a terrifying cold situation, in the modern time. The honey badger has a fairly long body, but is distinctly thick set and broad across the back. Its skin is remarkably loose, and allows it to turn and twist freely within it. The skin around the neck is 6 millimeters thick, this is an adaptation to fighting courageously with big predators such as lion, leopard, cheetah and hyena which together they live competitively in the savannah. From those old days the honey badger developed special long fur measuring between 40 to 50 millimeters to protect them against harsh cold condition of winter. This adaptability enabled their body to be covered with, bristle like hairs which shorten during hot situation leaving its belly almost bare to enable the body to release temperature. The head of a honey badger is very small and flat with a short muzzle. Its eyes are small while the ears are little more than ridges on the skin which is another possible adaptation to avoiding damage while fighting. Scientists say the honey badger was created as a fighter because its skull is very solidly built. With that of adults having no trace of an independent bone structure while their brain-case is broader than that of dogs. Honey badgers live alone in holes which each individual dig. This is because these small mammals are skilled diggers and able to dig tunnels into hard ground in 10 minutes. These burrows usually only have one passage and a nesting chamber and usually measure from 1 to 3 meters long. Zoologists say sometimes due to their fearless habit, honey badgers invade other animals burrows as they force out occupants such as aardvark, warthog and hyenas. These are intelligent animals and are one of few species known to be capable of using tools. They are known to use tools and other means to get into place where food is available. Unlike the notorious honey badger, a porcupine is humble but displays defensive behavior when troubled, and zoologists say often these displays are shown when a porcupine becomes agitated or annoyed and these displays are ranked from least aggressive to most aggressive respectively. Scientist have grouped the display into four stages, when faced by attack an individual will embark on quill erection that enables it to look bigger and dangerous. Second it will make teeth clattering to cause warning noise to let predators know not to come closer. Then emission of bad smell, and but when the situation get worse it will retaliate through an attack. Despite of its size the porcupine is a very smart animal which know how to use its body for defense. Scientists say when agitated an individual will vibrate its incisors vibrate against each an action which produce sound to terrify its enemy. This action is often paired with body shivering which is used to further display the dangerous q uills. At the same time with all their beauty, bad belief by some people in different parts of Africa have affected the population of Pangolin because it is believed that the mammal has magic power of neutralizing witchcraft and evil spirits when its scales are mix ed with bark from certain trees. In some areas pangolins are sacrificed for rainmaking ceremonies, and in Far East especially in Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia and China people hunt and kill the mammals only for its body parts. From Makongorosi, Dukambovu to Ungalimitedi, Mtaa wa Simu and Majimatitu, Swahili people use the name Nyegere for honey badgers. Meanwhile in Iringa, Ruvuma, Njombe and other areas where the honey badger is present people are very much afraid of these small mammals, This is because its widely believed that the honey badger has developed special interest on chopping off private parts of male who fight with the animal. Unlike the wide spread belief that the porcupine is capable of throwing its q uills. Scientists say during attack it will erect them and wait for the predator to touch the sharp end. The porcupine in Swahili language is known as Nungunungu like pangolin and honey badger. The small mammal is occasionally eaten by people in some culture in different parts of Asia and Africa. But there some few people who use their q uills for traditional medicine and witchcraft practice and this contribute into their significant decline in the forest where they are able to live for more than 25 years before an individual becomes weak and unable to meet different challenges of the savannah. rstanslaus@yahoo.com”