AT last, the much awaited national team Taifa Stars home and away kits were unveiled yesterday ahead of the upcoming Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals in Egypt. The well blended kits which contain all national flag colours will officially start to be used today, when Taifa Stars face Egypt in one of their build up games prior to the commencement of the biggest football event in Africa. However, there are some changes on the unveiled new shirts as the usual 'Serengeti' name which appeared on the front part of the previous Stars jersey has been replaced by two horizontal lines depicting two colours on the national flag, while the antelope head is revealed to the left-hand abdominal side of the kit. Additionally, the logo of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) is seen at the left top side, while that of manufacturers Uhlsport is located at the base of the round necked kit. The first kit to be unveiled on the day was for the President John Magufuli, who was given both home (blue) and away (yellow) jerseys bearing his name at the back. Stars are already on the battlefield in Egypt as they aim to make it big after 39 years of absence in the massive football competition on the continent. Their first match will be against Senegal on June 23rd before taking on neighbours Kenya and finally Algeria to complete their group C mission. However, presiding over the colorful occasion here, Chairman of Star's Winning Committee Paul Makonda said the unveiled kits are a symbol of loyalty to Taifa Stars and the country at large. “This jersey is for the whole nation meaning that it should be honored by every Tanzanian,” Makonda said. He continued: “Since all the national colours are represented on it, we can easily be identified by wearing them that we belong to this great country as such, people should not be afraid to buy and wear the original kits." Makonda then sounded a stern warning to the dealers who will use this opportunity to sell fake jerseys, saying once they are caught, they will face full weight of the law. "I know that some people were waiting us to reveal these kits so that they can copy the design and start making money by producing fake jerseys. We will not tolerate this thing anymore,” he said. Earlier, TFF President, Wallace Karia said the kits are for all national teams and will only be distributed to the authorised dealers to sell to supporters. “We have included on them all national colours which is one of the major symbols that reveals our identify,” Karia said. He also encouraged the Star’s Winning Committee to continue doing its work of promoting Taifa Stars even though the competition will be held away from home.