PROHIBITION of plastic carrier bags which took effect on June 1, this year, dominated messages by government leaders and clerics during Eid el Fitr celebrations countrywide. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa urged religious leaders during the Eid ‘baraza’ in Tanga yesterday, to educate their followers against using the bags due to their detrimental effects to the environment. “Plastic carrier bags take up to 500 years to decay; they thus affect animals and block drainage systems among other effects to the surroundings,” the premier remarked. The PM was nevertheless pleased that there has been positive response from the public since the ban of the bags came into effect. Speaking earlier in Mwanza, the City Director, Mr Kiomoni Kibamba, reminded residents against using plastic carrier bags, advising them to instead resort to alternative eco-friendly bags. “Stern measures await people or traders who will be found with the banned materials,” Mryear, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa declared the ban of importation, manufacturing, distribution and sales of plastics, effective the 1st of this month. Minister Makamba has urged the public to continue collecting the bags in the set collection centres, so as to support the investors while responding to the government’s ban, whose intention is mostly focusing on environmental conservation. “However, these investors only go for in-house recycling activities using unused plastic bags because they declared to have no washing facilities for used bags. “We therefore urge the then manufactures, importers, suppliers and sellers of plastic bags to support this kind of investment through taking the bags to the set collection centres,” stated the minister. It was announced that about 140 collection centres have been set at ward level, eight centres at district level and some few at the national level in Dar es Salaam. The minister stressed that the plastic bags had lots of negatives, including affecting livestock and creatures in water bodies as well as causing floods when the bags block waterways (trenches). He added that researches showed that the bags have long life-span, taking between 400 to 1,000 years for them to decay, hence, negatively impacting the environment and people’s health. Some 137 countries, including neighbouring Kenya and Rwanda, have already taken measures against plastic bag uses, according to the minister