FORMER national football team Taifa Stars goalkeeper Juma Kaseja has labelled the just elapsed league season as fruitful to his football career. Kaseja, who is now trading with Dar es Salaam based KMC revealed that ever since he joined the club, he has always been happy to the extent that he was given responsibilities to control his compatriots in the team. “As you know, I have played for many teams in the country, but at KMC, there have been special moments I have never experienced anywhere before,” Kaseja said. He further said the level of unity among players backed by cordial relationship with the technical bench hugely enabled them to finish on position four on the league ladder something he said could have been hard to fulfill if the team was not one. “Whenever we made a decision, it was agreed by all and it is not a hidden fact that when members of the same group have one goal, it becomes easy to be accomplished,” he said. The ex Simba SC and Young Africans goalie was speaking after being decorated with the Disciplined Player Award of his club at a special occasion held in the city recently. Commenting on his future with KMC, Kaseja said most players including him inked a one year contract which is nearing to an end but insisted that should a chance come to extend it, he will not hesitate. “The first priority as far as signing a new deal is concerned will be directed here (KMC) but since football is my profession, I can work at any club,” said him. Also, Kaseja said generally, the past season was tough for many teams as evidenced by few points which separated them on the standings insisting that other previous seasons were not as stiff as the just concluded one. KMC, which were making their debut in the top flight contest, had a good ride which saw them winning most of their games and were always a thorn in fresh when facing the league’s big three sides Simba, Yanga and Azam. They also succeeded to reach into the last four of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) before losing 1-0 to Azam FC. However, most analysts have predicted that if KMC will return with the similar hype as they did last season, they can cause big changes in the country’s football circles.