ON Tuesday, the Institute for Economics & Peace (IEP), an independent, non-partisan, non-profit think tank dedicated to shifting the world’s focus to peace as a positive, achievable and tangible measure of human wellbeing and progress, released the Global Peace Index (GPI) 2019. In this GPI 2019, Tanzania is ranked the first in the East African Community (EAC) region, the 7th in sub-Saharan Africa and the 54th out of the 163 surveyed independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness. Three thematic domains - the level of societal safety and security, the extent of ongoing domestic and international conflict and the degree of militarisation - were measured. Additionally, this year’s report includes analysis of trends in positive peace: the attitudes, institutions, and structures that create and sustain peaceful societies and also looks at the relationship between changes in positive peace and economic changes. Tanzania has continued maintaining peace and as it envisions becoming the industrial and middle-income economy by 2025, peacekeeping is extremely important in this regard. GPI report is good news to all of us to see where we are and where we are going or where we ought to be going to maintain a peaceful atmosphere with ourselves and our neighbouring countries and other countries across Africa and the world. For a long time, Tanzania has been renowned as the haven of peace and national leaders have been time and time again reminding all citizens the importance of maintaining peace, stressing that once we lose it becomes extremely difficult to regain it. So, the national leaders led by President John Magufuli have on various occasions vowed to maintain the peace we have at all costs. Of course, there are many examples across the world, which attest to the necessity of peace in and around ourselves, as individuals and a nation as a whole. To contribute to peacekeeping in and outside Africa, Tanzania has been participating in the United Nations peacekeeping missions and some peacekeepers have lost their lives, while on duty. There are today many countries in and outside the continent, which are fighting against each other for various reasons and innocent lives in those countries have been lost as a result of either ethnic, economic or political conflict, which could have perhaps been resolved amicably. In this regard, we understand that peace is necessary for development and for social wellbeing. Thus, GPI 2019 should inspire us as individuals and as a nation to maintain peace in our families, peace in the country, peace on the continent and peace outside Africa and as Mwalimu Julius Nyerere used to say at the time when referring to liberation struggles in Africa, we too should see ourselves as lacking true peace if our neighbouring or other countries have no peace. This should, therefore, remind us the necessity of maintaining peace not only in Tanzania, but also in and outside Africa.