TANZANIA Red Cross Society (TRCS), now shifts from item-based humanitarian aid to cash-based assistance. A move aimed at helping victims of disasters to cover costs of their other basic needs. The new initiative, dubbed as ‘cash response’ is first of its kind in the country since the society was established over 55 years ago. Since its introduction, TRCS has been working hand in hand with the government, through the disaster management department under the Prime Minister’s Office, to tame disaster-related humanitarian effects. Launching the programme in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the organisation said introduction of the system was to go in line with changing of humanitarian tactics around the globe. TRCS acting Secretary General, Renatus Mkaruka explained that the society deemed that giving the items like bed sheets, food, mattress and others may not cover all needs of the victims. “We found out that we can give the victims the items but sometimes they even don’t have money to pay for school fees of their children after the disaster or other needs that we actually can’t know,” Mr Mkaruka elaborated. He went on arguing that supply of items have been more costly that transferring money to the victims. “Item-based assistance will require us to do procurement, make arrangement for transportation and other procedures that cost us time and money,” he said. However, he said, at the beginning TRCS will be using both means: provision of items and cash before phasing out the supply of items. Some of the preparations made for implementing the programme included putting up some Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), infrastructure and completed bank procedures. To start with, TRCS has entered into agreement with the NMB Bank, which has set up special data base from which the money to the victims will be transferred. After yesterday’s launch, the programme will be piloted in two wards of Tandale and Kigogo in Dar es Salaam, before moving to other regions. The residents of the two wards are victims of rains that pounded the city of Dar es Salaam during March and April this year. The programme will extend cash response humanitarian aid to 459 affected families at the two wards, with each family receiving 150,000/-through mobile money transfer. Each of the affected families yesterday received half of the money—75,000/-and will receive the balance in the next two weeks. The cash response is undertaken after the TRCS had conducted assessment to establish actual victims and their needs. A ssistant Director for Disaster Management Department in the Prime Minister Office, Bashiru Taratibu who officiated the programme launch said Kenya had already started the programme, urging other stakeholders to emulate.