FEW weeks after the ban on plastic carrier bags took effect, Tanzania Bureau Standards (TBS) has issued guidelines to producers, distributors and importers of non-woven bags regarded as the best alternatives carrier bags. The guidelines require them to ensure alternative bags manufactured or imported take into account the minimum weight of 70GSM (papers weighing 70grams per square metre). Furthermore, the guidelines want an alternative bag to be recyclable, to indicate its carrying capacity in kilogrammes, to have the producers’ address and institutions that will be found guilty of contravening them. For instance, manufacturing or importation of prohibited plastic bags and plastic wrappings can lead to fines of up to 1bn/- or imprisonment of up to two years or both. Likewise, possession and usage can lead someone to pay a fine of up to 200,000/- or imprisonment of up to seven days or both. Speaking in Dodoma, Permanent Secretary in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) Joseph Malongo told reporters that the government had implemented the ban on plastic bags by 100 per cent. Her selection was based on her leadership in building TAHA and supporting the establishment and management of its subsidiaries as well as personal efforts and commitment to transforming the horticultural industry in Tanzania. Specifically she is credited for building an industry system within TAHA for effective dialogue with the government to ensure an enabling business environment through policy and regulatory reforms in favour of the industry. The guidelines have come on the right time as stakeholders and users raised the concern over the quality of non-woven fabrics, price and thickness. For the producers, distributors and importers of packages exempted by the law must contact TBS for certification of their products and get a licence of the quality of packages that are environmental friendly. The Plastics Carrier Bags Regulations, 2019, which prohibits the importation, exportation, manufacturing, sales, storage, supply and use of plastic carrier bags regardless of their thickness took effect in Mainland Tanzania on June 1, 2019. They were published under the Government Notice No 394 of 2019 on May 17, 2019 and prohibit persons from selling or offering commodities wrapped in plastics for sale unless the nature of such commodities requires plastic wrapping. The regulations also require persons intending to import, export, manufacture or sell plastic carrier bags after June 1, 2019 to register for a licence or permit. The regulations impose stern penalties to individuals ddressing a news conference, Mr Mwalongo, who was flanked by National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) Director General, Dr Samwel Mafwenga, said public response on the use of alternative bags expressed their commitment to preserving and protecting the country’s environment. “Although we still have a challenge on a shortage of alternative bags, we believe in the next few days their availability will increase and eventually the cost of procuring them will go down,’’ he noted. According to him, NEMC is continuing with its operations to prevent the importation, distribution and use of plastic bags and that the government will relentlessly continue implementing the ban. “He asked all Tanzanians to continue collaborating with NEMC, TBS and TFDA to ensure the country’s environment is preserved by not using the banned plastic bags.” However, according to Dr Mafwenga, people have so far responded by 100 per cent as far as the use of banned plastic carrier bags is concerned.