Lillian Madeje is among the most influential women in Tanzania who has been on the forefront of building the skills of youth over the past few years. Under her recent initiative 'Niajiri' platform, she has been able to reach hundreds of youths to get access to soft skills training which prepares them for self-employment, and others carefully matched to employers. In collaboration with her friend Zuweina Mohammed, they co-created an annual fully selected entrepreneurs, where 400 were sent to the US, 200 to The Netherlands, 200 to the European Union, and 400 in other parts of the globe. “You can imagine the scramble for the 400 individuals, and I was shocked when I was among the selected. A female entrepreneur from Tanzania sent to represent the country. This was one of those once in a lifetime opportunities I got when I was recently invited to attend the Global Entrepreneurship Summit the Aga Khan University, TWAWEZA, AB InBev Africa zone and many others. Along the same lines, this year they are prepping for their annual conference in September, with water being the theme. Lillian has represented the nation in many international meetings, among them the World Economic Forum in January 2016, when she was 29 years old, and managed to represent Tanzanian youths very effectively. Earlier this month, Lillian was among 1,200 careconference known as ‘Bits and Bytes’ in 2016 with the intention of building better communities through innovative technology and data driven solutions. They have been working with universities such as Ardhi University (ARU), during their Urban Planning Challenge Hackathon in 2017 and Arusha Technical College in 2018 during the EA Agri Hackathon, where youths were presented with opportunities to work hand in hand with various organizations. Among the organisations are the East Africa Institute of (GES), 2019, which was held from June 3rd to 5th at The Hague, Netherlands” she said. Before I lose you, let me give you the background of what Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), is, and why to her, this was a big deal. GES is a unique gathering where over 2,000 government officials, investors and entrepreneurs from across the globe get a chance of learning new partnerships, investments and collaborations. This year, the theme cut across five main themes that are relevant and key to the transformation of African societies, which is water, health, energy, agriculture/food and connectivity. In this article, Madeje likes to share her learning experience from attending this high level event, and this will be a mixture of conversations with several powerful women and her own general takeaways. The Power of Branding "Sitting on numerous boards across Africa and the Netherlands, the founder of LEAP Africa, who is also the Co-Partner of Sahel Consulting and the Co-Founder of AACE Foods of Nigeria, Ndidi Nwuneli, who is one of my heroines anytime. Her book “Reaching Millions with Impact” (which I received as a gift from a sister friend Chidiogo Akunyili-Crosby) is my start up bible on how I should navigate in building a world class venture that impacts millions," she says. She says that this her opportunity to learn from the source, and she made sure she trailed her like a shadow with the intention of taking notes at every point and turn. She says that her major take home from their discussions was the simple fact that one should speak up and be very intentional in communicating one’s branding to ensure that people are clear on where you stand. The Humble Servant Leader "If you are in the scale up world, you understand when someone talks about securing Series A, B or C investment, and how as a scale up, you build your enterprise to secure such series investment. Here, Maddie narrates her experience. With this context, I would like to introduce you to Dayu Dara, who started her career with Go- Jek in 2015 and co-founded Go- Life (subdivision of Go-Jek in Indonesia). During our introduction dinis ner, this quiet, soft spoken lady lightly touches on this and that, from when she joined Go-Jek in 2015, where they scaled from 10 to 5,000 employees across Indonesia and have recently secured Series F funding! If you are keeping up, I didn’t even know series F funding existed from the A, B and C’s!" To put it in plain language, they have secured about 2 billion a dollars for Go Jek in recent rounds, with a valuation of 9.5 billion dollars. General Takeaways The opportunity to walk around The Hague during the GES 2019 exposed me to the real concept of a city built for its people. I witnessed bicycle traffic instead of the traditional car traffic in the streets. Please, do take note that in cities like The Hague and Amsterdam, there are more bicycles than residents, and 70 percent of all movements are made by bikes..... talk about a healthy city. Reflecting on my country, I am hopeful that cities such as Dodoma which has its Master Plan currently in review, will be built with consideration on certain things like easy access to transportation, social services and indeed a green city in its entirety. Navigating my way through the workshop sessions, I was thrilled when I bumped into Fahad Awadh of YYTZ - Agro processing, one of Tanzanian daring young entrepreneurs working in the cashew processing sector...... talk about cracking a hard nut (all pun intended). This to me only reaffirmed the space that young entrepreneurs have in transforming the nation, albeit with accompanying enabling policies and infrastructure in place. To close it off, I am back home to the daily grind of life, and if there is one take away from all of this exposure, it is the fact that I have a choice in being part of the transformational change in my country. On this note, I continue on with the challenge of shaping Tanzanian talent to be competitive in the marketplace. This is through Niajiri Platform which currently boasts of over 6,000 users who have access to soft skills training and tools such as creating a winning curriculum vitae.