TANZANIA Tobacco Control Forum (TTCF) has called upon the government to make tobacco control a national priority and enact an effective tobacco control law to enable Tanzanians to realise their right to a healthy environment and tobacco-free lifestyles. TTCF Executive Director Lutgard Kagaruki said in Dar es Salaam on Friday that as Tanzania joined the rest of the world to commemorate World No Tobacco Day, it was high time the country to come up with a comprehensive tobacco control Highwaylaw that was in line with the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). Ms Kagaruki said Tanzania had ratified the WHO FCTC in 2007 after which it was agreed that a new FCTC compliant tobacco control law be enacted to replace the flawed and outdated Tobacco Products (Regulation) Act, 2003 (TPRA, 2003), but the law was yet to be enacted. “Within the East African Region, Tanzania remains the only one without a comprehensive tobacco control law, which is in line with WHO FCTC. Zanzibar has an effective law and, recently, Ethiopia enacted the strongest tobacco control in Africa,” she added. She said, according to the Tanzania Steps Survey Report (2012) of the Ministry of Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children (MoHCDGEC), National Institute of Medical Research (NIMR) and WHO, an average of 14.1 per cent (men 26.0 per cent and women 2.9 per cent) Tanzanians smoke. Ms Kagruki added that 17.5 per cent and 24.9 per cent of the population got exposed to second smoke at home and the workplace respectively. Tobacco is responsible for 17,400 deaths annually in the country. “There is no safe level of exposure to tobacco smoke. It affects both smokers and non-smokers. Smokers are up to 22 times more likely to develop lung cancer in their lifetime compared to non-smokers and non-smokers exposed to second-hand smoke at home or in the workplace have a 30 per cent higher risk of developing lung cancer,” Ms Kagaruki said. She detailed that both maternal and paternal smoking slowed lung growth in children and caused lower respiratory tract illnesses such as bronchitis and pneumonia, particularly during the first year of life. Basing on this year’s commemoration theme: “Tobacco and Lung Health” she said breathing was key to life and, there was strong evidence suggesting that people, who breathed cleaner air tend to live better and healthier lives. According to Ms Kagaruki tobacco smoke is known to be a major pollutant, which contains more than 7,000 chemicals with 70 of them known to cause cancer. World No Tobacco Day is an annual event marked on every May 31 to encourage the adoption and implementation of strong and comprehensive tobacco control measures to save the lives of millions of people across the world from the devastating consequences of tobacco use.