THE DPO Group, payment service provider (PSP) in Africa, has rolled out Africa’s first business to business payment card. DPO’s DumaCard, which is offered as a plastic card as well as in virtual form, is available initially to its 10,000 business customers in Kenya and Tanzania, with plans to roll the card out across the other 14 countries in which DPO Group operates, according to Mr Eran Feinstein, DPO Group Chief Executive Officer. “This is an extremely exciting development particularly for businesses in Africa – the growth of which is critical to economic development. Our goal is to support the growth of businesses throughout Africa by allowing them to pay and be paid securely and effortlessly throughout the continent and internationally, ensuring that more organisations in Africa are financially included and have the same opportunity to transact online as elsewhere in the world,” said Mr Feinstein on the sidelines of the Karibu-Kilifair tourism expo yesterday. According to Mr Feinstein, the new Duma card will enable businesses in Africa access new markets by enabling online payments regionally and internationally without any hustles. The payment system targets travel providers, hotel and airlines in a bid to increase their revenues through safe and secure means. “More than 85 per cent of our clients are in the travel industry which is clear indication of how safe and secure this service is,” observed the DPO Group CEO. He further detailed that the DumaCard could be used by merchants as a single or multiple-use card and can be topped up regularly using mobile money so users do not have to have a bank account in order to be able to use the card. “As a multi-currency card, it can be used across Africa as well as internationally and in local currencies. It can also be customised to allow merchants to pay single or multiple recipients.” “We expect it to be particularly popular amongst its travel partners who include tour operators and airlines who will use the card to pay international airlines and global distribution systems.” Founded in 2006, DPO Group currently works with 45,000 merchants, including more than 60 airlines, hotels, restaurants and travel agents all over Africa.