The government has submitted requests to secure concessional loans and grants from China to complete the ongoing major projects, including the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Makutupora in Dodoma to Lake Zone regions. Other projects are rehabilitation of the Central Railway Line that would enable the country to have two railway lines from Dar es Salaam to the Lake Zone and western part of the country, upon completion of the SGR project. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ in Beijing as he was attending coordinator’s meeting on the implementation of the Summit of the Forum on China- Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) outcomes, Minister of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, also spoke about theexpansion of the Jiangsu- Shinyanga Agricultural Industrial Park. Regarding the construction of the SGR, Prof Kabudi said his Chinese counterpart had declared an intention to support it and was now finalizing the evaluation report of the project before submitting it to the government for further procedures. “Right now the government is spending money from own sources to finance the SGR project from Dar es Salaam to Makutupora in Dodoma so we are in the process of mobilizing money to fund the remaining part from Dodoma,” said the minister. The Dar es Salaam-Makutupora SGR project covers a total of 7 26 kilometres. It is constructed in two phases, the first one being from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro (3 00 kilometres) at a cost of 2.7 tr/- and the second phase covers 426 Kilometres from Morogoro to Makutupora in Dodoma region. He reiterated that China is a true friend and development partner basing on the fact that it has been supporting Tanzania without interfering in its internal matters… .and the government is happy,” he noted. The minister also got an opportunity to meet his host, Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs, Wang Yi, who, among other issues, assured Tanzania of continued support in facilitating development. The FOCAC coordinators’ meeting that was held in Beijing China from 24th to 25th June, aimed at upholding multilateralism and build a closer China-Africa community with a shared future, was concluded on Tuesday with a number of resolutions. Some of the resolutions that were reached by coordinators from China, Africa Union (AU) and 53 African states were on strengthening coordination on policies and mechanisms at the bilateral and multilateral levels. They also agreed to work for greater synergies in market development, project cooperation and intellectual support whereby China will seek greater complimentarily between its strength in finance, technology, equipment and production capacity and Africans. Figures have it that, the volume of bilateral trade between China and Africa stood at 200bn US dollars in 2018 with the Chief Economist of China Development Bank (CDB) Liu Ying saying the trade between the two has been witnessing steady increase for the past 16 years. According to him, China’s exports to Africa were 104.91bn US dollars while imports from Africa were 99.28bn US dollars. Addressing a press conference in Tuesday here, China’s Vice Minister of Commerce Qian Keming, said that in their next step, China and Africa will carry out capacity building cooperation and promote infrastructure, trade and investment cooperation.