FROM time immemorial illicit drugs ranging from Cocaine that normally comes in a powder form to Heroin and Marijuana being consumed by some people in the public, the effects on their bodies and brains later on become regrettable. Many such people have suffered painful health consequences that are long-lasting and permanent, some even continuing after stopping to take the substances. In the society there are a few ways an addict can take such drugs, including injection, inhalation and ingestion and the effects of the drug on the body can depend on how the drug is delivered. For example, the injection of drugs directly into the bloodstream has an immediate impact, while ingestion has a delayed effect. But at the end of the day, all misused drugs affect the brain and cause large amounts of dopamine, a neurotransmitter that helps regulate our emotions, motivation and feelings of pleasure, to flood the brain and produce a “high.” Eventually, the drugs can change how the brain works and interfere with the person’s ability to make choices, leading to intense cravings and compulsive drug use. Over time, this behaviour can turn into a substance dependency or drug addiction and render the consumer a ‘slave,’ hence with the above background, the government; being the custodian of its citizens has all the rights to fight it tooth and nail. It is good news to Tanzanians that the Fifth Phase government has curbed it by 95 per cent especially their importation into the country, as Parliament was told recently. Making the revelation the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Youth, Employment and the Disabled), Jenister Mhagama, said after succeeding to seal loopholes for drug traffickers, the government is currently focusing on treating those who had been affected. According to the minister, the government had also established a major addiction treatment centre in Hega, Dodoma to help peddlers who are committed to quit the business. She added that the government had issued a directive to the managements of all referral hospitals countrywide to ensure that they have special windows for giving methadone to drug addicts. “After treating them, we want the reformed persons to engage in economic activities so that they may not be lured to return to drug abuse…we have a programme in the Prime Minister’s Office which seeks to provide skills to various people, including those who have decided to quit drugs,’’ said Ms Mhagama. This means that the government of the people, for the people and by the people is making a great achievement in making the society (nationals) realise that such drugs are not used in their midst, but instead sunned and possibly all are saying no to their peddle and use.