AFTER quitting politics eight years ago, a prominent businessman, Mr Rostam Aziz, has also been playing low profile in the country’s investment playground. But yesterday, the businessman explained why he had now decided to reinvest in the country after all those years. He was speaking in Dar es Salaam at an event where President John Magufuli launched a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) depot belonging to Taifa Gas Limited. Mr Aziz is the chairman of the board of directors of the Taifa Gas Ltd. The depot, located near Nyerere Bridge at Kigamboni, is the largest in East and Sub- Saharan Africa, with a capacity of storing 7650 metric tonnes,followed by one in South Africa with a 5200 metric tonnes capacity. The 150-billion-investment facility is for receiving and storing the LPG for industrial and domestic uses within Tanzania, other East African countries as well as beyond the region. “Your strong stance on fighting irregularities in businesses and investments has made us come back to invest in Tanzania,” Mr Aziz, who has also established investments in other countries, told President Magufuli. He said some people misinterpreted President Magufuli’s efforts in pinning down dishonest investors, saying he was against the investors. “What I have noted is that what President Magufuli has been doing is to create a fair playing ground in investment...something which should inspire genuine investors who operate by conforming to country’s laws and regulations, to come over and invest,” he stressed. “We have every reason to thank you for building a strong basis for a fair playground in investment within just three years,” Mr Aziz remarked. He promised the President that Taifa Gas Ltd would inject a total investment of 500bn/- within the next three years. In Tanzania, the billionaire is known best for his huge stake in Vodacom Tanzania and in Caspian that carried out construction works for gold and other mines. He also has interests in several companies, including at Dar es Salaam Port and the media. President Magufuli said Mr Aziz also promised him that he would set up a tannery in Morogoro Region in two months’ time. “I will come personally to officially open it. This country has a large number of livestock; still leather factories import leather. This is an opportunity for investors to invest,” the President said. Dr Magufuli asked Mr Aziz to encourage his colleagues to invest in the country. “You, Rostam, have heartened me. I need investors like you who act. Bring other investors, I will be glad if you bring ten or twenty investors,” he said. Meanwhile, the President expressed disgust over the Dege Eco Village construction project in Kigamboni District in Dar es Salaam. The project under PPP system is a joint venture between National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and Azimio Housing Estate Limited. The project covers 300 acres. It comprises 7460 apartments for selling. The President said the project was fraudulent and a white elephant, directing the NSSF and responsible ministries to come up with alternative uses of the buildings since lots of public funds were spent on it.