POLICE Detective, Corporal Yohana Mwinula (35), told the High Court that the police force respect human rights and do not torture suspects. Cpl Mwinula, who testified as Public Witness (PW) 18, told Judge Lameck Mlacha who was presiding over a case that he conducted investigations and later recorded a cautioned statement made voluntarily by the third accused, Ngesela Keya Ismail (25), facing a case for the murder of four people. He told the Court that investigations revealed that four people were killed on a single night on November 1, 2015, while Ismail was responsible for covering the bodies with banana leaves. Police Detective Sergeant, Bulenganiju Mashiku, on the other hand, told the Court that the third accused, Ismail, forged a bus ticket dated November 25, 2015. Sgt Mashiku, who testified as Public Witness (PW) 15, told Judge Mlacha that he conducted investigations at Falcon Bus Services in Bukoba and Dar es Salaam booking offices. He told the Court that investigations revealed that the company issued three books with serial numbers 343201-343600; 343601-344000 and 344001- 344400 in 2017. Ngesela presented his alibi, claiming that he travelled from Bukoba to Dar es Salaam on November 25, 2015 using a ticket with serial no 344226 which he claimed was issued by Falcon Bus Company. He told the court that he was arrested on November 21, 2015 and was locked up at a special cell at Kashura police rest house, some three kilometers from Bukoba town until December 2, 2015 when he was taken before a justice of the peace at Kassambya, in Missenyi District. He narrated that he was tortured into making a statement at Kassambya Primary Court but he resisted and was later taken to Kyamunene forest in Bukoba Rural district where he was forced to sign several documents at gunpoint. A government chemist, Mr Fidelis Segumba (40), told the High Court that he conducted DNA tests on several exhibits which he received from the Kagera Regional Crimes’ Officer (RCO), and found blood stains that matched those of the accused persons who are facing a murder charge offence. Mr Segumba, who testified as PW 9, also tendered as exhibit a Maasai sword and two machetes, which the prosecution claimed were used in the mysterious killings of more than 20 people. victims had their throats cut, which caused panic among Kagera residents, and the killings were linked to superstitious beliefs. Three prisoners who are currently serving life imprisonment for burning a Roman Catholic church at Kanazi, in Bukoba Rural district are facing a murder Case No 66/2017 for the murder of four people. The convicts were identified as Aliyu Dauda Hassan (36) from Kemondo, in Bukoba Rural district, Rashid Mzee Athuman (29), and Ngesela Keya Ismail (24), both from Rwamishenye ward, in Bukoba Municipality. Mr John Kessy, the former OC CID for Bukoba, on the other hand, told the court that on November 1, 2015, four people, three males and a female, were murdered in one night. He told the court that at around 11.30 pm, he received a phone call and immediately rushed to Ekigoma Hamlet in Katoma Ward, about 15 kilometers from Bukoba town, and found two bodies of a male and a female lying in a pool of blood. According to Mr Kessy, who testified as PW 10, as detectives were examining the bodies, he received another call and rushed to the nearby Akilembo Hamlet, where he found two more bodies. He identified the deceased as Kaijage John, Anastela Paschal, Emmanuel Joseph and Evodius Aloys, all residents of Katoma Ward, in Bukoba Rural District. The prosecution side led by Principal State Attorney, Hashim Ngole assisted by Senior State Attorney Mlekano and Chema Maswi has closed its case. The defense team, on the hand, was led by Advocates Mathias Rweyemamu (for all three accused), Zedy Ally ( first accused), Dastan Mtagahywa (second accused) and Brighton Mugisha (third accused).