THE Institute of Judicial Administration (IJA) is now authorized to offer Certificate course to Court Brokers and Auctioneers in the country in line with the latter’s work challenges in their industry. That was revealed over the weekend by IJA Registrar, Mr Bollen Mwaipopo in an interview with the ‘Daily News’ here further saying that they are also offering the course after the government’s circular that all Court Brokers and Auctioneers to have a certificate to allow them operate in the legal sector. He said that the government directed the party to go for the training to eliminate misunderstanding and damage caused by them as they implement Court’s order professionally. “The course is to ensure that all court brokers are accredited after going through the special training to acquire knowledge in legal aspects as they implement their duties” pointed out the Registrar. He further said that since the issuance of the circular last year, court brokers as pillars of the court have cooperated to have the certificate, failure to which they would be disqualified as court partners in business. Mr Mwaipopo said that the training imparted them with legal issues and other capacity building skills to iron out misunderstanding in the public, something that used to be there in the past. “IJA has started offering the capacity training to court brokers, since it was commissioned by the government last year, so far we have trained three intakes and we will keep on running the course as it is the rule that all operators must undergo such training,” stressed Mr Mwaipopo. Speaking during the first National Council for Technical Education (NACTE) exhibition at the Jamhuri Stadium here, Mr Mwaipopo said that only those who have attended such training and mandated should now make their adverts. The Registrar noted, “the government circular was facilitated by the fact that it came to court realization that most of the court brokers were operating without legal knowledge knowhow, thus a need for such training, so that they operate according to the rules and procedures to get away with legal wrangles and public complaints.” He further said that they are key stakeholders in the judicial system in the implementation and effecting a number of court orders, hence, they must impart proper training to those in need.