IT came as highly motivating news, which in real meaning demands seriousness, when the confirmation came that four teams will represent Tanzania in the 2019/2020 CAF level club competitions. We compliment Simba, whose qualification to the quarter finals of the CAF Champions league earned Tanzania 15 points, which added up to three points garnered by Young Africans who reached the group stage of CAF Confederation Cup in the previous season, to make total points earned by Tanzania to 18. We as Tanzania, have benefited from the five year CAF rule, as the country is now ranked 10th among 12 countries that are allowed to enter four teams. Simba, who are the Mainland champions and second placed Yanga will compete in the Champions League, while Azam FC, who won the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), and KMC, who finished fourth in the top flight league, will be the country’s envoys in Confederation Cup. The rare chance to the four clubs will be meaningless without commitment, determination and visionary planning, hence we urge all clubs do everything in their capacities to excel at the two continental top club championships. Our teams must recruit top quality players who can help the teams achieve their goals, or else the country will be reduced to a two-team slot in the 2020-21 season. With the four-team song still sweet to the football fraternity, we would also warn clubs to be very careful when recruiting top quality players, especially those from outside Tanzania, as experience shows that some of them are not better than local players. With the registration transfer window for clubs already opened. We would advise Kinondoni Municipal Council (KCM), to double their efforts as they are completely new to the continental level tournament compared to Simba, Yanga and Azam. The teams should conduct registration faster but carefully, as TFF said the regulatory deadline for it to submit the engagement of clubs to compete in the inter-club tournaments is June 30th this year. We end by wishing all four teams luck in their preparation and participation of both CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup. Simba did it in 2018/19, season they can do it again this season.