MINISTER of State in the President’s Office (Good Governance and Public Service Management) George Mkuchika has commended the University of Dodoma (Udom) for a role it plays in fighting against  corruption. Addressing Udom students, the academic staff and guests at Udom Campus on Tuesday evening, the minister said Udom students should maintain the fight against corruption even after graduating from the university. “I encourage Udom students to continue fighting against corruption even after graduating from the university and become good ambassadors in the war on corruption in society,” said the minister, while delivering his opening speech during a public lecture on corruption. The event, which was jointly organised by Udom and Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), saw the formation of a Udom integrity committee to be chaired by Udom students’ organisation against corruption (Udosoac) patron, Dr Ombeni Msuya. According to Udom Vice-Chancellor, Prof Faustine Bee, the integrity committee draws one member from each of Udom’s seven colleges and will serve as a vehicle to address issues pertaining to corruption at Udom Campus. “The Udom integrity committee will facilitate the war on corruption at our campus,” said Prof Bee. On Udosoac, Prof Bee said the organisation had become an ideal platform that encouraged students to fight against corruption at Udom Campus, noting that the organisation had about 2,000 members. PCCB Director General Diwani Athumani said the formation of Udom integrity committee had demonstrated its management was determined to fight against any kind of corruption at the campus. “This demonstrates that Udom is determined to fight against any kind of corruption at the campus. I commend Udom for its commitment to fighting against corruption,” said the PCCB director general. Dodoma District Commissioner Patrobas Katambi, who represented Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, said corruption had tremendously decreased in the country. He said previously most of public industries and corporations had stopped operating due to corruption, saying a number of steps undertaken by the government had revived the industries.