PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday asked Tanzanians to remain calm following a Kenyan politician’s xenophobic remarks on the safety of Tanzanians who live in Kenya. The remarks relayed via a video clip were reportedly associated with Starehe Constituency lawmaker, Mr Charles Njagua Kanyi who is popularly known as Jaguar. The video went viral on Tuesday in which the politician and singer is heard promoting “xenophobic” attacks against foreigners working and doing business in his country. “We are not talking about six Chinese nationals. We are talking of hundreds of foreigners who work here (Kenya). I give the government 24 hours to evict these foreigners lest I, being a representative of this area, go into their shops, beat them and send them all the way to the airport,” he says. He said he would not want to see foreigners grabbing Kenyans’ jobs and business opportunities. “…Kenyans must conduct their businesses without competing with people from other countries. Pakistanis are dominating the sale of vehicles in Nairobi….Tanzanians and Ugandans are dominating in our markets. We say enough is enough. If they are not sent home within 24 hours, we will pick and beat them and we do not fear anybody,” he said. Yesterday, Premier Majaliwa told the Parliament that the government immediately summoned the Ambassador of Kenya to Tanzania after learning of the xenophobic remarks video. He said the remarks were his own and should not be associated with the government of Kenya in anyway. Mr Majaliwa added that the Tanzanian Ambassador to Kenya had also been instructed to make a close follow up on the matter with the Kenyan government. He added that ministers from East African countries who are currently attending East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) have condemned the statement by the Kenyan politician. He said the government of Kenya has promised to deal with the matter. “We all understand that Kenyans and Tanzanians are friends, we should therefore remain calm as the government is sorting this matter out,” he said.