THE government has been advised to invest in soft skills development which will facilitate new ways of expanding the tax base to finance the tabled budget towards industrialization. Soft skills simply mean personal attributes that enable someone to interact effectively and harmoniously with other people. Speaking during a breakfast debate organized by Ernst and Y oung (EY), consulting firm to discuss on the government budget tabled on Thursday before Parliament in Dodoma. The stakeholders recommended on improvement on ways of tax collection to expand voluntary tax compliance and expand tax base. Professor, Honest Ngowi from Mzumbe University advised that the government through Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), needs to improve customer service among its staff and embrace soft skills along hard ones to collect from the current tax base and new incoming sectors of the economy. “TRA needs more capacity to combat tax evasion, skills for taxing the booming extractive sector specifically in oil and gas and the digital economy, and improving ways of monitoring and evaluating daily tax collecting trends” said the economist. He added that the country’s taxman needs to improve their soft skills which will help them change the trend of taxing more towards taxing better, which will add impetus in voluntary tax compliance amongst tax payers in the country. To make the government earn even further, Prof. Ngowi went ahead and advised TRA to spearhead the formalization of the informal sectors of fishing and agriculture which employs a big chunk of the country’s population “Agro processing must be strengthened in order to change the current trend of exporting raw farm produces like maize, to processed Tanzanian quality branded flour, all these need to go hand in hand with enhancing soft skills which will promote creativity, team work and hard work as it increases tax base” he insisted. On his part, EY ’s Country Managing Partner, Joseph Sheffu said that the tabled budget reflects development while addressing the challenges faced by the country’s poor towards the middle economy by opening opportunities for them to grab through promotion of the private sector. “Bigger infrastructures are being constructed which will facilitate farming and fishing by simplifying processing and movement of their goods to the market.” A CRDB banker, Mr Isaac Shao said that in the tabled budget proposal, the government has proved its intention of promoting growth by being friendly to the private sector. “Banning closure of businesses means the government wants to see people working, earning and producing. This does not only benefit the poor Tanzanian but the large business chain which goes to the banks and owners of business premises who earn money through rents.