MEMBERS of Parliament yesterday called on the government to fully explore new tax avenues, such as emerging financial markets, modern tourism, sport and entertainment and ICT development, in order to do away with traditional revenue base. Debating the national budget estimates, the legislators also recommended for huge investments in productive sectors such as agriculture, education, manufacturing and boost exports in order to offset trade deficit. They expressed optimism that Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) could collect up to 1.7tri/- (from the current 1.3tri/-) if all avenues were exhausted. Contributing to the esti-mates, Dr Diodorous Kamala (pictured) (Nkenge-CCM) advised the government to borrow through Euro Bond instead of the traditional financial markets, which had not helped the government much. “Borrowing through Euro bond has many benefits; firstly you get more forex and therefore offset trade deficit gap; interest is only 3-8 percent which is lower than in other markets; and enjoyment of long repayment period of between 12-15 years. “This market is viable for current flag ship projects such Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and Stiegler’s (Rufiji hydro plant) project,” argued Dr Kamala, a professional economist and former Ambassador of Tanzania to Belgium. According to him, various reports have ranked Tanzania’s creditworthiness high among Sub Saharan countries, therefore calling on the government to explore such opportunity to the fullest. On her side, Ms Esther Matiko (Tarime Urban- Chadema) stated that traditional revenue avenues had already been exhausted and it was high time the government explored new avenues. “For instance, we are not doing enough in tourism; currently worldwide, beach tourism is toppling the world. There are also cultural tourism and cruising. “We can introduce cruising along our major infrastructure such as SGR, Rapid Bus project, Stiegler’s Gorge. I believe tourism is an untapped resource” she noted. Mr Juma Nkamia (Chemba- CCM) advised the government to use sport and entertainment as a major source, citing Spain, where soccer is among the biggest income earners for the government. “We are witnessing professional footballers registered averagely at 80m/- plus 15,000 US dollars and many more bonuses which are not taxed. We should bring more professionals and tax them accordingly instead of restricting their number,” commented Mr Mkamia, former Deputy Minister for Information and Sports. Both Mr Rashid Akbar (Newala Rural-CCM) and Mr Maftah Nachuma (Mtwara Rural-CCM) said the gas economy had not been used well to boost revenue. “We have not executed Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) for years now; the benefits of this project are immense. Effective and efficient use of gas economy could have served the country’s economy significantly,” stated Mr Nachuma. Receiving applauses across the debating chamber, former Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr Charles Mwijage, said that the proposed blueprint was a panacea for all challenges facing trade, industry and investments in the country. He, however, insisted that the implementation of the document must be “salvation” from above (the President himself) as it was done by President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and Prime Minister Modi of India. Mr Mwijage was optimistic that through the brave implementation of the ‘bitter’ pill (The blueprint), which involves full involvement of the private sector, TRA can even surpass the target of collecting over 1.7tri/ per month. Almost all contributors in yesterday’s debate were upbeat that the government could collect more revenues if all avenues were exhausted.