Minerals smugglers must think twice before they attempt to take precious stones outside of the country as law enforcers in the country will continue cracking down on them. Mineral Minister Dotto Biteko, Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga and Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, warned this in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the handing over of over 9bn/- confiscated minerals and hard cash from smugglers to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Mganga Biswalo, who presided at the event told the ministers, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and other government officials, who attended the event that the minerals and hard cash handed over were confiscated between 2017 and 2018. The list of confiscated minerals includes 76 tonnes of coloured gemstones and Tanzanite worth $2,638,349.95 and 2,849 carats ($888,409,000). There is also hard cash which includes currencies from 15 different nationalities worth 1,023,608,515.12/-. There are also 888 grammes of Tanzanite worth over $3,197 confiscated by courts in Arusha Region for similar purposes, but were yet to be handed over to the responsible ministry. Mr Mganga noted that the confiscation exercise resulted from an asset recovery initiative implemented in the country in accordance with the law. He pointed out that their task as law enforcers was to ensure natural resources found in the country benefitted all Tanzanians and did not end up in the hands of the unscrupulous minority. Mr Biteko maintained that the government's position was to ensure the mining sector flourished and was able to benefit all Tanzanians. According to him, much as President John Magufuli fought hard to ensure nuisance taxes, bureaucracy and lack of markets are no longer issues of concern. He says it seems some people have not understood the President and that is why they continue with illegal dealings. He called upon miners and mineral traders to change as time had also changed, as he cautioned people damaging the good image of Tanzania outside the country through fraudulent dealings to immediately stop. For his part, Dr Mpango recommended that officials, who had facilitated the confiscation exercise to be recognised for the work welldone, directing his Permanent Secretary to work on that. Dr Mpango commended the DDP’s office, the Ministry of Home Affairs and other law enforcers, which had made it possible for the recovery of the minerals and other assets. In particular the minister recognised State Attorney Jacquline Nyantori, who helped in the recovery of 325kg of gold in Mwanza Region. “I assure you that the minerals and money received today are in good hands and will be used for a good course to improve the lives of people in the country. “If we are able to protect our resources and use them constructively, there will not be a need to borrow funds from others,” he said. Receiving the minerals and cash money, the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Dotto James, who is the custodian of all government assets, pointed out that all confiscated assets would go to the government coffers as per the law. “The government can determine its uses, the resources could be used for the construction of classrooms, health facilities or support the implementation of any other projects,” said Mr James. He noted that allowing the resources to be smuggled was depriving the Tanzanians of right to enjoy access to basic rights. The Ps noted further that gold was part of any country’s foreign reserve in the world, therefore, the country was going to add some quantity to its reserves. Dr Mahiga pointed out that the amount of gold and other mineral resources the country possessed justified Tanzania’s wealth. “We should not agree to be called poor with such abundant resources that will last for the next 100 years and other minerals are yet to be discovered in Tanzania. Let’s not rest and leave our minerals to be easily stolen. We should rather educate the youth about the protection of these rare resources,” he noted.