THE national football team Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta didn’t comment on reporters’ advice to bring global level stars in future SamaKiba charity matches. Samatta artfully dodged the suggestion of the media officials to bring here Liverpool players such as Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane in the next year SamaKiba Charity after the successful end of this year’s event. Samatta said, however, the objective of the charity match which was played at the National Stadium on Sunday was fulfilled. The game brought together renowned football stars and artistes in the country who respectively formed team Samatta and Team Kiba for the sake of getting funds to support various community activities through their SamaKiba Foundation. However, after the end of normal period of play, it was team Samatta which emerged the winners after a 6-3 victory over Team Kiba. Dar es Salaam football fans flocked at the venue in their big numbers to watch the big match which came at the best time as the league season is over. It was also an opportunity for them to see live most of the players who will fly high the country's flag in Egypt during the upcoming Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals who used the encounter as a warm up for the biggest continental football contest. Speaking after the entertaining match, Samatta said he was happy to see that the target for organising the game was reached. "As you know, the main purpose of doing this is to raise money to boost numerous community activities like buying desks to be disbursed to schools so that children learn in comfortable environment," he said. Adding, Samatta lauded the fans who embraced the match live at the stadium saying the turnout was very promising as compared with the last year's edition and encouraged them to triple the number next year. He also said his Samatta side had slight changes on the day but most of the players he used last year were the same he featured during the hot clash. On the other hand, his compatriot Ali Kiba said the results were not a big thing but meeting the target of the match was the pleasing factor. "Yes, my team has lost but this is just a charity match which is played to entertain people but most importantly, to raise money to be channelled in various community projects," he said. Furthermore, the Aje hit maker congratulated team Samatta for the victory but vowed to reverse the negative results for his team next year. "I am sure that next time, the match will end in our favour," he said. Similarly, his young brother Abdul Kiba who missed two penalties on the day said they will come back strongly next year. "I think today I was not lucky since I missed chances to score two spot kicks. Usually, penalties have no expert and anybody can miss no matter how good you are on the pitch," he said. He also disclosed that he can play for any team which can show interest to sign him since he trains a lot every day and he is fit. Some of the Taifa Stars players who played on the day and are in the squad readying for the Egypt AFCON mission are Mbwana Samatta, Simon Msuva, Shiza Kichuya, Ibrahim Ajib, Feisal Salum, Aggrey Morris, Abdul Banda, Kelvin John and Aishi Manula among others.