LIVESTOCK and Fisheries Minister, Luhaga Mpina has expressed concern over poor performance by the Tanzania dairy industry despite the number of livestock in the country. Speaking on Milk Promotion Week on Monday, the minister took issue with the industry’s sluggish growth, which he attributed to poor management. “The production and processing of dairy products is still low due to lack of morale and seriousness exhibited by those overseeing the industry,” he said. According to the minister, the country has in the recent past recorded a low rate of processing dairy products compared to neighbouring countries. Despite producing 2.7 billion litres of milk every year, Tanzania processed only 70 million litres compared to Kenya, which preserved 803 million litres for processing. Because of this, the minister tasked the Tanzania Dairy Board (TDB) and milk industries to ensure they increased processing from 70 million litres to 210 million litres by next year. Mr Mpina also talked tough on industries that defrauded local producers. “I’m aware that local producers are made to sell their products at only 540/- per litres, while the same product retails at between 1,200/- and 1,500/- in the market,” he noted. Despite the setbacks, the dairy industry still registered some successes, according to the minister. Such strides include an increase in bull semen demand, which saw the sale of bulls’ reproductive fluids (semen) going up to 350m/- from 150m/- registered last financial year. The industry also witnessed an increase in milk production from 2.4billion litres last year to 2.7billion litres this year. The government also focuses more on the industry by improving services at the National Artificial Insemination Centre (NAIC) in Usariver, Arusha and the centre, which uses modern technologies in multiple ovulation and embryo transfer in Mpwapwa, Dodoma. Despite having more than 30.5million herds of cattle very few Tanzanians drink milk and this is partly due to lack of public awareness on the health benefits that come with gulping down a glass of milk. Tanzanians ranks third in the region in milk drinking, with per capita consumption of 47 litres per person a year.