PRESIDENT John Magufuli has consoled Tanzanians after their team’s Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals opener loss to Senegal, saying the Taifa Stars worked to minimize the loss as they faced the African giants. President Magufuli made this remarks yesterday at Vijibweni in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam before the official opening of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) plant. “Our team conceded just two goals against the top ranked football giants; Senegal, whose squad is made up of world class players. They (Senegal) are number one in Africa,” he said. Magufuli spoke on the team’s performance shortly before allowing the Dar es Salaam regional commissioner, Paul Makonda to travel to Egypt to boost the morale of the players in their second AFCON match against Kenya Harambee Stars tomorrow. “Give the players my greetings tell them to work hard and win against the Kenyans since their victory is ours and so will be the loss,” said JPM. While Senegal are placed top in Africa and 22nd in the world, Tanzania is ranked 36th in Africa and 131st in the world, according to the latest FIFA rankings released on June 14 this year. Uganda are placed on number 16 in Africa and managed to upset DR Congo, who occupies on 5th slot as far as the recent ranking is concerned. Moreover, 23rd placed Kenya lost to Algeria who are ranked 12th in the continent. This reveals that the next match involving Kenya and Tanzania will be a tough tie. Burundi are just one place behind Tanzania at 37th and lost to Nigeria who lately sits comfortably at the 3rd position on the ladder. Meanwhile, Zena Chande reports in Cairo that Taifa Stars versatile defender Erasto Nyoni will be fit to face Kenya Harambee tomorrow. The defender as well defended Coach Emmanuel Amunike for not fielding him in their AFCON opener saying he was not fit to face Senegal at June 30 Stadium on Sunday. Stars lost 2-0 to might Senegal in the match clearly needed the service of the experienced defender of Nyoni caliber. Speaking after the match, Nyoni said he was not hundred per cent fit for the opener that’s why coach Amunike opted to rest him. However, Nyoni said he will be back to normal when Taifa Stars play Kenya at the same venue on Thursday. Nyoni who is in Cairo with Taifa Stars failed to play against Senegal due to injury, which the player said it was not too serious to miss all AFCON matches. “There was a minor foot injury and muscles. Now I am fit and I have started training to keep me fit for the match against Harambee Stars on Thursday,” said Nyoni, who plays for the Tanzanian champions Simba. Nyoni’s absence made the whole defence vulnerable to Senegalese attacks. His gap seemed to be irreplaceable, thus giving defender Kelvin Yondani and goalkeeper Aishi Manula and extra duty to clear frequent raids from world-class Senegalese strikers.