INACTIVITY, choice of food and life style in general has been attributed to the increase in cases of stroke among young adults. Experts in health matters now say that such factors cause hypertension and cardiovascular diseases among the young and middle aged people. They said that there is a sharp rise in cases of stroke in young adults aged between 18 and 45, according to a recent study conducted at the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (Muhas), Academic Medical Center (MAMC). The report showed that from 369 stroke patients admitted at Ruganzila ward from June 2018 last year to early this year, 123 were young adults, where the major course of the increase was high blood pressure. The report says that the steep increase is alarming as the disease was previously considered to be most common among elders of 50 years and above, adding that 80 percent of strokes that occur are preventable. The findings were revealed during the second day of the seventh Muhas Scientific Conference that has drawn over 500 participants, including scholars. Young scientists, academicians, development partners, policy makers, and other stakeholders from within and outside the country who have come together to discuss, share and exchange scientific knowledge that will eventually improve human health practices and foster the nation’s socio-economic development. Elaborating on the findings, Internal Medicine Doctor Sarah Matuja said that over 1400 patients were admitted from June 2018 to January 2019, where 26 percent, approximately 369 were first time stroke patients, saying this is where the focus was. Dr Matuja explained that a study done by America Heart Association exposed that in 2003 to 2004, 0.0 percent stroke patients were recorded between the age of 18 to 34, while in 2011 to 2012, 8.4 percent were recorded, indicating a rise of 27 percent. Meanwhile in the same years, the age of 55 to 64 has seen a rise of only 0.8 percent. “Such studies show that young adults are now having strokes more frequently, and this is mainly attributed to the change in life style,” she said. She said that the major cause of stroke at such an early age is high blood pressure, adding that most of the young patients do not even know that they have the disease, unlike elders who already know that they are most likely to have pressure and conduct screening often with regular medicine intake. “This is called secondary hypertension, because it is not common for adult youth to have pressure. And this hypertension mostly implies among other reasons that the person is having problems in the liver, genetics or endocrines,” she noted. She mentioned that other things that contributed to high risk of adult youth stroke include HIV AIDs infection, the use of illicit drugs and hormonal contraception. She further explained that because of visiting the hospital late, they end up with severe disease by the time they get to the hospital. “About 49.1 percent, which is about 60 adult youth patients, died after 30 days of being diagnosed with stroke, something that is related to severe disease because most visit the hospital on the second to sixth day of the symptoms,” she said. From the study, women had the highest frequency, but most likely because women have the tendency to frequently visit the hospitals; which is different from other studies that show that men are at a higher risk of getting stroke. She urged the youth to often visit hospitals for pressure screening because it is attributed to be the major contribution factor to causing stroke at a very young age. Dr Matuja further urged the youth to do exercise activities that will reduce the risk, and change the sedentary life style as it is also a challenge that increases the risk. She further advised those who are already diagnosed with stroke to continue visiting the clinic as required and attend physiotherapy so that they can get treatment and regain their health. “After this study, we plan to continue with it by monitoring our patients for one year and see what more information we can acquire that will help them,” she stated.