TAIFA Stars head coach Emmanuel Amunike has cast the blame to players’ nervousness for Tanzania’s 2-0 loss to Senegal at June 30 Stadium in Cairo on Sunday. Amunike whose side only returned to AFCON after a 39 year absence defended for long spells of the game and often lost possession of the ball easily to the opposition who were missing star player Sadio Mane because of suspension. The former Nigeria and Barcelona forward told the media in Cairo moments after the game that his side was just nervous and inexperience cost them dearly. “In this kind of tournament, experience matters a lot. Some of the players we have were nervous and the nervousness could show. We did a lot of mistakes especially in the first half. The Senegalese bossed the midfield. In football, you need a strong midfield to link up with the strikers to make the job much easy. Senegal is experienced, having played the World Cup as well. Majority of our players play in the Tanzanian league.”. Amunike however, has hope that Tanzania will perform well in the remaining two matches against Kenya and Algeria who faced off later on Sunday. “I know and believe that we can get better always, the strategy is about plan and this failed. We played against an experienced team. We are coming after 39 years. Amunike made a change towards the end of the first half; pulling off Feisal Salum Abdalla for Tenerife’s Farid Mussa Shah. Later in the second half, Saimon Msuva was rested for gangly forward Thomas Ulimwengu with 25 minutes left on the clock. With seven minutes to play, Frank Domayo replaced Yahya Abbas. Tanzania takes on Kenya in the famous East African derby on Thursday, 27th June 2019 at the same venue. In retrospect, Taifa Stars captain Mbwana Samatta is confident that Taifa Stars have learnt lessons from their defeat to Senegal in Sunday’s Africa Cup of Nations game. Keita Balde’s effort and an audacious strike from Krepin Diatta condemned Emmanuel Amunike’s men – who are making a return to the tournament after 39 years - to a 2-0 loss at the 30 June Stadium. The Teranga Lions dominated the game to ensure the Taifa Stars’ chances of scoring were limited and the Genk forward admitted the superiority of their opponents but believes their experience in the game will prepare them for future challenges. “It is a privilege to be here and I am happy we qualified. For me what is important is that we qualified for this competition,” he said. “We played against a very tough team today in our first game Senegal. It is not easy to beat them but when we meet again it will not be the same. “We have to start from here, maybe we can take this game as experience and when we come back again we will have more experience and do better. “They have a lot of quality players who know what to do with the ball. They dominated the game. It was tough for us. Most of the time they had the ball. They tried to create but when we have the ball we cannot keep it for a long time we give them the ball. So when you don’t have the ball and play against big team like Senegal it is always difficult. “They have experience, they know what they are doing in the pitch. Most of their players play for top teams in Europe. They play in the Champions League. We don’t have the experience and we are not playing in the top teams in Europe.” Samatta will hope to help his side bounce back from the defeat when they take on Kenya in their second Group C game on Thursday as Tanzania seek to reach the knockout stages of the tournament for the first time in their history.