…Global Fund gives support to intensify the fight in African countries ARUSHA-based East, Central and Southern Africa Health Community (ECSA-HC) has sealed an 11.4tri/- deal with the Global Fund for establishment of Tuberculosis Diagnosis Laboratories in the region. The funding aims at fighting the deadly disease, which remains a serious health concern in various African countries. The Global Fund has reportedly committed an extended support of 5.8 billion US dollars (over 11tri/) to strengthen capacity of National TB Reference laboratories (NTRLs) in East, Central and Southern Africa region. The Global Fund has through the ECSA-HC supported the fight against TB in 18 countries, including Tanzania, Botswana, Burundi, Eritrea, eSwatini, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia, South Sudan, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The ECSA-HC is the principal recipient and coordinates the entire project, which is spearheaded by Director General Professor Yoswa Dambisya (pictured) who revealed the multitrillion support during the just ended ‘Best Practices Forum’ for medical experts. Tanzania reportedly experiences acute shortage of staff in her health service sector, which so far is self-sufficient by just 48 per cent. Chief Medical Officer in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Prof Muhammad Kambi, addressing the just ended ECSA-HC meeting here, described the manpower shortage in the health sector as a cross-cutting problem. He said the shortage affects all African countries but its negative effects can easily be tamed through digital networking. “When fully informed, people in rural areas can jointly tackle majority of their health problems…and, we can educate them using the active and popular social media outlets,” he said. Dr Kambi cited Ituru Village in Mbeya region where residents have managed to eliminate cases of Post Natal and Pre-Natal deaths through joint efforts. The theme for the 12th Best Practices Forum held in Arusha was ‘Innovation and Accountability in Health towards achieving Universal Health Coverage.’ The theme will be addressed among others—efforts to improve adolescent and young people’s health; opportunities for achieving water and sanitation; health global target equity and access to eye healthcare in the region. Others were innovative approaches towards achieving food safety and improving quality of life; prioritising substance use and mental health challenges in ECSA region; tackling emerging and re-emerging health threats and regional one health approach to managing recurrent outbreaks. The meeting brought together senior officials from the ministries of health, health research institutions and heads of health training institutions from member states; diverse collaborating partners and experts from the region and beyond. Arusha-based ECSA-HC is an inter-governmental organisation, which was established to foster regional cooperation in addressing serious health problems. Its activities target to attain the highest possible standards of health for all people in the region. In pursuit of its mandate, ECSA-HC facilitates regional meetings—the Best Practices Forum (BPF) and Directors Joint Consultative Committee (DJCC) in Arusha, annually.