TAIFA Stars Head Coach, Emmanuel Amunike said playing against tough team like Egypt in warm-up game was a big test and ex perience to his sq uad, ahead of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations ( AFCON) finals. Egypt’s Pharaohs rested star Mohamed Salah as they defeated Taifa Stars 1-0 at Alexandria's Borg El-Arab Stadium on Thursday in the first of two warm-up matches before the June 21st tournament kick-off. The former Nigerian football legend, Amunike described the game against the Pharaohs as interesting and was pleased with the team’s performance, despite losing from a very good side and one of the continental experienced sides. “We played against a good and tough side but the good thing is that we were able to give them a tough challenge. What matters now is for us to go and look at our mistakes and see how we can correct them before our next game,” said Amunike. Stars skipper and Belgian topflight side KRC Genk striker, Mbwana Samatta, commended the display shown by his teammates. He also acknowledged that the game was a tough test for the team as they played one of best national side in the continental football. Samatta insisted that the game was a great experience and worthy test before the kickoff of the AFCON finals. “It was a good challenge for us as we played one of the best sides in the coming tournament and playing Egypt gave us the picture ahead of the group stage matches. It gave us chance to rectify our mistakes before the kickoff of the AFCON final,” said Samatta. Stars will play another friendly game against Zimbabwe’s Warriors tomorrow, before kicking off their Nations Cup campaign against Senegal at Cairo Stadium on June 23rd. Egypt needed a second-half goal from Ahmed Elmohamady to break down Taifa Stars in the two sides first of their two warm-up games for AFCON, which be staged from 21 June to 19 July in Egypt. The Aston Villa right-back, who helped his club earn promotion to the English Premier League last month, headed home four minutes past the hour mark to give Egypt an unconvincing win over Taifa Stars. Egypt Coach Javier Aguirre opted to rest Liverpool forward Mohamed Salah and Arsenal midfielder Mohamed Elneny, who joined up with the team later than their teammates because of their European commitments. And, the Mexican introduced some new faces, including Zamalek's central defender Mahmoud Alaa and Pyramids' holding midfielder Nabil Emad, however the Pharaohs were guilty of failing to take their chances in a first half they dominated. They mainly counted on sending numerous crosses from both flanks, a strategy that proved efficient in breaching the defence. Winger Amr Warda and lone striker Ahmed Ali both sent free headers over the bar when well-positioned to score while Stars' only chance fell to Simon Msuva, whose low shot from the edge of the area narrowly missed the target on 15th minute. Egypt left-back Ayman Ashraf created space for himself in the area in the 35th minute but opted to shoot with his weak right foot, with his effort smothered by keeper Aishi Manula. The hosts' best chance came on the stroke of halftime when a loose ball fell for Elmohamady, whose goal-bound shot was cleared off the line by a defender. Egypt piled on pressure in the early stages of the second half, with experienced playmaker Abdallah El-Said having an angled free-kick tipped over by Manula, who also pushed a Walid Soliman header onto the post. The breakthrough came on 64th minute, when substitute Ahmed Mansour, a versatile defender who plays for Pyramids, whipped in an inviting cross for the unmarked Elmohamady whose header found the top corner. Egypt eased off after taking the lead as Taifa Stars barely troubled them. However, the record seven-time African champions must up their game if they are to challenge for an eighth honor. Egypt Assistant Coach Hany Ramzy has described the Pharaohs’ encounter against Tanzania as an ‘average meeting’ but weighed some positives from the game. Egypt are set to take on Naby Keita’s Guinea in their final friendly test ahead of the 2019 AFCON tomorrow. “We will not fool ourselves, it was an average game where we managed to dominate possession but our performance varied between the two halves despite barely facing threats from the Tanzanian side,” Ramzy said. “The friendly was good in allowing us test more than one game plan. We started the game with 4-2-3-1 then we switched 4-3-3 and 3-4-3 in the second half. However, fatigue hit some of the players.” “Undoubtedly there were few negatives like the defensive performance which has to improve, as well as the wrong positioning of the midfield and losing the ball easily which caused some dangers on the break. We also had to take advantage of set-pieces in a better way and overall it was a good chance to try some of the reserve players, our shape will be different against Guinea,” he added.