TANZANIA Football Federation (TFF), has labelled the official visit by UEFA ASSIST team very successful as far as development of football is concerned. While in the country, the team conducted a number of activities aimed at uplifting the standard of football, working closely with the federation's Executive Committee. Elaborating further on the visit, TFF President, Wallace Karia said Tanzania has benefited much from the visit since it was very vital. "They have taught us many things, most importantly how to run the federation successfully and have shown interest to help us in our grassroots level projects which we are executing in various parts of the country," Karia said. Adding, Karia revealed that the UEFA team also cemented TFF cooperation with the Ireland Football Federation, which he had a fruitful meeting with them in Paris through which they agreed to exchange coaching programmes. "The exchange programmes will bear tangible fruits because a group of our coaches who will get a chance to go to Ireland will impart the knowledge to their colleagues when they return home," the TFF boss said. However, immediately after the visit, one of the UEFA officials Stewart Regan wrote on his Instagram page saying: "The UEFA ASSIST team have just returned from a productive visit to Tanzania where we conducted a leadership retreat with TFF Executive Committee." He added: "We succeeded to develop 5 short term operational objectives focusing on the areas of infrastructure, grassroots, youth development, league management, data governance and income generation." Regan further wrote: "We met some really enthusiastic people working hard to improve football in Tanzania. Well done to TFF President Wallace Karia and General Secretary, Wilfred Kidao for some input this week." Already, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe reiterated that a meeting was held with UEFA officials aimed at helping the federation on how to create the league table which gives all teams enough time to prepare. "Last season, the league fixture was not friendly to most teams, it was characterised with back to back matches within a short period of time. We sought their intervention so that next season, we should not experience the same things," Mwakyembe said during a fundraising event for Young Africans recently.