TANZANIA top professional golfers, Fadhil Nkya and Abdallah Yusufu are more than ready to test their skills against world class golfers when KCB Karen Masters tees off Thursday in Kenyan capital, Nairobi. The tournament sanctioned by Sunshine Tour draws a number of the best golfers from Africa and parts of Europe. Both Nkya and Yusufu are golfers from Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam. They will compete at the four days 72 hole competition that is scheduled to tee off at Karen Country Club, Nairobi. Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) Competition Secretary Enock Magile confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Nkya and Yusufu are the only Tanzanian envoys to this global level event. Magile, who is also the club’s Competition Secretary, said that both players are in good health. He said Nkya has left for Nairobi last Friday and Yusufu on Thursday for the tough mission. The maximum field consists of 156 golfers, including two Tanzanians, six Ugandans, while Malawi, Nigeria, Zambia and Namibia will have each two players in the race for the event’s cash prizes. The host Kenya show will field 32 professionals and five amateurs, four of whom were entered from the Kenya Golf Union’s Order of Merit. They are Samuel Njoroge from Kenya Railway Golf Club, Daniel Nduva of Nyali in Mombasa, Simon Njogu from the Great Rift Valley Golf Resort in Naivasha, and a junior entry is Matthew Wahome of Nyali Club. The fifth amateur, is Anthony Gacheru who is one of the invitees in this year’s tournament. On the local pros list, those entered include Justus Madoya and Simon Ngige, who were the only Kenyan players to make the cut in the European Tour’s Magical Kenya Open also held at Karen in March. There are also those who made cut in last year’s Masters while the rest qualified for the event from the just concluded KCB Road to Karen Masters’ series. The top 10 players on the list are invitees by the Sunshine Tour and hosts Karen. A number of players from outside South Africa which provides the bulky of players in the tour, were entered from the regional Order of Merit for the tournament which this year, offers a prize fund of 2.2 million rand (Sh15.6 million). Leading the field particularly for those coming from the Sunshine Tour Order of Merit, will be last year’s winner of the Karen Masters Michael Palmer. Other leading players entered include Daniel Van Tonder, a regular player not only in the Sunshine Tour but also in the European Challenge Tour. The event starts with the Pro-Am on Wednesday before the main event gets underway the next day. The Karen Masters is the second biggest event in terms of prize money in the Sunshine Tour after the Mopani Zambia Open whose prize money was 2.5 million Rand ( KSh17.5 million). Speaking from Karen yesterday Nkya said that they are safe and continue with practice to get familiar with competition course. “I feel more than ready; the course is tough, but very good. With intensive training and days of practice, here I only need to pray to do well,” he said.