STAKEHOLDERS from different sectors have commended efforts made by Shell Tanzania for promoting and pioneering environmental conservation and use of alternative energy as ways of mitigating effects of climate change in the country. Speaking shortly after a meeting organised by the company to discuss matters related to climate change and use of alternative energy, many stakeholders congratulated Shell Tanzania for being at the forefront to promote better use of the energy in question to protect the environment. Representative from the Vice President’s Office (Environment), Mr Joseph Qamara, said the government will continue to cooperate with all stakeholders on conservation matters to shun disasters emanating from climate change. “We recognise efforts by Shell Tanzania and other stakeholders in promoting environmental conservation by promoting tree planting and use of alternative sources of energy,” Mr Qamara said. The discussions also involved winners of a special contest of protagonist producers of renewable energy that was coordinated by the Vice President’s Office – division of environment, whose creativity aims at scaling up alternative use of cooking energies in Tanzania. Shell Tanzania awarded 300 m/- to the first winner, 200 m/- to the second winner and 100 /- to the third winner as part of morale booster in promoting renewable energy through a period of three years. The Managing Director of Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship Development (IMED), Dr Donath Olomi, also congratulated Shell Company, saying the discussion was of great benefit as it brought together all the key stakeholders who discussed the matters openly. Dr Olomi said government’s participation was important in ensuring Tanzanians use renewable energy instead of charcoal and firewood, a move that would help reduce environmental degradation caused by deforestation. On his part, Managing Director of Shell Tanzania, Mr Marc den Hartog, said there was need for Tanzanians to embrace changes and switch to alternative energy, saying that it was the only remedy for increased impact of environmental degradation which includes drought among others. “We (Shell Tanzania) will continue to collaborate with the government and other stakeholders in making sure that the environment is protected and arrest all the conditions that instigate climate change,” he said. He emphasized that climate change matters should be given special attention to ensure that all stakeholders come together to further the cause as a way of saving the country from its negative impacts.