MADINA Iddi has proved to everyone that is she deserves to be among top African golfers she was crowned the Kenya Ladies Open champion over the weekend. Madina target to hit treble was also achieved in the tournament officially known as Kenya Ladies Amateur Stroke Play Champions. She won it for the third time beating her tough Kenyan opponents at Limuru Golf & Country Club in Kenya. Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) golfer, Madina has added an important silverware in her cabinet by beating other top golfers from East African Region to defend well the title in the 54-hole even t. Playing under difficult condition in closing round on Sunday, Madina struggled to post 80 gross, but it was enough to give her a 7-shot win over her closest challengers. Madina started the event with a joint first round lead with Mercy Nyanchama when both returned 77 strokes each on Saturday. Though, the national team prosperity came stronger at the afternoon second round when hit 75 gross to lead with aggregate 232 strokes and retain the title she won last year. She told the 'Daily News' from Kenya after the final that it was not that easy, she went through a difficult situation from day one, and she was forced to change her usual caddy after the usual one was taken by her Kenyan rival, hence she played with a caddy who was not familiar to her. "I had to calm down nerves to start afresh. I steadied my hand and thanks God I returned 77 strokes in the first round, I overcome two double bogies during the round that could put me out of contention," she said. Adding, she said the second round was much better when she returned 75 strokes, but the closing round was not easy for all golfers as they had to play while raining heavily. “It was not easy playing at water soaked course, all clubs were wet, it was difficult to muster the game.. Still managed to finish at the top, eight strokes win is something I didn’t expect. Hosts opponents and Ugandan had fielded many quality players too,” she said. Kenyan top Josephine Ainely, who started with 80 and 79 gross in the first and second before closing with 80 gross, finished second overall behind Madina with 239 aggregate strokes. Nyanchama who penned 243 (77,83,83) finished third and her country-mate Joyce Wanjiru who carved 244 (81,79,84) finish fourth overall. Madina was seeking her third title at Kenya Ladies Open after she also won it in 2015.