A FEW days after the government started execution of the ban on the use of plastic bags, Tanzania based RSA Limited has innovated an environmental friendly tourist vehicles that will help in protecting the environment in the national parks. Briefing reporters on the new innovation during the Karibu-Kilifair Tourism Exhibition that is being held here, RSA Ltd Managing Director, Mr Manmohan Bhamra, said the new innovation involves introduction of a new tourist vehicle introduced by the RSA Ltd. The Moshi based RSA Ltd has invested in manufacturing and assembly of steel components for the safari vehicle bodies in Tanzania . “The vehicles are fitted with aluminum clean and safe water tanks which will be used to store mineral water for the use by tourists while visiting national parks instead of carrying bottled water,” he said. Explaining further on the innovation, Mr Bhamra said the tourists will each be provided with special reusable bottles which they will use to dispense water from the fitted tanks whenever they were in need of water. “This will prevent them from the necessity of carrying many bottles when they are on their safaris. Statistics show that a man should drink at least three liters of water every day. This means every tourist will have to carry six half liter bottles of water a day, meaning 48 bottles in a regular eight passenger vehicle must be thrown out in one day, which adds to 480 bottles for 10 vehicles a day, which translates to 2,400 bottles on a regular fiveday tour,” he said. He added that the client (tourist), will have the reusable bottle which he or she will keep as a souvenir to take back home, because the bottles will have the name of the touring company they will be using, a strategy which will also be used to market the tour company and Tanzania’s tourism sector in general. On his part, the Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Mr Constantine Kanyasu hailed RSA Ltd for introducing the water dispensing tourist vehicles, which he said was a great impetus in the government’s’ efforts meant to protect the environment. “The RSA innovation is timely, it has come on a time when the government effort to protect the environment is in full swing, which was spiced up by the banning of the use of plastic bags recently, they need to be supported,” he said. The minister added that environmental protection in the national parks has been highlighted as one of the government’s main agendas, and that RSA Ltd.’s innovation will intensify the campaign. “Statistics show that during the high season, we get more than 700 tourist vehicles entering our national parks, this means if this innovation is given big support, we will be able to prevent the littering of 336,000 bottles in our national parks; this is a clear example which shows that this innovation is a big milestone as far as the environment protection campaigns in our country are concerned”, he said.