THE city of Arusha is on high alert following reports of the presence of four Dengue fever cases in the region. The patients are said to have travelled between Arusha and Dar es Salaam recently, where they might have contracted the deadly disease that is transmitted by Aedes aegypti mosquito that carries the virus. A statement availed to the media by the Arusha Municipal Council over the weekend stated that at least four patients had been diagnosed with the disease and are receiving treatment at undisclosed hospitals. “By June 8, 2018, four people were tested with Dengue fever and have since been undergoing treatment…the four had recently travelled between Arusha and Dar es Salaam,” read part of the statement. Meanwhile, the Municipal Council urged members of the public to be cautious of the disease which has been detected in Dar es Salaam and some parts of the Coastal Regions. The Municipal Council further appealed to Arusha residents to destroy mosquito breeding sites and dump water containers, citing them as buckets, dog watering pails and other containers that may collect and store water. Dengue is a human virus transmitted primarily by the mosquito Aedes Aegypti, which is commonly found around homes and workplaces. The transmission cycle for dengue is human-mosquitohuman. The World Mosquito Programme’s research has shown that when Wolbachia is introduced into the mosquito and it reduces the vector’s ability to transmit dengue between people as well as other Aedes aegypti borne diseases like Zika, Chikungunya and yellow fever. Despite the current efforts by the government to wipe all mosquitoes as well as put up special centres for treating the disease patients, the public is being advised to take precautionary measures, including clearing their environment to reduce mosquitoes inhabiting places in their respective localities. Mid last month, the government announced that patients will have to part ways with 15,000/- from the initial 20,000/- for diagnosis of the dengue fever in designated public hospitals after it had procured enough kits to diagnose the disease.