TANZANIA loves honouring its most famous citizens with streets named after them, and the Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta is no exception. This time the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Paul Makonda has ordered authorities in Temeke municipality to name one of its streets Samatta in honour of the national team skipper. Speaking with reporters in his office yesterday, Makonda said the decision was reached to honour Samatta, for his remarkable contribution in making Tanzanian sports prowess known all over the globe. Samatta, who has brilliant career with the Belgian champs KRC Genk, is currently the biggest Tanzanian football player at the world class level and one of the top in Africa. “From what the nation reaps from Samatta success, we have decided to call one of the main streets of Temeke municipality Samatta as a means to recognize him and his efforts,” said the RC. Makonda was the chief guest during the SamaKiba Charity match at the national stadium. The charity match was jointly organised by Samatta and Bongo Flavor mega star, Ally Kiba to raise funds for the needy community. “Everyone knows what Samatta has done to this nation. We as regional authority we have honoured his efforts by giving him one of the broad streets in the municipality,” said Makonda. In that charity match Team Samatta defeated Team Kiba 6-3. It was the team’s second victory as last year Team Samatta won 4-2 in the match held at the same venue. Born December 23, 1992, Mbwana Ally Samatta is a Tanzanian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Belgian side Genk and captain for the Tanzania national football team. Samatta began his career as a youth player for Tanzanian club African Lyon in 2008. He turned professional in 2010 with Simba Sports Club, where he played for only half of the season before moving to TP Mazembe, spending a total of five years with them, initially becoming a first-team regular. He was named the 2015 African based Player of the Year, and finished the season as the top goalscorer of the CAF Champions League as he helped TP Mazembe to win the title. In January 2016, Samatta signed for Belgian side KRC Genk, helping them to qualify for Europa League and win the Belgian Jupiler League in 2019. He also finished the season as the top goalscorer for the Belgian Jupiler League. Also he won the Ebony Shoe award in Belgium for his outstanding season with Genk.