THE prosecution yesterday asked for more time to complete investigations into trial of Taxi Driver, Mousa Hamis Twaleb, who is charged with three counts, including kidnapping a Tanzanian billionaire and industrialist, Mohamed Dewji, alias MO. State Attorney Dasys Makakala told Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam that they were still looking for more evidence before they start to prosecute the matter. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the trial to June 25, 2019. The prosecution alleges that on diverse dates between May 1 and October 10, 2018 at various places within the City of Dar es Salaam within United Republic of Tanzania and Johannesburg in the Republic of South Africa, knowingly, the accused furnished assistance in the conduct of affairs of the criminal racket. It is alleged by the prosecution that the accused had the intent of either to reap profit or other benefit from such act. The court heard that on October 11, 2018 at Colosseum Hotel areas within Kinondoni Municipality, jointly and together with other people not in court, the accused kidnapped MO. The prosecution told the court that the accused committed such offence with intent to cause the prominent businessman to be secretly and wrongfully confined. Twaleb was charged with the offence of money laundering, which is alleged to have been committed on July 10, 2018 at Mbezi Beach area. It is alleged that the accused acquired 8m/-, while at the time of receipt he knew that the said money was proceed of a predicate offence of participating in an organized group and racketeering. The police are in records as announcing that MO, the 17th richest and youngest billionaire in Africa, was abducted by the unknown armed people as he attended fitness session at the Colosseum Hotel and Fitness Club in Dar es Salaam. Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Lazaro Mambosasa is quoted as saying that the abduction of the famous businessman was committed at around 5am. According to him, the abductors, two of them whites, arrived at the scene in a Toyota Surf vehicle. The police commander explained further that before escaping with the billionaire who served as Singida Urban MP on the ruling CCM ticket between 2005 and 2015, the kidnappers fired shots in the air. Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC), Paul Makonda is also quoted as saying that the 43-year old business mogul had no security guards and had personally driven to the gym. “And this was his normal practice because he was used to peace although he is rich enough to hire body guards,” he explains. About ten days later, MO, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), of Mohammed Enterprises Tanzania Limited (METL), a group company with several subsidiaries in beverages, edible oils, flour milling and textile manufacturing and soaps, among other commercial activities, was freed by the kidnappers. Dewji took to his Mo Dewji Foundation Twitter to confirm his release on October 20, 2019 saying, “I thank Allah that I have returned home safely. I thank all my fellow Tanzanians and everyone around the world for their prayers.” “I thank the authorities of Tanzania, including the Police Force for working for my safe return,” he added. The police are, once more, on record that the businessman was dumped at a field near the exclusive Gymkhana sports club and they found him there in a healthy physical condition. The police said they “suspect the abductors are South Africans because they were communicating in one of the vernacular from that country.” After dumping MO, the abductors unsuccessfully tried to burn the car unsuccessfully, where the police discovered an AK-47 assault rifle, two pistols and several rounds of ammunition stuffed in it.