THE Interfaith Standing Committee on Economic Justice and Integrity of Creation (ISCEJIC), has commended the government on the ban of plastic bag use, giving pointers on the sustainability and how the initiative can be effectively observed. A statement issued by the ISCEJIC Chairperson, Bishop Stephen Munga after its recent meeting deliberating on, among other issues, the government ban, states that the environmental pollution caused by plastic bags is massive; hence the control of plastic pollution calls for all stakeholders’ participation in raising awareness and making sure that the ban is sustainably observed. “The government should prepare regulations and legal framework in consultation with all relevant stakeholders to ensure a systematic implementation of the ban in the country,” pointed out Bishop Munga. He added that apart from having in place the legal instruments, the government needs to have structures and systems that will foresee the implementation of such laws and policies in a sustainable way. Stressing, he said “It is important to remember that communities’ empowerment and awareness creation are the best weapons to win this war.” He also urged companies to ensure they consider themselves as allies in this campaign, requesting them to go into green economy and come up with alternative products for community use. In the statement, he advised entrepreneurs to prepare and design alternative bags like paper flax, mats and clothes like “vikapu” which can be made in different innovative ways to be used by the community. “This can be a source of employment, income generator and environmentally friendly at the same time.” The statement also advised the civil society to raise awareness to the Tanzanian communities in understanding the importance of the ban, while mobilising and encouraging people to move towards the use of the alternative environmental friendly bags. “The civil society should contribute with different expertise that is needed by different stakeholders to ensure smooth implementation and realisation of the goal of this noble mission,” he stated. Emphasizing, “As an interfaith community, we are ready to work with the government and other stakeholders to offer our talents and support whenever needed. We also commit ourselves to in960150012initiatives that will be directed towards awareness creation as we believe that knowledge is power. A plastic free and environmental friendly Tanzania is possible.” The statement recognised that plastic, which was introduced in Africa a generation ago, has been reported to pollute both the waters and land at an alarming rate. It revealed that about 90 per cent of all trash floating on the water surfaces is believed to be emanating from plastics; and according to the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), half of all plastics produced are designed to be used just once and then discarded, resulting in mass amounts of chemically-laden debris landing in oceans and littering landscapes. According to UN estimates, of the 9 billion tonnes of plastics the world has produced; only 9 per cent have been recycled. And, according to EcoWatch, plastics affect all biological spectrum, including posing risks to human health and wildlife, he noted. For more than five years the ISCEJIC has been working tirelessly on issues of environment through its major campaign on climate change under the lubric “We have Faith”; among other things focusing on pollution made by extractives operations. “The work on environment preservation for us as religious leader’s points to a broader and greater advantage for global societies, and it is our commitment and call as stewards of creation. Hence, to advocate for the environmental preservation is a vital call for all religious leaders aiming at maintaining the integrity of creation as an intergenerational inheritance,” it stated. “We take this as a major step towards other actions towards a comprehensive action to make Tanzania an environmental friendly state,” he commented as he commended the government on its effort. Tanzania joins about 60 other countries in the world and 13 countries in Africa that have either banned or introduced a levy on plastic bags to control and eventually stop its use. In East Africa, Kenya, Rwanda and Zanzibar have introduced and are implementing a complete ban on use of plastic bags.