THERE are millions of children in Tanzania who are supposed to go to school, but because of poverty are not doing so. Studies conducted by government agencies and nongovernmental organisations attribute school dropouts in different parts of the country to poverty. Faced with poverty, some parents desert their children, leaving them with no means of survival and some of them become street children and expose themselves to a risky environment. A 12-year-old girl and a Standard Six pupil at Shirimatunda Primary School in Hai District (Kilimanjaro) since she was born she has been living with her mother in the same village. But both the mother and herself were living in a house built by her grandmother. The girl’s mother and grandmother, who were struggling to get one meal a day, let alone other basic needs, would pay for the girl’s education and health services. Despite the critical situation faced by the family, the girl was still going to school. As she looked for other means of getting out of poverty, the girl’s mother decided to go to Dar es Salaam in search of greener pastures, thus leaving behind her daughter and grandmother. I n order to survive and keep the family going, the girl’s grandmother decided to start a local brew business (gongo), which helped them to get some money for buying food, paying a school fee and other necessaries for the girl. The liquor was being served inside and outside the grandmother’s home and so the house became too busy with drinkers moving in and out. It didn’t take a long time before the girl was exposed to a risky environment. In an unknown situation, which her grandmother could hardly explain, some of the drinkers defiled the girl. At school, teachers noticed some abnormalities in the girl’s appearance. They reported the matter to the Hai District Social Welfare office, where she was taken for interview and collection of important information before taking action. The Social Welfare office advised the school management to consult Hai paralegal Gabriel Mndeme and see how the girl could be helped. “As we continued discussing, I decided to take the girl to my home. She is now in the safe hands. She is going to school just like other pupils,” said Hai paralegal, who was instrumental in getting the girl out of the risky environment. The girl has since been transferred from Shirimatunda Primary to Weruweru Primary Schoo thanks to collaboration between the Hai District Social Welfare office, education officers and the paralegal. “The girl is fine and she is doing well in class,” said her class teacher at Weruweru Primary School Sarah Munuo. “As the school management, we provide the girl with all necessary support to ensure she is comfortable and performs well. In fact, her story pushed us to introduce a special session and the Hai paralegal comes here and educates pupils on a regular basis about legal issues, child rights, how to protect themselves from risky situations as rape, early marriage and early pregnancy,” said Weruweru Primary School head teacher Andrew Makiao.