TRADE and Industry Minister, Mr Joseph Kakunda has challenged the Tanzania Coffee Board (TCB) to make good use of the country’s entry and exit points in promoting the product. He tasked the Kilimanjarobased board to establish Coffee Shops at various Airports, such as the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA). “The move seeks to promote and market the product which Tanzania is also revered with,” said the minister when he toured the board recently. According to Mr Kakunda, establishing coffee lounges at the entry and exit points is tantamount to selling the product to the international markets, especially Europeans, whom he said have developed a passion for coffee produced in Tanzania. “Eventually, we would have attracted coffee lovers all over the world,” he noted. He further challenged the board to erect huge posters and adverts at airports, indicating that Tanzania was also a home to best coffee varieties, namely Arabica and Robusta. “This should also entail that the coffee products are well packaged for the global appeal,” recommended the minister. In his quick rejoinder, TCB’s Director of Coffee Development and Operations (DCDO), Mr Kajiru Kissenge assured the minister that they’d liaise with KIA management in securing an outlet to establish a coffee lounge. At the moment, the busy airport is dotted with a number of restaurants each selling different foreign dishes like Cappuccino, an espresso-based coffee drink which originates from Italy being popular for travellers leaving and entering the country through the airport. Tanzania is revered for Arabica, a bright, acidic and fruity coffee variety. It accounts for about 60 to 70 percent of Tanzania’s coffee output. Currently, coffee is Tanzania’s largest export, upwards of 40,000 metric tonnes grown annually, accounting for about $60mn in revenue each year. The industry employs more than 400,000 families. Tanzania is the fourth largest African producer of coffee, placing them well within the top 20 largest coffee producers on the planet.