TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) has criticised opposition politicians for tending to speak negatively of government efforts to create an enabling investment climate to attract more domestic and foreign direct investments in the country. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, TIC Executive Director, Geoffrey Mwambe said it was unfortunate that although the government was working hard to attract more investments opposition politicians were giving misleading information to the detriment of investments in the country. Mr Mwambe particularly spoke of misleading information given recently by Kigoma Urban MP (ACT-Wazaelendo), Zitto Kabwe on the investment situation in the country. He said more foreign and domestic investors were flocking to TIC to seek information on investment opportunities, but the opposition politicians like Mr Kabwe were busy making pointed remarks. He advised Mr Kabwe, who says he is also an economist, to stop making negative remarks for his political mileage, but speak positively of his country and help Tanzania attract more investors, instead of being negative and leaving his voters demoralised by his way of thinking. “The government is negotiating with investors interested in Liganga and Mchuchuma Coal and Iron ore mines, whereby China-based Sichuan Hongda Company, which will own 80 per cent and the National Development Cooperation (NDC), which will have 20 per cent stake, unlike Mr Kabwe’s negative remarks that everything is stalled.” The TIC boss noted further that on top of that, the government was planning to have a railway line connecting Liganda and Mchumua mining cites in Mtwara-about 660km-with Mtwara Port and that all was being discussed and investment capital was estimated at 3.1bn/-. Moreover, Mr Mwambe refuted baseless claims that natural gas investors had not been enthusiastic about the investment climate, but that discussions were progressing well between the government and the investors. “Equinor, which is a Norwegian multinational company, explored and discovered gas amounting to 20 trillion cubic feet (tct), offshore Lindi Region. Negotiations are also in good progress with qualified and competent local experts and they have both agreed a processing plant will be set up in northeastern Lindi Region for liquefied gas for export. It’s unfortunate a person like Mr Kabwe says nothing about what is going on.” For TIC, that was not the end, but another potential investor in natural gas was a Holland-based company, Shell, which purchased shares from a British gas company, negotiating to start drilling gas offshore Mtwara and Lindi. Another project, which was misquoted by the opposition politician, according to Mr Mwambe, is the Bagomoyo Special Economic Zone, which includes the would-be- East Africa’s biggest port. He clarified that what was disputed was not the entire project, but some contract clauses, which were not beneficial to Tanzania and its people. “Failure to agree with the current investor is not the end of the project for the latter belongs to the government and looking for an investor with win-win terms will continue taking place,” said Mr Mwambe. He called on Mr Kabwe and other opposition politicians to be visiting TIC before making misleading statements, which apart from discouraging investors to come and invest in various sectors of the economy, they made voters question their competence to be their representatives.