LIFE has returned to normal in Dar es Salaam City and its environs after roughtly ten days without plastic bags in use, with almost everyone carrying alternative bags, which are friendly to the environment. The observation was made recently in the city by National Environment Management Council (NEMC), Director General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka, in an interview with journalists, adding that: “The City Council will continue with advocacy on the use of the alternative bags and as well keep conservation the environment. “We did not have to use force in this, but opted for advocacy to sensitize the people on the effects of plastic bags on the environment. We will continue to make sure that laws and regulations on environmental protection are implemented thoroughly “Already our Officers are in various parts of the country monitoring the implementation of the ban, and there has been a tremendous response on the part of stakeholders, who include the general public,” he said. Reached for a comment, some city residents expressed their appreciation to the government for the firm decision, saying that it is for the sake the environment where they live in. One of the businessmen who own a kiosk selling the new alternative bags, Mr Yunus Mwakikuti said at the beginning his customers were reluctant to purchase the new bags, but now like them. “I would like to congratulate the government for the move which is key in protecting the environment and in ensuring good health to its citizens. All the agencies and stakeholders who took part in making this possible deserve a pat on the back,” said Mr Mwakikuti. On her side, a petty trader at Mbagala Rangi Tatu Ms Zakia Abdalah, said the move is commendable because the plastic bags posed a great health risk to the environment. “The first day was hectic but now people are used to the newly introduced bags, which are durable and of better quality than the former,” she said. However, Ms. Abdalah urged responsible authorities to continue with the advocacy work in a bid to ensure compliance in the public and sustainability. Earlier, President John Magufuli was recently quoted commending the move saying that its implementation went on smoothly and was crucial in protecting the environment.