TANZANIA professional golfers; Abdallah Yusufu and Fadhil Nkya endured tricky start after the first round of the KCB Karen Masters, a Sunshine Tour competition in Kenya on Thursday. Abdallah, who teed off in the afternoon somewhat registered a better results after he carded 6 -over 78 strokes at the Karen Country Club course in Nairobi. His 78 strokes saw him share with other contenders including Hesbon Kutwa, Ganeev Giddie, Edwin Mudanyi, Ruan Conradie, Louis Albertse, Njuguna Ngugi and Tony Omuli, who also returned same score. However, his club-mate from Tanzania People’s Defense Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam, Nkya drawn at early morning tee off struggled and he carded 10-over 82. Nkya told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Kenya yesterday that all went wrong for him at first round. “It was very hard for me in here to deal with the chilly weather especially in the morning. I simply couldn’t play,” he said. He added that with preparations he had, he felt more than ready to compete among top golfers, but he has already registered a disappointing first round that makes things more difficult now for him to talk about making a cut. Regardless, Nkya said that he will try to amend his first round dismal performance, to see if there is any room for making a cut. Tanzania fielded two golfers in the maximum field of 156 top pros around the world, who are battling for cash prizes. The Karen Masters is the second biggest event in terms of prize money in the Sunshine Tour after the Mopani Zambia Open, whose prize money was 2.5 million Rand ( about 374m/-). Report from Nairobi shows that Zimbabwe’s Stephen Ferreira made a staggering nine birdies and an eagle en route to a 10-under-par 62 round, one score to take a five-shot lead of the second edition of the KCB Karen Masters. Back-to-back birdies from the first through to the fourth hole set the tone for Ferreira, who plays under the Portuguese flag, before he made a bogey on the fifth. Another birdie on the eight and he turned in 32 before making three consecutive pars. Ferreira, having teed off in the afternoon, had what seemed to be the best score of the day to deal with, a five-under-par 6 7 set by the young Garrick Higgo, Neil Schietekat, Thabiso Ngcobo and Kenya’s own Greg Snow.