…Via bulk procurement of Liquefied Petroleum Gas PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday gave a directive with regard to the government’s intention to introduce bulk procurement of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), which has been hanging in the balance for sometime due to contests amongst private players. The President instructed the Energy Ministry and private sector players to hold talks for putting in place arrangements that would guarantee a win-win situation in the LPG sub-sector.Procedures to introduce bulk procurement for the LPG started over two years ago, with the government announcing tenders for supply of the gas under that system. The government’s reasons behind the intention to introduce bulk procurement, like applies for petrol, diesel and kerosene, were to regulate prices and limit importation of the LPG to butane as well as to create an enabling environment for investors. The decision followed a witnessed steady increase in LPG consumption in the country. “It’s better for the ministry to sit with investors in the LPG sub-sector for talks because sometimes the government would want to collect tax and interfere in operations of the private sector and consequently things get messed up,” the President stated. The President cautioned against government involvement in private sector businesses, citing the LPG sub-sector in which the state-owned Tanzania International Petroleum Reserves Limited (TIPER) failed. “I would not want to see what happened to TIPER. I call upon the suppliers of the LPG to continue supplying the gas since now the gas is supplied in 23 regions,” he stated. However, he was suspicious that the traders may use a loophole of absence of bulk procurement to evade tax because they would be using their flow meters to make under declaration of imported LPG. His remarks came following a speech by Executive Director of the Taifa Gas Ltd, Eng Hamisi Ramadhani, who expressed concern against the introduction of bulk procurement. Mr Ramadhani said the sub-sector was still growing; it needed huge investment and creativity for enabling competition among companies. “Honourable President, the price control that the government wants to introduce through the bulk procurement would remove competition,” he said. He said the move by companies to plan prices in the market had helped them to be competitive in business. On the other hand, he said the current system enables them to import LPG from manufacturers on credit, but when the bulk procurement system operates, it would force them to buy the LPG on cash. “We had discussed this matter in detail with government leaders over its disadvantages and gave our advises…if the bulk procurement had been introduced we would be unable to do this investment of LPG depot here… We ask you (President) to listen to us and see if you can allow this sub-sector be independent,” he asked Dr Magufuli. The President further challenged the suppliers to supply the gas to rural areas which hosts 60 per cent of the country’s population since currently the supply is mainly in urban places. However, he told the suppliers to reduce prices of the LPG to relieve the people from digging deeper into their pockets and encourage them to avoid using charcoal. Earlier, Energy Minister Dr Medard Kalemani explained that the LPG business was dormant until 2015. When President Magufuli ascended to the top leadership post in 2015, he had managed to increase the number of companies supplying the LPG to eight from just one. Before the Fifth Phase government, one million Tanzanians were using the LPG for domestic uses while the number has now reached 2.5 million. He said prices of LPG in Tanzania is lowest among East African countries, selling at (3080 per kilogramme), followed by Kenya (3500) and Uganda (4000).