YOUNG Africans have claimed to have so far inked 90 per cent of the players they wanted as recommended by Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera ahead of next season. That was disclosed by the club’s Chairman Mshindo Msolla during the fundraising gala dubbed 'Kubwa Kuliko' which raised funds to support the club's activities ahead of the coming season. He said ever since the new management came to office early this year, they have been working closely with Zahera and the whole technical bench as a way forward to shape the team. "Let me tell you that, we have accomplished to sign 90 per cent of the players in response to the demand made by Zahera. The remaining 10 percent will be finalised shortly since the exercise is still going on," the chairman said. He further said all the players whose contract expired at the club and could not renew them, will be dropped from the squad while those whose performance was good last season will stay put as proposed by the coach. "This development has made our coach very happy and we will continue to work closely with him so that together, we can bring back the powerful Yanga," he said. Additionally, the chairman declared that they will be serious with youth football development and expect to have U-15 as required by both FIFA and CAF. He also revealed that they will be serious in terms of kit selling and make sure that only authorised dealers have access to distribute the team's merchandise. Adding, Msolla said they have put aside enough money to be used to reinforce the female team; Yanga Princess through buying new players to be included in the squad. “We want our team (Yanga Princess) to win the Women Premier League next season that is why we need to give them necessary resources to empower them,” he said. In a related development, the chairman revealed that they will soon start Yanga Week whereby various activities will be conducted annually with its climax set to be conducted at the giant National Stadium in the city. “During this week, all Yanga fans in their respective areas countrywide will be undertaking different social works like cleaning at market and hospital premises. They will also be providing donations where necessary,” he said. According to him, the move will greatly help the club to get new members thereby increasing fan base of the team. He further pointed out that on the peak of Yanga Week, they will be parading new players to trade at the club ahead of the incoming season. He also narrated that they have put measures to bring back to life some of Yanga branches which have seized operating in some parts of the country plus simplifying procedures on how people can easily become the club members using modern ways. Elaborating more, Msolla said job vacancies which they released recently through various media outlets were made simply to get competent and well qualified people to fill key posts available so as to make the club run smoothly in accordance with the current period. He also declared that plans to change the club’s constitution are in the pipeline.