A STRATEGIC 500-hectare Kwala Dry Port may start operations next month, a new development that will help reduce containerised cargo at Dar es Salaam Port. Kwala Dry Port in Coast Region will also relieve Dar es Salaam roads leading to the port of heavy cargo trucks. This is due to the fact that imported containerised cargo on transit will be carried by railway from the port to Kwala Dry Port, where clearing procedures will be done. Likewise, a consignment of goods from neighbouring land-linked countries or upcountry regions will be transported to Kwala Dry Port before carried by railway to their destinations. On Thursday, this week, Minister for Works, Transport and Communication Isack Kamwelwe vowed that the dry port should start operations next July by hook or crook. “Our expectation is that we should start operations in July. We will even start using tents if some offices will not yet be set,” Mr Kamwelwe vowed at the construction site in Coast Region, where he convened meeting with stakeholders to discuss the matter. The SUMA JKT, which is implementing the project, also assured that it would complete the work as per the minister’s directive. “The work was initially planned to be completed in August, but since the minister wants us to finish it in July we are going to do so,” Maj-Gen Martin Busungu said. Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) Executive Director Masanja Kadogosa noted that railway infrastructure would have reached the site by July 1, ready to transport cargo to and from Dar es Salaam Port. Mr Kadogosa explained that TRC would be deploying trains with the capacity of carrying between 20 and 30 cargo wagons and it would bring seven more locomotives for transporting cargo. On the other hand, Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL) said it had already put in place national fibre optic cable infrastructure at the place, ready to provide network services. Earlier, when talking about the project, Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) Director General Deusdedit Kakoko said TPA had acquired 502 out of 52,000 hectares in the area, which was under National Ranching Company Limited (NARCO). About 120 out of 502 hectares have already been cleared and 60 hectares fenced. However, the operations will start in July while other works will be ongoing, including setting up some offices, car parks and a project to construct a road stretch from Dar es Salaam-Morogoro Road to the dry port. Currently, the road is maintained by Tanzania Rural-Urban Road Agency (TARURA), but following the meeting between the minister and the stakeholders it was said that it should immediately be handed over to Tanzania National Road Agency (Tanroads) so that matched with the dry port status. Tanroads Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Patrick Mfugale assured the minister that he would send his team of experts to start designing it. “Due to the importance of this dry port, the construction of this road should be done by us instead of TARURA,” Mr Mfugale noted. He explained that Kwala was among the projects that the government had heavily invested in to open up the country’s economic potential through transport infrastructure.