AZAM FC Head Coach Abdul Mingange said unity between the technical bench and players led to their Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) glory on Saturday. Azam defeated Lipuli FC 1-0 at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi to lift the lucrative ASFC title and became the country's new torchbearer in the forthcoming CAF Confederation Cup contest. Obrey Chirwa scored the only goal of the match in the 64th minute to give his side a hard earned victory amid speculations that he might be leaving the club ahead of the next season. It was his goalkeeper Razak Abalora who provided the timely assist after playing a long ball selecting Chirwa who used his stamina to overcome Lipuli defender Haruna Shamte before stabbing the ball to the far right corner of the goal. However, speaking after the match, Mingange praised the good relationship between members of his technical bench and players insisting that the two sides had one objective to win the cup. "In football, you need to have unity which is the main ingredient that has made us to claim the silverware today (Saturday)," Mingange said. He added: "I am happy to win this trophy for the first time at the helm of this team despite being here for a short period. I am sure that the management of the club is pleased with the outcome and the good job we are doing." He also revealed that the remaining job now is for the management of the team to fully scrutinise the report they are going to write since international games demand more attention. Seizing the opportunity, Mingange requested to be forgiven by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) over comments he made that the past league season was worse. The coach attacked the league at a post-match press briefing following their 2-0 win over Young Africans in their last match of the season played at the National Stadium last week. “The comments I made on the day did not go well with my bosses that is why I want to ask for forgiveness to everyone who was hurt in one way or the other,” Mingange said. On his part, Lipuli FC Coach Seleman Matola said fatigue among his players contributed to their downfall as they travelled a long distance before taking on their opponents. “I previously complained that the tight Mainland Premier League fixture would make us suffer in the ASFC finals since after playing against Tanzania Prisons, we had a long trip to come here (Lindi) something which was not healthy to players,” Matola said. He continued that his players are not machines that is why they lost control of the game mainly in the second half. Asked whether he will still be steering the club for the next season, Matola said all that is left to the team’s management since they have the final say concerning his future there. In the same token, the goal scorer Chirwa refuted claims that he was nearing the exit door at the club insisting that he is a legal Azam player for the moment