LANDS, Housing and Human Settlements Development Minister, William Lukuvi (pictured) has summoned over 200 land rent defaulters to a special meeting in Dodoma next week. According to the ministry’s notice, a total of 207 public and private institutions and companies as well as owners of industrial and commercial plots with accumulated land rent arrears until June this year, have been summoned to the next Tuesday’s meeting. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dorothy Mwanyika said in a statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday that institutions and companies with arrears in land rent will have to submit land ownership documents and evidences of all fee payment. Ms Mwanyika warned that stern legal measures, including revocation of their land ownership as per the Land Act, will be taken against those skipping the meeting. She noted that all land offices countrywide will remain open for seven days until June 30, this year, to allow other defaulters to verify and settle their arrears. Some of the summoned institutions and companies include Air Tanzania Corporation Limited, Arusha International Conference Centre, Tanzania Revenue Authority, Bank of Tanzania, Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau, Tanzania Investment Centre and the Agakhan Foundation. Others are BP Tanzania-Puma Energy, Bugando Medical Centre, Chief Court Administrator, Judiciary of Tanzania, Dar es Salaam Maritime Institute, Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority, Dodoma Urban Water and Sewerage Authority, Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority, Efatha Ministry, Exim Bank Tanzania Limited, Export Processing Zone Authorities and Government Employees Provident Fund. Other institutions are GAPCO Tanzania Limited, GAPOIL Tanzania Limited, Institute of Adult Education, Institute of Rural Development Planning, Kariakoo Market Corporation, Kibaha Education Centre, Kibena Tea Company LTD, Kilolo Tea Company, Moshi Municipal Council, Moshi Urban Water and Sewerage Authority. The PS also named the National Bank of Commerce, National Board of Accountants and Auditors, National College of Tourism, National Development Corporation, National Environment Management Council, National Examination Council, National Food Reserve Agency, National Health Insurance Fund, National Insurance Corporation, National Medical Research Institute, National Service Corporation (SUMA-JKT) and Nelson Mandela Institute of Science and Technology as land rent defaulters. The list also includes Registered Trustees of Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania, Registered Trustees of Roman Catholic, Reli Assets Holding Company, Tanzania Electric Supply Company, Tanzania Trade Development Authority, Tanzania Postal Bank, Tanzania Airports Authority, Tanzania Aviation Authority, Tanzania Building Agency and Tanzania Assemblies of God. Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology, Tanzania Coffee Board, Tanzania Investment Bank, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation, Tanzania Ports Authority, Tanzania Ports Corporation, Tanzania Railways Corporation, Tanzania National Roads Agency, National Microfinance Bank, University of Dar es Salaam, Open University of Tanzania and World Food Programme are among the summoned institutions to the meeting. The ministry of lands, in 2015, filed over 120 cases in attempt to recover pending land rent from title deed owners. The cases were filed as land rent compliance was merely about 20 per cent countrywide, denying the government billion of shillings annually.