ACTIVISTS advocating for children’s rights in the country have urged the government to put in place a plan where children of all ages could visit their parents in Prisons. Speaking yesterday during a round table meeting with government officials and key stakeholders on establishment of ‘safety for children in Prison, religious members, Children Education Society (CHESO), and the Wells of Hope Ministries said that the move was critical to the children’s personal development. According to Tanzania Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance, the country’s laws do not allow children under the age of 18 to visit their parents in jail. “Research has found that children who visit their parents in jail show better emotional adjustment and are able to deal with the situation in a more positive way than those who do not,” said Francis Ssuubi, the director of Wells Hope Ministries. Mr Sussubi said that the plan to allow children to visit their children would help those in jails to become law abiding citizens, once they are released and contribute to low rate of crimes’ repetition and imprisonment. However, he urged the stakeholders to discuss and deliberate ways to convince the government to put in place the plan soon. He said that Uganda and Kenya are among the countries that have in place such a strategy and encourage regular visit of children to their parents, and discuss with them their wellbeing back at home. “It is the duty of the children’s right advocates to convince the government through the Parliament to pass a law or strategy that would ensure that Tanzanian children visit their parents in Prisons, and talk to them in order to develop strong child-parent bond,” he added. Commenting, an official from the Prisons Headquarters Ms Rehema Mwailunga said children rights advocates should advocates for the review of the law so that children could be allowed to see their parents in prison. “It is a better plan as it would help to encourage and maintain child-parent bond by reducing negative effects of one in prison and also allow them to know their children’s health and wellbeing,” he said. The meeting was organized to mark the International Day of Innocent Children victims of Aggression that is observed every 4th of June with the aim of educating the public to mobilize political will and resources to address global problems and reinforce achievements in humanity.