Power stability and surplus production is enabling Mwanza Region residents to register positive business growth, and in turn assure the government its due revenue. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ over the weekend, the Tanzania Electric Supply Co Ltd (TANESCO) Senior Manager for the Lake Zone Eng Macrine Mbonille said that the previous reliance and use of generators by the locals has drastically reduced as in other parts of the country, especially now that they are guaranteed a surplus of around 300MW. He cited an example of the 60MW Nyakato Power plant, which used to consume around 300,000 liters of Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) on daily basis and has now been switched off. “We are very much stable now in comparison to the past and this has resulted to the shutdown of expensive power plants like that of Nyakato popular of 60 MW… Nyakato Power Plant which used to consume around 300,000 litters of HFO a day,” said Eng Mbonile. That was said during his feedback share in a meeting held here and attended by big power consumers across the Lake Zone organised to collect views on how best the Utility Company could intensify services better and meet the consumers’ demand. According to him, the entire Lake Zone regions had 326 large power consumers, which consume around 50 per cent of the power, and the rest being consumed by 318,000 small and medium users and remitted the company 10bn/- a year. Besides the national power status, Eng Mbonile said that the trend to implement seven strategic power projects across the Lake Zone is in advanced stage and targets to produce over 300MW soon. Speaking at the meeting, the Mwanza Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Eng Christopher Kadio commended TANESCO for maintaining smooth power supply that is crucial to the public and government infrastructural development programmes. However, he challenged all government institutions to pay their bills to the company on time, and tasked defence and security organs to squarely deal with criminals, who would sabotage power infrastructure. “The country is now implementing strategic development agenda, including industrialisation which depends on reliable production and supply of power. Any sabotage in this noble process will not be tolerated,” he said.