EX-Manchester United Manager, Jose Mourinho has insisted that Mohamed Salah must win the African Cup of Nations if he is to be put in contention to win the Ballon d’Or this year. The Liverpool winger has been a crucial part of Jurgen Klopp’s Champions League-winning campaign, and will be looking to take Egypt to their eighth Afcon title, more than any other nation in the tournament. It took the Reds just 35 seconds to earn a penalty against Tottenham Hotspur on Saturday, which was scored by Salah, and eventually took the Merseyside outfit to their sixth Champions League title after beating Spurs 2-0. As reported by Goal, Mourinho believes that his efforts will be rewarded should he be able to lead his nation to glory. Speaking with beIN Sports, the 56-year-old said: “Salah has to win the African Cup of Nations if he wants to compete for the Ballon d’Or. The tournament is taking place in Egypt, which makes it a demand that has to be achieved. Salah was among the nominees for the prestigious award last year. However, it was Luka Modric who took the award home after commanding both the Real Madrid and Croatia midfield to two major finals, winning the Champions League and bowing out to France in the 2018 World Cup final. The Portuguese manager believes he must replicate Modric’s level of success last season if he is in for a chance to claim the Ballon d’Or, a title that has been mainly dominated by Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi over the last decade. Liverpool missed out on the Premier League title on the final day of the competition despite claiming all three points against Wolverhampton Wanderers. Manchester City put aside a threatening Brighton side to win England’s top division. Salah tallied 22 goals and 11 assists in the league this term and contributed to five more goals in the Champions League. The 26-year-old will definitely be looking to add to his Golden Boot, shared with team-mate Sadio Mane and Arsenal striker Pierre Emerick-Aubameyang, and grow his personal collection after two great seasons at Anfield. Zimbabwe Warriors will face hosts Salah’s Egypt in the opening match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations on June 21, according to the draw of the continental showpiece held next to the pyramids in Cairo, Egypt on Friday night. Zimbabwe, who will be aiming to progress from the group stages for the first time in the country’s history, were drawn in Group A alongside hosts Egypt, Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo. The draw means the Warriors will book another date with DR Congo, who they beat away before sharing the spoils at home during the qualification phase of the competition. Defending champions Cameroon are in Group F with Ghana, Benin and Guinea-Bissau, while neighbors South Africa have been drawn in Group D alongside Morocco, Ivory Coast and Namibia. Some of Africa’s football legends as Yaya Toure (Africa’s best player 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2011), Rigobert Song, El Hadji Diouf, Mustapha Hadji, Honsy Abd Rabo among others have graced the event. For the first time, 24 countries will be competing at arguably the best footballing fiesta on the African continent. Cameroon are the defending champions, having triumphed during the last event hosted by Gabon in 2017. Egypt will use six stadia to host this biennial championship. This is the second straight Nations Cup final that Uganda has been placed in the same group as Mohamed Salah’s Egypt. Group F in the 24-team tournament brought together the second and third most successful sides in its history. Cameroon, who won their fifth continental crown last time and were originally set to host the competition, will face fourtime winners Ghana. Benin and Guinea-Bissau complete the group. Group D contains three former champions, with top seed Morocco matched against Ivory Coast and South Africa, as well as Namibia. Senegal, the only one of the six top seeds never to have won the event, will face a former champion Algeria as well as the East African pair of Kenya and Tanzania in Group C. Nigeria takes on Guinea, Madagascar and Burundi in Group B. Tunisia face Mali, Mauritania and Angola in Group E. Egypt will be hosts for a record fifth time. They previously staged the Cup of Nations in 1959, 1974, 1986 and 2006, winning three of those four tournaments and finishing third in the other. Only three countries, Sudan, Egypt and Ethiopia, took part in the first tournament in February 1957 and there was no qualifying competition. The most successful country has been Egypt, with seven titles, followed by Cameroon (five), Ghana (four), Nigeria (three) and the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Ivory Coast (two each). Cameroonian Samuel Eto’o is the leading overall Cup of Nations scorer, notching 18 goals in six tournaments between 2000 and 2010. Egypt goalkeeper, Essam el Hadary became the oldest player at 44 years and 21 days to feature in the tournament when he faced Cameroon in the 2017 final in Libreville.