TANZANIA is still making evaluations before ratifying the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) pact, whose agreement entered into force on Thursday. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation, Dr Damas Ndumbaro, said that the country is yet to ratify the agreement, insisting that it was important to evaluate its impact. However, Dr Ndumbaro said during the meeting held in Kigali, Rwanda last year, to launch the AfCFTA -one of the flagship projects of Africa´s Agenda 2063 and a major step towards African continental economic integration, that Tanzania fully participated and signed for its establishment. He told the National Assembly when winding up the ministry’s budget estimate for 2019/2020 financial year that when the evaluation is completed, Tanzania will consider ratifying the agreement. Dr Ndumbaro had to clarify after Malindi MP, Ally Saleh Ally (CUF), who argued that the agreement was important for the country’s diplomatic economic growth, and demanded to know why Tanzania is dragging its feet towards ratifying the deal. It is reported that at least 22 countries have deposited their instruments of ratification of the AfCFTA agreement to the African Union (AU). Analysts say the significance of the AfCFTA cannot be overstated: It will be the world’s largest free trade area since the establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1994. It is estimated that under a successfully implemented AfCFTA, Africa will have a combined consumer and business spending of 6.7 trillion US dollars in 2030. AfCFTA will also have a significant impact on manufacturing and industrial development, tourism, intra-African cooperation, and economic transformation. United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), has predicted it will raise intra-African trade by 15 to 25 percent, or 50 billion US dollars to 70 billion US dollars, by 2040, compared to an Africa without the AfCFTA. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) similarly projects that, under the Af- CFTA, Africa’s expanded and more efficient goods and labor markets will significantly increase the continent’s overall ranking on the Global Competitiveness Index. Increased market access, in turn, is expected to enhance the competitiveness of industries and enterprises, the exploitation of economies of scale, and the efficacy of resource allocation.