NATIONAL senior football side, Taifa Stars technical bench has been strengthened a day before their pre Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) friendly with the hosts Egypt. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo said in a statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the federation has bolstered the technical bench which is under former Nigerian and Barcelona football legend Emmanuel Amunike by hiring two technical staff. Amunike bench will now be joined by two experts -- Abdelrahman Essa, who has been appointed as the team’s Physical Trainer and Ali Taha, who has been appointed as the team’s Performance Analyst ahead of the AFCON finals. The two Egyptian experts, who have both worked with Amunike in the past, have already joined Stars’ camp in Cairo, ahead of the AFCON finals. Taifa Stars became the first team to arrive in Egypt for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), which will commence on June 21st to July 19th this year. Taifa Stars departed their training base in Dar es Salaam for Cairo last Friday, as they continue their preparation for the tournament. Stars jetted off buoyed with confidence to excel in the finals, in where 24 teams will battle it up for the Africa glory. The team has set up camp in Alexandria and tomorrow, Stars will play hosts country Egypt, Pharaohs at the Borg El-Arab Stadium in a friendly game. At least thirty thousand fans are expected to watch the match. Egyptian referee Mohamed Adel will take charge of the game, and will be assisted by compatriots Samir Gamal and Youssef El-Bossaty. Taifa Stars will then square up against Zimbabwe three days later in their final build-up match as proposed by Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike. Packed in group C, the country's torchbearer will ignite their campaign by facing Senegal on June 23rd before taking on neighbours Kenya on June 27th. Stars will wind up group stage mission by playing against Algeria on July 1st. After the two friendly matches, Amunike will announce his final squad of 23 players from 32 players currently in Alexandria camp for the finals. Stars full squad: Goalkeeper; Aishi Manula (Simba), Metacha Mnata (Mbao), Suleiman Salula (Malindi) and Aaron Lulambo (Tanzania Prisons). Defenders; Claryo Boniface (U20), Hassan Kessy (Nkana, Zambia), Vincent Philipo (Mbao), Mohammed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni (Simba), Kelvin Yondan, Gardiel Michael (Yanga), Abdi Banda (Baroka, South Africa), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli), David Mwantika and Aggrey Morris (Azam). Midfielders; Feisal Salum (Yanga), Himid Mao (Petrojet, Egypt), Frank Domayo, Mudathir Yahya (Azam), Shiza Kichuya (ENNPI, Egypt), Simon Msuva (Difaa Hassan El-Jadidi Morocco), Farid Mussa (Tenerife, Hispania) and Freddy Tangalu (Lipuli). Strikers; Yahya Zayd (Ismailia, Egypt), Shaaban Iddi Chilunda (Tenerife, Spain), Rashid Mandawa (BDF, Botswana), Miraj Athumani (Lipuli), Kelvin John (Serengeti Boys), Adi Yussuf (Solihull Moors, England), John Bocco (Simba), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura, Algeria) and skipper Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk, Belgium).