A SUM of 300,000 US dollars (over 600m/-) which was paid to Simba Sports Club as transfer fees for international prayer Emmanuel Okwi was transferred into a personal bank account of former Club’s Chairman, Evans Aveva. This was said at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the then Chief Accountant with the “Msimbazi Street” Club Amos Juma when testifying into the trial of Aveva, his Vice-Chairman, Geoffrey Nyange and Registration Committee Chairman, Zacharia Hans Poppe. “I have never seen Aveva lending money to Simba for the time I was there. There must have been an agreement and repayment procedure if there is any loan,” the sixth prosecution witness told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba. Led by a prosecutor with Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Leonard Swai, the witness testified that on March 14, 2016. Aveva called a ordinary meeting of the Executive Committee, which was attended by 10 members to discuss, among others, Okwi’s transfer fees of 319,212 US dollars. During the meeting, he testified, the Committee decided some of the money should be used for construction of the Club’s playing ground at Bunju. 17,000 US dollars be paid to Hans Poppe as loan refund and the rest be deposited in a special account for development of the playing ground. According to him, on the next day while executing his duties, Nyange came into his office and demanded to be given the cheque book for the bank account where Okwi’s money was deposited. The witness accounted that having been given, Nyange left with the cheque book. “Two leafs were missing when he (Nyange) returned the cheque book. He also gave me a paper from CRDB for  the transfer of 300,000 US dollars from the Club’s account to Aveva’s personal account. I demanded some explanations from him,” the witness told the court. The witness explained that he prepared a memorandum of understanding having Nyange told him that the money in question would be used for Club’s projects and that would only be drawn depending on the budget that would be approved by the Committee. Thereafter, the witness went on, a form for transfer of funds for payments of artificial turf was brought to him and other payments of 50,000 US dollars was made to a contractor, Racky Infrastructure and another receipt for payments of 50,000 US dollars for construction of the playing ground. Nyange, the witness further stated, had told him the money was also used to settle the 17,000 US dollars loan for Hans Poppe, while a sum of 900 US dollars was paid to the government as fees for a permit of constructing the Bunju playing ground. The witness told the court that on March 31, 2016, Nyange came to his office with a form and two control numbers, one for 48,900,000/-and the other with 32m/-for payments of tax to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). He testified that there was an invoice for 40,000 US dollars relating to artificial turf, but as they were preparing to make the payments, a sum of 50m/-was paid to Simba by Yanga, a sum of which was used to settle the first control number of 48,900,000/-. The witness testified that the other control number was settled when he went to Aveva’s office where he was paid cash amount for the purpose. However, the witness said, after the arrest of Aveva and Nyange in connection with the trial, the TRA brought new tax demands to the Club. He told the court that the interim leadership of the club at the time instructed him to follow up the matter with the TRA where he was given two invoices, one for 109,000 US dollars and the other with 40,000 US dollars, for the artificial turf. “We bought the artificial turf at a cost of 109,000 US dollars. I don’t know, therefore, what happened for such reduction amount. As a result we were forced to pay additional amount of 85m/-,” the witness said.  