TAIFA Stars skipper, Mbwana Samatta has apologized to Tanzanians following back to back defeats at the ongoing 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals in Egypt. Stars failed to hold on into their 2-1 first half advantage only to allow Kenya’s Harambee Stars recovered to out-muscle them 3-2 during a group C contest at the 30th June Stadium on Thursday evening. In their opening match, Stars lost 2-0 to Senegal at the same venue last Sunday. Speaking shortly after the match, Samatta they let it slip through their hands, saying they collapsed in the second half and committed regrettable mistakes. “We played well especially in the first half but collapsed somewhere in the second half. It really pains to lose this way and on behalf of my fellow players I apologise to Tanzanians for letting them down,” said the Belgium based KRC Genk striker. Meanwhile, Kenya Harambee Stars Head Coach, Sebastien Migne was excited having guided his side to an emphatic 3-2 victory over East African rivals Tanzania at AFCON 2019. Harambee Stars recovered from a goal down to outmuscle Taifa Stars 3-2 during a group C contest at the 30th June Stadium on Thursday evening. Coach Minge heaped special praise onto his players in the aftermath of the game. “When we went back to the dressing rooms losing 2-1, I gave the players that never give up message. I am happy because in terms of team spirit, we showed true qualities. We had the belief. We won the game, I am very happy. The French national admitted that he has a difficult assignment against Senegal in the final group game coming up on Monday. “We have nothing to lose. Everything is possible. We always play to win. I cannot accept to lose but to win. I did not see a lot of weaknesses for the Senegalese team. We feel no pressure to play them because we have nothing to lose. We shall think about Senegal after tomorrow (Friday), and then plan with the technical team. This victory against Tanzania was so important. Reacting on the first half change where he pulled off Gor Mahia’s, Francis Kahata for Sofapaka gangly forward John Avire, the coach noted that it was purely tactical after he sensed that he needed to beef up the front line. “We called off Kahata (Francis), for Avire (John), in the first half. This change was purely tactical. Francis (Kahata), has struggled in this tournament and we hope he will recover as we get along,” Sebastien Migne said of Kahata’s change in the first half. Kenya now has three points, same as Senegal whom they face in the final group C game. With Algeria already qualified to the next round, the onus lines upon either Kenya or Senegal to determine who joins the North Africans at the stage of 16. Algeria will face Tanzania in the other last group game.