PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said the official implementation of a business environment improvement blueprint will kick off on July 1, 2019. The Premier told the National Assembly when adjourning the parliamentary budget session that as plans for implementation of the blue print were ongoing, the government would assess its implementation. “The implementation of the blueprint will go in line with the government’s intention to improve the country’s business environment, which has been clearly elaborated in the Finance Act, 2019, which has abolished 54 different taxes,’’ said Mr Majaliwa. This raises hopes that Tanzania’s investment climate will be improved further to meet the country’s industrialisation objectives. The ministerial cabinet approved the blueprint early last year, setting a stage for amendments to laws and regulations governing the way of conducting businesses in the country. The blueprint – prepared after consultation with various private sector stakeholders and World Bank officials – will see the government initiating amendments to various laws. Tabling the 33.1tri/- budget for the 2019/20 fiscal year last week, Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, said in improving the business and investment climate in the country, the government had decided to review 54 nuisance fees and levies following a recent meeting between President John Magufuli and traders at the State House in Dar es Salaam. “This is the first phase of implementation of the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve the business environment,” said the minister. He mentioned the fees and levies that were proposed for amendments as seven under the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), the levies include abolition of retention fee for domestic products on registration of vaccines and biological $150, herbal medicines $150, medical devices $100, diagnostics $250, food $10, antiseptics and diagnostics 100,000/-. Fees to be abolished are those for duplicate certificates on diagnostic $100, inspection fees for new food selling outlet 50,000/-, registration fee for retails veterinary pharmacy 50,000/- to 100,000/, inspection fees for fish industries 200,000/- to 250,000/-, inspection fees for new fish outlets 50,000/- and annual business licence fees on fish outlet 50,000/- to 300,000/- . Yesterday, the Prime Minister said to ensure the blueprint was fully implemented on July 1, the government had directed the Ministry of Trade and Industries in collaboration with the Prime Minister’s Office to distribute the blueprint and strategic plan for implementation to all ministries so that they could supervise the implementation at their respective levels.