THE Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC), Chairman, Walter Chipeta has lauded snooker section’s effort that resulted to the renovation of the snooker room and installation of two modern tables. Chipeta, who was chief guest during the opening ceremony of the renovated snooker room on Tuesday evening, said that snooker section has set good example for others to follow. “I want to applaud snooker Captain Sanjay Patadia and all members for extremely wonderful job that enabled us to re-open this glittering snooker room. A club of Gymkhana stature highly depends on support from its members…I’m happy that you made this possible. You have shown the way,” he said. The renovation included installation of two snooker tables, new flouring, lighting, waterproofing and paint, new glass windows, new wooden doors and toughened glass aluminum portion, door and new plumbing for the men’s shower with mixers. Addressing, Captain Patadia said that they are happy that their hard work is paying off and now the club was ready for big tournaments ahead. The captain said that the snooker tables which were manufactured many years ago, needed renovation to mordenise them. Patadia commended snooker expert from South Africa Daniel Masiteng, who was in charge of the renovation, which took him at least two weeks to perfect. He also thanked Dar professional snooker Arjun Lavingia, for assisting and supervising while the snooker tables were being refurbished. Patadia however, said the good job could not possible without support from his committee which include– Vice- Captain Atish Chohan, Secretary Ally Gulamali, Treasurer Chagan Modessa Competition Secretary Harshid Barmeda and Committee Member Akil Akberali. “We all know and agree that any such project requires funds. You will be pleased to know that each and every snooker player and well-wishers, wholeheartedly contributed according to their means for which my committee and I are extremely indebted. “We spent entire days here supervising the work and ensuring that the quality of work had to be of the highest standards and to make sure the timelines were adhered to,” he noted. The captain extended his gratitude to Upanga Club for accommodating DGC snooker players during the renovation. Patadia also extended special thanks to Rupesh Soni, former captain Sheizad Bhanji, Barmeda, Sajaad Salehbhai, Neel, Shekhar and Impex Insurance Brokers, Insignia Coral Paints, Mechanise Cargo systems for their immense contributions. In an interview with this paper Masiteng was grateful to be given this opportunity once again to work in Tanzania. “It is my second job in Tanzania…the first was at Serengeti National Park Hotel, where I also made some refurbishment,” he said, adding, I find Tanzania very interesting, it is a nice country. I met some good players here, they have place in the snooker World.” Meanwhile, Chipeta also commended the newly elected DGC Honorary Secretary, Ivan Tarimo, saying that he is hopeful the addition of young and energetic mind in the club leadership will help propel the club’s development