THE government envisages increasing revenues from the country’s hunting activities by almost eight times from the current 5.6tri/-, thanks to transformation of hunting blocks’ sales into electronic bidding system. It was revealed here that the country’s hunting blocks will be placed on sale through special online bidding portal that will be rolled out globally on June 10, this year, marking the country major transformation in sport hunting industry. Tanzania Wildlife Authority (TAWA) is now training local tour operators and safari hunting firms’ owners on how to log into the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism portal, enroll, interact and place bids in the forthcoming first online auctioning venture expected in a week’s time. TAWA’s Deputy Commissioner for Tourism and Business Services Imani Nkuwi pointed out that, through electronic bidding system, values of hunting blocks will be market driven and determined by buyers who win tenders after the fall of digital hammer in the electronic bidding system. Nkuwi explained, “This time it won’t be the government or the ministry deciding how much the particular block costs but rather buyers themselves will compete against each other by offering the plot price.” According to TAWA official, the first phase of online auction is scheduled to run from June 10 through 17, this year, with 26 hunting blocks put up on sale through the ministry’s portal. Contributing over 17.5 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), hunting activities in Tanzania rake in nearly 2.5 billion US dollars. According to Mr Nkuwi, the annual revenues translate into 5.6tri/-, which the highest as far as the country’s foreign exchange is concerned. Tanzania has 160 potential hunting blocks but already 78 are occupied, leaving 81 blocks that will be put on sale through electronic bidding system to be conducted in three phases, the first coming up next week, while the second auction is expected to be held in September 2019. Chairman of Simba Professional Hunting Association (SPHA) Julius Saitoti lauded the government’s move to float the hunting blocks though online auctioning system, saying the decision will make bidding more transparent and reveal the actual value of each and every hunting block.