THE Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) plans to make a major facelift to its estate facilities especially the residential apartments at Kijenge and Kaloleni in Arusha to ensure that clients enjoy the best services and facilities. Speaking at the AICC meeting with stakeholders, mostly residential tenants, the AICC Managing Director, Mr Elishilia Kaaya said the Centre is committed to improve and modernize its facilities to the client’s satisfaction. “We are planning to undertake major renovations and routine preventive maintenance of estates including fixing solar panel lights in most of the roads within the Kaloleni and Kijenge estates,” said Mr Kaaya in a speech read on his behalf by the Director of Finance and Administration, Mr Savo S. Mung’ong’o. Mr Kaaya also noted that already 16 residential units have been re-roofed in the last financial year and plans were afoot to renovate 32 units, saying this renovation is over and above the routine maintenance. He said starting from next month, a contractor, will be on site to renovate the storm water channel crossing the estate at Kaloleni which caused flooding recently due to construction of Namanga Arusha Moshi Highway. The construction of the high way re-directed the storm water channels to the AICC estate in Kaloleni instead of the earlier direction to Naura spring causing flooding at Kaloleni estate especially for the housing units near the Soweto Club. Mr Kaaya said the organization is also planning to construct a new outpatient department unit at the AICC hospital facilities in a move to reduce the congestions at peak hours and improve service delivery to outpatients. The AICC also briefed their clients on the future plan to construct state of the art Mount Kilimanjaro International convention centre which will have different halls and conference facilities including a hall with a capacity of 3000 delegates. The yesterday’s event was part of the celebration of the Public Service week. Apart from meeting the estate tenants, AICC is also planning to meeting conference service clients and the management to meet all staffs today. All staff at AICC will also participate in the cleaning of the AICC hospital.