TRIALS to update permanent voter register have shown big success, thus setting a stage to roll out the exercise countrywide next month, the National Elections Commission (NEC), stated yesterday. “The voter registration trials were successfully carried out and many citizens turned up. And the machines proved efficient, particularly on the part of batteries of the Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) kits,” pointed out NEC Vice-Chairman, and an Appeal Court Judge, Mbarouk Mbarouk, when the commission met representatives of people living with disabilities. The trials were conducted at Kihonda Ward in Morogoro and Kibuta Ward in Kisarawe District, Coast Region. He said the batteries showed high capacity and retained power for several hours, enabling them to sustain the exercise in areas, which lack electricity. The meeting was part of the ongoing meetings with its stakeholders ahead of the voter registration, civic elections and General Election. In another development, Judge Mbarouk said that the commission has already given all political parties a list of polling centres and their locations countrywide, so that they arrange and assign their agents at the stations waiting for the exercise to begin. “We all know the importance of presence of agents at the registration centres, because they are representatives of those party at a particular centre,” he added. The NEC would also engage with all political parties while selecting their Officers-in- Charge at the centres, including Clerks and BVR operators. Speaking over participation of the people living with disabilities in the elections, the Vice-Chairman noted that the commission recognizes needs of the group, adding that it would continue looking at better ways to enable them to participate more in registration exercise and elections. In some regions, the commission has deployed sign language experts to ease communication for the deaf people. On other hand, the Commission said it would strengthen civic and voter education through various means, including sensitizing the public through the media.