PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa is expected to grace Young Africans’ mega fundraising event dubbed ‘Kubwa Kuliko’ at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam today. Yanga are determined to turn things around after two shaky seasons at both local and international stages. Chairman of the Special Committee formed to steer fundraising drive for the club development, David Ruhago, said on Thursday that so far the going is good as members and fans are responding positively towards contributing to their beloved team. The short term objective, Ruhago said is to make sure that Yanga is financially stable to enable the team compete favourably in the Mainland Premier League and CAF Champions League next season. For the past two seasons, Yanga have failed to win the top flight title, after previously winning it three seasons on the trot. Financial setback has to the large extent been described as a major factor that distabilised the club from staging successful campaign in the top flight and continental football. Ruhago said during his visit to the ‘Daily News’ on Thursday that the club will stage a mega fundraising event today in which Yanga members and fans will make further contributions to their team. He did not reveal how much the drive targeted to collect but insisted that so far, Yanga fans and members countrywide have responded positively and have already contributed significant amount of money that will be announced today. Ruhago said the fundraising drive does not mean that Yanga was financially crippled, insisting that the drive aims to tap into the available resources to further benefit the club and complement what the club already has. He said former President Jakaya Kikwete, a renowned Yanga fan will be in presence. “It will simply be ‘Yanga Day’… we will have a number of activities, which include entertainment from top artists. We will have a good number of artists such as Madee and Ali Kiba as well Bongo Movie Stars,” he said. Ruhago said the term of reference for the committee was to sensitize Yanga members and fans to contribute funds to support running of their club activities. They were also tasked to create the club’s database. “We’ve been tasked to identify the number of members and fans of the club countrywide as a long term strategy to ensure that the club effectively uses its strong fans base to generate revenue. “The database will help the club raise significant amount of funds from annual subscription of membership fee and sale of club’s replica t-shirts and other endorsements,” he said. He said Yanga is a big brand but still, little has been tapped from the club’s rich history and huge fan base.