NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars are taking Zimbabwe, the Warriors in their final warm up clash in Alexandria, Egypt today, before the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals kick off on Wednesday. This will be the second build up match for Taifa Stars after facing host Egypt Pharaoh at the Borg El Arab Stadium in Alexandria on Thursday night in which, the hosts won 1-0. Going into the match today, Taifa Stars Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike is determined to make amends of mistakes made in their previous match, which they lost. He said that his intention is to see the team reach the knockout stage of the 2019 AFCON. The Nigerian football legend, Amunike said yesterday that his players will give everything to reach the second round of the finals scheduled to kick off on June 21st to July 19th this year. And, after producing a respectable defensive performance against one of the continental football powerhouse, Egypt in their first preparation game before the AFCON finals, Stars is likely to put another good display and fight against the Warriors in today’s game. Amunike said his team got what they wanted from their first encounter against Egypt and they are likely going to earn more tactically in today’s final preparation match. He believes Zimbabwe will give them momentum to achieve their goal of reaching the second round. “We played to close spaces against Egypt and we succeeded. Our goal is to improve as much as we can and improve our performances and although we’re playing in a tough group and have an uphill battle, we’ll do our best to qualify for the second round,” he disclosed. Packed in group C, the country’s torchbearer will ignite their campaign by facing Senegal on June 23rd before taking on neighbours Kenya on June 27th. Stars will wind up group stage mission by playing against Algeria on July 1st. For Zimbabwe, the tie against Taifa Stars will also be their second warm up match in preparations for the tournament. They battled to a goalless draw against Nigeria’s Super Eagles few days ago. Zimbabwe is drawn in Group A alongside hosts Egypt, Uganda and DR Congo. They will kick-off their journey on June 21 in the Cairo Stadium against the Pharaohs.