COLLEGE of Information and Communication Technologies (COICT), has initiated a Challenge Driven Education (CDE) that aims at exposing students to real situations facing the community and finding solutions rather than learning things based on theories. The initiative introduced by KTH Royal Institute of Technology from Sweden enables students and their facilitators to learn through solving challenges in the society, explained the Deputy Director from the University of Dar es Salaam Innovation and Entrepreneurship Center (UDIEC), Dr Mariam Nchimbi. “This type of teaching method facilitates a student to build both expertise on the technical and theoretical aspects that normally lack in the traditional method,” she explained. She said that this is the first intake that includes 39 students from COICT who are doing this as their final year project, pointing out that the initiative will not replace the traditional method of teaching, but rather it will be incorporated in it. She added that “We encourage such kind of initiatives, especially at the university as an impact of learning style in creating graduates who have experience and are skilled enough to get employed or innovative enough to start their own business.” Dr Nchimbi who believes that it is not what a person can do in ten years but the impact made during the time, noted that innovative and successful businesses are those that solve community problems. “It might be challenging in using this new teaching method as it requires both teachers and facilitators to adopt, but it is very beneficial,” she commented. Adding that, “we are now writing a proposal to the university’s authorities for mainstreaming CDE in our curriculum throughout the university, and if accepted it will be adapted.” The Director of KTH Global Development Hub, Jesper Vasell commented that the students were assigned to identify and find solutions faced by DAWASA as part of the CDE teaching method. “From the solutions presented by the students, it shows how beneficial and realistic the initiative is,” he said. “The students have come up with viable solutions, that if implemented by the relevant authorities, it will reduce some of the challenges facing DAWASA today,” he said as he urged respective authorities to implement and even improve on the solutions introduced by the students. Ms Caroline Paule, a fourth year computer engineering and IT student and who is among students who participated in the initiative, said that by solving real problems found in the society, it creates satisfaction that they have actually accomplished something rather than coming up with imaginary problems and sharing them on paper based on results that are already predicted. We are the first intake that got assigned last year. We were taught and later assigned to solve problems at DAWASA, where we were able to come up with real, viable, applicable solutions. “This initiative which is a human centered design is productive and endorses us with skills and experience needed once we graduate, where we directly interact with challenges and customers,” she said.