THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has dismissed claims linking some of its officers with corruption and delaying of investigation into economic cases, including the trial of two prominent businesspersons Harbinder Seth and James Rugemalira. Reacting to two articles published on Monday by two Kiswahili tabloids, the anti-corruption office says the information was not only misleading, but also aimed at undermining PCCB’s performance, especially during this period as it fights against tax evaders, misuse of public funds and economic sabotage. “PCCB is aware that it is on the war and that as we increase the speed corrupt people and the beneficiaries of corrupt practices continue seeking ways of undermining the fight against corruption and demoralising our staff,” PCCB Deputy Director General John Mbungo said in a statement yesterday. Brig-Gen Mbungo, however, assures Tanzanians that PCCB is strong and will continue exposing and dealing with corrupt people in accordance with the law, in particular, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act No 11 of 2007 regardless of their status in society. On June 17, 2019, two tabloids, Fahari Yetu and Tanzanite, carried some articles with similar contents, but bearing different headings, naming some of PCCB officers to have been involved in corrupt practices. One of the officers named is PCCB Prosecutor Leonard Swai. Mr Swai is accused of blocking cases of people with money. Other officers named include Vick Marandu, who is said to have blocked investigations of the two prominent businesspeople and Kasim Efrem is alleged to have received money from five accused charged with economic cases involving EFD machines. Others are Kasomambuto Mbengwa and one Nakembetwa, who PCCB says are not their staff since January 2019, while named one Makale and Mohamed Msangi, who are not their employees either. There is also Richard Mpungu and Mr Maembe, who are accused of misplacing a fine involving Ngorongoro Crater. Another staff is Omary Nzaro, who is accused of having unexplained wealth. PCCB, through the statement, has requested for more cooperation to know the properties owned by the officer suspected of registering them using fictitious names. Giving more clarification involving the named officers, starting with Mr Swai, Bri- Gen Mbungo states that he is a lawyer, who supervised the investigation of cases named in articles, which are currently before the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court. According to the statement, Mr Swai is also the prosecuting attorney of five cases under committal proceedings at the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court before being committed to the High Court for trial and he is the one, who prosecuted the case involving convicted Togolani Kimweri. On Ms Marandu, Bri-Gen Mbungo stated that she had never been involved in investigating the case of Seth and Rugemalira, while on Efrem he said investigation into the case he was linked with had been completed and four cases had been filed at the High Court for trial. As regards Mbengwa, the statement indicates that the case involved has already been prosecuted and the trial was conducted before Arusha Resident Magistrates’ Court where the accused was convicted and sentenced to three years’ imprisonment.