WITH all set for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals kick off today, Senegal Head Coach Alliou Cisse has said his side will not underrate Taifa Stars, as they prepare to face off in group C on Sunday. Cisse said his side will adopt a match-by-match approach at the finals with the aim to do better than the quarter-finals outing at the last edition in Gabon in 2017. The former Senegal defender is one of few coaches who will be making back-to-back appearances, from the last time. Senegal’s Teranga Lions are housed in Group C with Algeria, Kenya’s Harambee Stars and Tanzania’s Taifa Stars. “We cannot underestimate Tanzania and Kenya despite their status. We must also prepare well to properly approach the competition. “It is a balanced group for my team. Currently, there are no more small or big teams. All qualified teams will be in Egypt to fight and try to achieve the best possible result,” said Cisse. Cisse insisted; “We will take it game by game because we know that anything can happen. It is true that we are one of the favourites, but to reach that level we will have to beat everyone and it will begin with Tanzania on June 23rd. We must focus on our abilities and not think of our opponents.” Senegal are ranked top in the continental and are placed 22nd in the FIFA World rankings, while Algeria are placed 11th in CAF and 68th globally. Kenya are placed 105th and Tanzania are settled 131st in the world rankings released last week by the world football governing body. Taifa Stars will re-appear in the AFCON finals for the second time in history after missing out for 39 years and Emmanuel Amunike’s men are battle-ready for the continental showdown. Speaker of Parliament, Job Ndugai, visited the team’s camp on Wednesday to motivate players. He delivered to them a message from President John Magufuli that they (players) should battle hard to lift high the country’s flag in the tournament. Skipper Mbwana Samatta assured Speaker Ndugai that the team is well drilled and ready for the battle. “We are well focused and prepared for the finals… we will keep our feet on the ground and take each match seriously,” said the Belgium based KRC Genk striker. Taifa Stars were the first team to arrive in Egypt and have played two friendly games in preparation for the AFCON. They lost 1-0 in their first warm-up game against the host nation, the Pharaohs, at Alexandria’s Borg El- Arab Stadium last Thursday. On Sunday, they drew 1-1 with Zimbabwe in their final friendly game, with Mbwana Samatta’s strike cancelling out Knox Mutizwa’s first-half effort at El Sekka El Hadid Stadium in Cairo. Taifa Stars Assistant Coach Hemedi Morocco said the warm up matches against Egypt and Zimbabwe have helped the technical bench in sorting outing several areas of weakness. “He said all teams that have qualified for AFCON finals are good and well drilled, but the two warm up matches have made us know our position and how to play against our opponents,” added Morocco. After their first game against Senegal, the Taifa Stars will lock horns with Kenya in their second game on June 27, before their final Group C match against Algeria on July 1. Tanzania will hope to surpass their previous performance in the competition in 1980, where they were eliminated at the group stage.