THE president of the African Football Confederation (CAF) Ahmad Ahmad was arrested yesterday morning at a hotel in Paris, where he was staying to attend the FIFA Congress, according to Jeune Afrique. Ahmad Ahmad was arrested on Thursday morning around 8:30 am at the Berri Hotel in Paris, to be heard by the services of the Central Office for the fight against corruption and financial and fiscal offenses (Oclif). This arrest could be linked to the contract unilaterally broken by CAF with the German equipment manufacturer Puma to engage with the company Technical Steel, based in La Seyne-sur-Mer. A signing of a contract which, according to the former secretary general of the continental forum Amr Fahmy, was favored by the proximity between Ahmad Ahmad and one of the leaders of the French company, whose additional cost would reach 830 000 dollars (739 000 euros). “All decisions were made collectively” and “transparent,” the boss of African football defended himself. Meanwhile, Football governing body FIFA have released an official statement on the arrest of CAF president Ahmad Ahmad. FIFA have insisted that Ahmad is seen as innocent until proven guilty, but confirmed that the 59-year-old was captured in France. FIFA’s official statement reads: “FIFA has taken note of the alleged events concerning Mr Ahmed Ahmad, who is being questioned by the French authorities in relation to allegations related to his mandate while President of CAF. “FIFA is unaware of the details surrounding this investigation and is therefore not in a position to make any comment on it specifically. “FIFA is asking the French authorities for any information that might be relevant to investigations taking place within its Ethics Committee. “As a matter of due process, everyone has the right to the presumption of innocence, but as the FIFA President reiterated on Wednesday, FIFA is fully committed to eradicating all forms of wrongdoing at any level in football. Anyone found to have committed illicit or illegal acts has no place in football. “FIFA is now clean from the scandals that tarnished its reputation and this same determination should prevail in governing bodies such as confederations. FIFA will at the forefront of ensuring that this is enforced by everyone involved in football.”