CONSIDERABLE number of Maasai women from Northern Tanzania’s pastoral communities is now aware of their rights as far as land ownership and decision making in the society is concerned. The ‘Investing in Maasai Women’ project, which is implemented by Oikos East Africa through a European Union (EU) 5.5bn/- funding, has trained 657 women from Arusha, Monduli and Longido districts to increase awareness on human rights, issues related to gender equality, land ownership and labour rights. Bringing down the curtain of the four-year programme over the weekend, the Project Manager, Ms Francesca Lucchi disclosed that at least 27 street theatre performances were conducted to raise awareness on human right issues, with 10,200 community members—equivalent to 60 per cent of women— attending. “Maasai women still grapple with a great deal of discrimination stemming from cultural taboos, that’s why we introduced the theater performances to help raise awareness,” explained Ms Lucchi. According to the Oikos officer, the project advocated for such rights through trainings among the formal and informal Traditional Women Groups (TWG) in each village and through media where some local radio stations were used to convey the intended messages. Ms Lucchi attributed the success of the four year project to local government authorities’ support and cooperation. The project seeks to improve the livelihoods of at least 5,000 Maasai women in Northern Tanzania through social and financial inclusion. “The project experience revealed that investing resources in different elements at the same time allows vulnerable women to be empowered, bringing a significant, tangible benefit to the individual, family and the community,” she added. Representing Arusha Regional Commissioner at the event, Karatu District Commissioner Theresia Mahongo commended the Italian Non- Governmental Organisation for its efforts to advocate for women rights. She challenged the three districts to hit the ground running as they take up the project which was jointly implemented by Istituto Oikos, Marketplace Literacy Communities Trust, Maasai Pastoralists Foundation and TRIAS VZW. The project also featured beekeeping as one of the existing opportunities for women to generate income through sale of honey and allied products like beeswax.