THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) has assured the general public and political parties that the coming general elections will be free and fair. The remarks were made in Dar es Salaam yesterday by NEC Chairman, Judge Semistocles Kaijage, in response to the accusations that some of the commission officials were CCM cadres. “Let me assure you that in NEC there is no active member of any political party and this is in accordance to the laws, thus people should be assured of free and fair elections,” he said, adding: “For those who have been members of any political party, after their appointment to join NEC, the law requires them to declare that they are no longer involved in any of political parties. “ Judge Kaijage further said before undertaking any duty, members of NEC are required to fill a form to declare that they are not affiliated to any political party.He said that they promise free and fair elections because of the inclusiveness of a stakeholders approach that has been used in most of their procedures for the election preparation and updating voters register. The Chairman said all NEC officials are required to abide by the laws and regulations, to avoid unnecessary complaints from anyone. Speaking during a NEC meeting with editors and journalists, he said since the exercise to update the voter’s register will commence next month stakeholders have been involved and the commission will keep on doing that. “We want to assure the public that once we receive a complaint against any election officer who knowingly or wilfully does anything in relation to an election process, we will take appropriate measures in accordance with the law, “ said Judge Kaijage He said if the public has doubts about whoever has been declared a winner, they can file their complaints to the commission for proper procedures to be followed. On the exercise to update the voter’s register, he said more than 3,000 Biometric Voter Registration (BVR) kits have been repaired to implement that. Tanzania is expected to hold local government elections this year under the supervision of the President’s Office Regional Administrations and Local Government (PO-RALG) on behalf of NEC. The country will hold the General Election next year.