NEW chairman of the board of directors of Rural Energy Agency (REA), Julius Kalolo, has been tasked to manage well funds of the rural electrification projects and adhere to contracts entered. Energy Minister, Medard Kalemani, tasked the new board chairman after he handed him working tools in Dar es Salaam. President John Magufuli appointed advocate Kalolo to lead the board after he revoked the appointment of Mr Michael Nyagoga. Before his appointment, Mr Kalolo served as the Commissioner of Law Reform Commission of Tanzania. “You should go and implement the rural electrification projects as per contracts and with speed, efficiency and discipline,” Dr Kalemani told Mr Kalolo who was accompanied by board members at the ministry. During the meeting, Dr Kalemani handed over to the new board chair work tools, including REA legal documents. “I give you these work tools for you to go and perform well...the work procedures will backfire on you if you mess up...those projects need speed,” he emphasized. Dr Kalemani further told the chairman that Tanzanians will not understand seeing funds drying up while they don’t see electricity in their villages. Commenting, Mr Kalolo assured the minister that he will ensure that the board cooperates with other institutions responsible for energy sector. “We will work in ensuring that the vision of bringing power to rural communities is realized, we believe that we will implement the job by 100 per cent,” he vowed. The REA project intends to make electricity accessible to 12,268 villages countrywide. In 2016, The World Bank (WB), signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), with the government of Tanzania to provide $209m for the implementation of the country’s rural electrification expansion program. The program aims to connect 2.5 million Tanzanian households in rural areas to the national electricity grid over the next five years. The Rural Electrification Expansion Project is implemented under the National Rural Electrification Program (NREP), 2013–2022, which includes both on-grid and off-grid solutions.