THE Public Service Recruitment Secretariat (PSRS) is looking forward to come up with a system that would help to identify right job seekers in accordance with their General Performance Average (GPA). That was said yesterday by the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Public Service and Good Governance), Mr George Mkuchika, adding, “the secretariat must give strategic trainings to new employees.” He made the speech shortly before opening of the training on the ‘Responsibilities of the Public Recruitment Secretariat’ on the new job application system. The training has involved 140 participants from different Ministries, Dodoma Regional Office, Singida Region and its Councils as well as some public institution, which have already shifted to Dodoma City. On his side, Public Service Recruitment Secretariat (PSRS) Secretary, Mr Xavier Daudi told reporters here that the new system aims at identifying job seekers’ abilities in connection with their genuine GPA on their certificates. He said the Secretariat is doing everything in its capacity to ensure that the government employs people who are capable to demonstrate performance without problems. “Our aim is to ensure that the government gets competent employees, our challenge is to improve our systems so that we can fulfil our goal. “I must admit that many youth from Universities graduate with high GPAs, but their performances at work practically does not reflect what is written on their certificates, therefore, we are looking forward to come up with a model that would help us to deal with this problem,” he noted. The Secretary further said that his office will prepare the system that would scrutinize them so that the government employs only competent staff. Commenting on the new job application system that is set to start soon, Mr Daudi said that it would help to select candidates and get their information on time. He noted that the system would also help to conduct second selection for successful candidates to avoid nepotism and biases. “The important thing here is that the information on job application, interview and successful candidates will be easily accessed. This system has been connected to other systems, so it will also control favouritism and use of fake certificates,” he explained to the guest of honour, Mr Mkuchika.