THE government plans spending a whopping 9.73tri/- in the next fiscal year to service the ballooning public debt, which reached over 51tri/- as of last April. However, the government has outlined robust debt control measures, including borrowing from sources that charge low interest rates to finance development projects. Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango told the National Assembly here yesterday that the government debt reached 51.03tri/- last April from 49.86tri/- during the corresponding period last year. But, the minister assured that the debt remains manageable, according to the recent assessment by the ministry. He told the house that the ministry will thoroughly assess the loans to ensure that all ministries, departments and authorities (MDAs) that borrowed subject to the central government’s approval, were clearing their outstanding debts lest they leave the burden to the government. Presenting the 2019/2020 budget estimates for the ministry, Dr Mpango asked the lawmakers to approve 11.94tri/- for recurrent and development expenditures, insisting that apart from spending 9.73tri/- to service the national debt, the government will equally ensure that all loans, which are ready for repayment as per agreements, were cleared in due course. The minister said the debt has grown by 2.35 per cent in the past year, with the internal and external debts standing at 13.25tri/- and 37.78tri/-, respectively, attributing the increment to the government debt to the new loans that the country acquired for execution of various development projects. The mega projects include construction of Terminal III at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), construction of the central railway, implementation of power projects as well as construction of roads and major bridges, Dr Mpango explained. Despite the ballooning debt, the minister said the government continues making thorough periodic assessments on debt sustainability, with results of the recent assessment conducted in December 2018 indicating that the government debt remains sustainable on both short and long terms. “Indicators of present value of total public debt against Gross Domestic Product (GDP) were 27.2 per cent compared to the internationally acceptable 70 per cent,’’ he said, adding that the present value of external debt against GDP is 22.2per cent compared to the allowable maximum of 55 per cent. According to Dr Mpango, the government is determined to clear the public debt timely, noting that during the 2018/2019 fiscal year, the government allocated 1.41tri/- for payment of interest in internal debt and as of April 2019, 1.06tri/- had been paid, an equivalent of 75.18 per cent of the target. On external debt, 689.67bn/- was allocated and as of April 2019, 588.3bn-, equivalent to 85.3 per cent of the target, had been paid. In his 2019/2020 budget proposals, Dr Mpango outlined several priority areas that the ministry will consider towards improving payment systems for retirees, intensifying public private partnerships (PPPs), supervision of finance policy as well as coordinating grants and loans from development partners (DPs), among others. On collaboration with DPs, the minister said the ministry will continue implementing the Action Plan for execution of development cooperation framework as well as continue coordinating strategic dialogue at national level.