MEMBERS of the Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF) have been asked to have clear accounts of their contributions and employment records to reduce unnecessary inconveniences when processing their benefits. The call was made by PSSSF Chief Public Relations Officer, Ms Eunice Chiume in Dar es Salaam, yesterday when some officials from her unit carried out a familiarisation tour at the Tanzania Standard Newspapers Limited (TSN) headquarters. In conjunction to the visit, Ms Chiume assured members that the fund maintains a sufficient liquidity to meet its financial obligation. She was clearing up the air amid false media reports with claims that the pension fund has failed to pay up its pensioners. According to her, on several occasion initiatives have been taken to investigate such reports but behind the claims they often find faults which relates to the parties while processing their benefits. She also revealed that by March, this year PSSSF had cleared up to 1.2trl/- to pensioners the sum of which includes arrears. “Reports which involve the pension fund not having the ability to pay off its members are false...in most cases the delays are prompted to unresolved issues including verification process not being finalised,” said Ms Chihume. The Chief Public Relations Officer also disclosed that after the verification, some 227 pensioners had not been settled on grounds such as possessing fake certificates, criminal offences and disciplinary cases. She also pointed out that pensioners are required to verify their particulars and those of the dependents on annual basis as a way to minimize ghost payments. Between December and March this year there were about 10,500 pensioners who had not verified their information. Much as the deadline had expired on March 15, she called upon PSSSF pensioners who have not verified their information to do so to allow their particulars to be incorporated in the fund’s database. TSN Sales and Marketing Manager (SMM), Mr Januarius Maganga expressed recognition to the PSSF staff, calling upon them to subscribe to the company’s services which includes business forums, media products and digital publishing services.