ENDOWED with vast and beautiful national parks, game reserves, beaches, mountains and diverse cultural ethnic groups. Tanzania is truly a tourist destination whereby national parks such as Serengeti National Park, the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) and Mount Kilimanjaro has won three of the seven natural wonders of Africa. Not only that the Stonetown of Unguja is known all over the world for its history, culture and beautiful well kept white sandy beaches. Not only that, in the Indian ocean the United Republic of Tanzania is a very big country. Gifted with many islets Mafia and Kilwa are known to attract marine creatures such as the Black marlin and Sailfish which together they hold one of the fastest speed record on the Earth. These two big fish are known to cruise along the sea at the speed of 130 kilometers per hour. On the shore of Indian Ocean, Tanzania has one of the largest marine territories in East Africa which borders Kenya on the north. Comoros and Seychelles on the east and Mozambique on the south. It is within this territory where the spice island of Zanzibar is located. In the period between June and September of every year the coastal line witness the arrival of dolphins and other different species of marine mammals along the shores of Indian Ocean. These includes humpback whale which and blue whales which an adults range in length from 12 to 16 meters and weigh about 36,000 kilograms. The list of the visitors from the northern hemisphere includes the largest animal on Earth. The blue whale which weighs 200 tones. It is not yet known how many dolphins and whales visit Tanzania every year but scientists say as the temperature falls on the northern hemisphere, different species of whales and other large marine mammals sail to the southern hemisphere to find a resting place along warm waters of the Indian Ocean. The richness of the coastal line in Tanzania cannot be written in detail without mentioning of Coelacanth, an ancient marine mammal which was thought to be extinct about 66 million years ago. Before being rediscovered in different parts of the Indian ocean including the catch of an individual in Songamnara which was reported in September 2003. There has been other catches of this living fossil in Tanzania, these include Kigombe Tanga in 2004, Nungwi in Zanzibar and Pemba. Meanwhile until the end of 2007 the country reported more occurrences of this ancient creature than any other country in East Africa. Coelacanth are marine creatures of their own kind because they are more closely related to lungfish. Reptiles and mammals than to the common ray finned fishes which dwell along the coastlines of the Indian Ocean and Indonesia. Different reports show the world’s fourteenth largest country has an area which covers 1,904,569 square kilometers which includes forest reserve in Sumatra, Kalimantan and eight world heritage sites. Indonesia has the world’s second highest level of biodiversity after Brazil located in South America and covers a total area of 8,515,767 square kilometers. As the fifth largest country in the world Brazil and controls 60 percent of Amazon forest which covers 5,500,000 square kilometers in South America and lays on the tropics along with the world’s second rainforest the Congo forest in Africa. The rainforest is found within the Congo basin covering a total of 3.7 million square kilometers which includes the western circuit where Gombe and Mahale national parks. Kigosi, Moyowosi, Ugala, Rukwa, Lukwati, Uwanda and Luaf game reserves are located, covering about 4,470 square kilometers. Katavi national park is one of largest national park in Africa where African buffaloes are found in large number. Weighing 1,000 kilograms, the African or Cape buffalo is the second largest bovine just after the Asian water buffalo which weigh 1,200 kilograms but the African specie is widely available in different animal’s sanctuaries including Selous where the strongest contingent on Earth with more than 150,000 individuals are roaming freely. With an area covering about 50,000 square kilometers, Selous Game reserve is one of the largest game reserves in the world where 80,000 huge Nile crocodile and more than 40,000 hippopotamus are found in Rufiji river and different lakes including Tagalala, Segese, Mwanamtonga, Makube, Siwandu and Mzizima. Selous Game reserve has about 3,500 lions and form the largest population of these big cats in the country followed by Serengeti national park which harbor more than 3,000 individuals. Meanwhile these super predators are also found in other animal sanctuaries such as Manyara, Ngorongoro, Mikumi, Ruaha, Saadani, Mkomazi and others. Tanzania has one of the largest populations of African savannah elephant in the world. Although the largest terrestrial animal is facing sharp decline in different parts of Africa. The government is implementing different strategies to stop poaching in and around national parks and game reserves. The African Savannah Elephant may weigh between 5,000 and 8,000 kilograms while standing up to four meters high. Meanwhile the giraffe which also is found abundantly in Tanzania is the tallest land animal on Earth standing between 5 and 6 meters high. Tanzania is gifted with different species of antelopes including gerenuk a slander and tallest antelope which stands between 80 and 105 centimeters which is found in semi arid areas. An Oryx is a medium sized antelope which carries the second longest horn which measure between 100 and 147 centimeters long. While carrying tallest horns in the savannah, Greater Kudu has spiraled horns stretching 187.6 centimeters which add unparalleled value to Ruaha national park where one of the largest populations of these antelopes is found in Africa. With an area which covers more than 20,266 square kilometers. Ruaha is one of the largest national parks in Africa where Roan antelope another beautiful mammal which dwells majestically in the savannah with stunning horns measuring between 85 and 90 centimeters long. The United Republic of Tanzania is gifted with rare animals including cheetah with a top speed of 120 kilometers per hour on land. African leopard another beautiful big cat found in tropical savannah where different species of plants are found abundantly. All these facts enable the United Republic of Tanzania to join the likes of Indonesia, Brazil, and Democratic Republic of Congo on the list of countries with mega biodiversity in the world. We Tanzanians must be proud of our country and from individual to the national level take advantage of what the Almighty God has given us by supporting the government on it. Endeavor to utilize the rich natural resources of this beautiful country, meanwhile two weeks ago from this column we discussed how a strong national airline may play a big role in the economy of this country by increasing the number of tourists who will be visiting our national parks such as Kitulo, Udzungwa, Katavi, Mkomazi and others where rare animals such as oryx, gerenuk, Kori bustard and other beautiful animals thrive like nowhere in the world. With more than 14 wildlife management areas, 28 game reserves and 16 national parks, the United Republic of Tanzania has many attractions to offer than many other countries in Africa. Unlike other countries in the East Africa, from all its sides the United Republic of Tanzania is surrounded by prominent natural feature. With about 68,800 square kilometers lake Victoria is located on the northern part where 33,700 square kilometers or 49 percent of this largest lake in Africa is within our borders and according to different financial reports tourism industry contributes about 17 percent of the national income whereby national parks such as Mount Kilimanjaro, Serengeti, Tarangire, Lake Manyara, Gombe stream and Mahale mountain play an important role. In a strategic plan, the government embarked on a mission to utilize rich natural recourses which are available widely in the country and to achieve this important goal the national airline was equipped with new aircrafts including small, medium and those with high capacity, that was achieved by the purchasing of the three Bombardier Dash 8-Q400, these are regional aircrafts each with capacity of carrying 80 passengers whereby the business class has six seats and economy class with 70 seats. These were bought to feed major commercial centers such Dar es salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and Zanzibar with passenger from other important regions such as Mtwara, Songea, Mbeya, Dodoma, Tabora, Kigoma and Bukoba. The national airline has two Airbus 220-300 (CS300), aircrafts with each capacity of carrying 12 passengers in business class and 120 in economy class, the two medium size aircrafts were purchased for passengers from points where three Bombardier Dash 8-Q400 are not able to go, these are big commercial cities in neighboring countries such as Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi, DRC Congo, Zambia, Malawi and Mozambique. The government did not stop there, for long range Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner was bought with capacity of carrying 22 passengers in business class 22 and 240 economy, with latest technology in civil aircraft it was bought for international market where Tanzania depends on foreign airlines to bring tourists and business people and currently the national airline is planning to have long range route to the main sources of tourists in America, Europe, Far East and Australia and Middle East. rstanslaus@yahoo.com”