KAGERA Sugar Head Coach Mecky Mexime said they have to blame themselves for failing to record positive results against Pamba FC on Monday. The two teams played to a scoreless draw at Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza in the first leg of playoff match, as they seek Mainland Premier League slot next season. The reverse match is slated for Saturday at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, where the winner will be assured of a place into the top flight contest next season. On the other hand, Kagera Sugar who finished on 17th place on the league ladder with 44 points from 38 clashes will need to work hard and use their home ground advantage well so as to reappear in the league next season. Speaking after the match, Mexime said they had opportunity to finish the game at Nyamagana as they failed to use well numerous scoring chances they made. “The match was difficult for both teams but we still have another ninety minutes to play at our backyard. The chances we missed today (Monday) should be converted into goals on Saturday,” Mexime said. He said at the moment, they have no other option other than keenly preparing for the next battle against their opponents from Mwanza. In his remarks, Pamba FC Head Coach Mohamed Almas said football is played everywhere as such they still have belief to do well away from home. “We had chances to make a breakthrough but as the technical bench, we have pointed weaknesses in our team which we will work on ahead of Saturday’s match,” Almas said. He then revealed that they need to work on the striking force, midfield as well as defending department in order to win the next match and sail into the Premier League. Pamba finished second in their group B First Division League (FDL) with 42 points to win a ticket of playing in the two-leg playoff games. They outclassed Mbeya Kwanza 2-0 at Nyamagana Stadium to book a battle with Kagera Sugar who were the only side to beat twice the current champions Simba SC. Both teams are using this rare chance as the only channel to win promotion into the Mainland Premier League next term. Meanwhile, Mwadui FC will also be compelled to win their second leg playoff match at Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga against Geita Gold on Saturday to return to the top flight league. The two sides again recorded a goalless draw on Monday at Nyankumbu girls Stadium in Geita.