TANZANIA National Roads Agency (Tanroads) regional manager’s office is now mobilising funds to help restore street lights along the cross-border Arusha-Holili Highway. The agency responsible for maintenance and development of the trunk and regional road network in Tanzania Mainland Classified Road Network is said to be looking for 28mn/- to restore lights on some poles along the road. In an interview with this paper yesterday, Tanroads Regional Manager, Engineer Johnny Kalupale said some of the faulty street lights were as a result of being knocked down by reckless drivers who use the busy dual carriageway and vandals who steal and destroy the 1.8bn/- worth of street lights along the 14.2kilometers stretch. “Maintaining such a network of street lights is no mean feat, especially when you are at the mercy of vandals and reckless drivers,” he said. The Tanroads regional boss however admitted that his office was considering switching to solar energy in maintaining the lights, instead of procuring energy from the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company Limited (Tanesco). “It has proven to be a costly affair,” he said. The cost of maintaining all the street lights along the dual carriageway is estimated to be at Sh400, 000 a day, according to the engineer. In recent past, the national road agency had considered issuing out tender bids to prospective consultants interested in a project of maintaining the street lights. Investigations by this paper have established that the street lights on the busy dual carriageway highway have not been working for the last three months, plunging the Sakina-Tengeru stretch into total darkness, inconveniencing its users. Early last year, Tanroads regional manager’s office raised the flag on potential vandals who had cut the wire cables that connect to the street lights, plunging the stretch into darkness. The construction of a four-lane road linking Sakina section of Arusha City with Tengeru Township was aimed at easing congestion along Arusha-Moshi highway. The four-lane, two track motorway, is part of the implementation of the proposed multinational Arusha-Holili highway which is to extend into Kenya and join the Taveta-Voi road project under the East African Community (EAC).