THE East African Business Council (EABC), has condemned the reckless and xenophobic comments made by people it referred to as ‘some Members of Parliament (MPs)’ from Kenya. EABC Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Peter Mathuki, said here yesterday evening that the EABC was appalled by the utterances that went viral in social media in a video clip of Starehe MP, Charles Njagua and several others. Mr Mathuki, himself from Kenya, said the statements are unfortunate and unwarranted as they negate the spirit and gains of the EAC regional integration. He said the statements are not in line with the Treaty for the Establishment of the East African Community (EAC) and the EAC Common Market Protocol ratified by the Republic of Kenya. “To accelerate economic growth and development in the region, the EABC urges all the EAC Partner States, institutions and organs to continue maintaining a liberal stance towards the freedoms and rights as enshrined in the Common Market Protocol namely, Free Movement of Goods, Free Movement of Persons, Free Movement of Labour / Workers, Right of Establishment, Right of Residence, Free Movement of Services and Free Movement of Capital,” said the former East African Legislative Assembly (EALA), member. In 2017, Kenya’s exports to the EAC Partner States amounted to approximately USD 1.1 billion. Kenya’s exports to Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi respectively accounted for 54.5 percent, 24.8percent, 15.5percent and 5.3 percent. The total value of intra- EAC investments into Kenya amounted to USD25.2 million (EAC Trade and Investment Report, 2017). Total FDI inflows into Kenya amounted to US$ 717 million in 2017 as per investments registered by Kenya Investment Authority (KenInvest). He said that EAC citizens have the right to establish their businesses in any Partner State and pursue economic activities in accordance to the national laws of the Partner State, EAC Treaty, Protocols and remarks by the President of Kenya, Mr Uhuru Kenyatta in his various addresses to the nation and the region. The EABC commended the Republic of Kenya for reiterating their commitment to the EAC integration through a statement issued by the Ministry of EAC and Regional Development, and further urged all Partner States to continue adhering to operational principles of the Community. The principals, he said, are non-discriminatory of nationals of other Partner States on grounds of nationality; equal treatment to nationals of other Partner States; ensure transparency in matters concerning the other Partner States and share information for the smooth implementation of the EAC Protocols. EABC is the regional apex body of private sector associations and corporates from the six East African countries. It was established in 1997 to foster the interests of the private sector in the integration process of the EAC.