THE parliament yesterday dismissed as unfounded allegations that some lawmakers were bribed to reject several legislations lined up for amendment this week. Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly Dr Tulia Ackson said the law making organ was not aware that 40 Members of Parliament (MPs) attended a capacity building seminar by Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) over the weekend. A section of the mainstream media reported that some MPs attended the seminar and they were allegedly bribed to block the yet to be tabled amendments. According to media reports, the seminar sought to equip the lawmakers with what it takes for them to effectively debate the contentious bill that will redefine the NGOs operations in Tanzania. But, Dr Ackson said the seminar had not been reported at the speaker’s office, distancing the parliament from any blame. This comes at a time when the government is flexing its legal muscles to table the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) No.3 Bill of 2019 in Parliament, seeking to create a clear difference in meaning (and therefore operations) of a company on one side and an NGO as well as a society on the other. The move has created tension within several civil society organisations (CSOs), which fear that they might end operations in the country. But, in what can be described as fear of the unknown, the amendments are yet to be brought in the debating chamber. According to a statement by a consortium of CSOs here over the weekend, the amendments will affect the Companies Act, Cap. 212, the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights Act, Cap. 218, the Films and Stage Plays Act, Cap. 230, the NGOs, Act Cap. 56, the Societies Act, Cap. 337, the Statistics Act Cap.351, the Tanzanian Shipping Agencies, Act Cap.415 and the Trustees’ Incorporation Act Cap.318. The ‘Daily News’ understands that over 30 NGOs met in Dodoma on Saturday and issued the statement, describing the amendments as a stumbling block to Tanzania’s development efforts. The meeting was followed by the seminar on Sunday, last week, with over 40 MPs attending. But, the deputy speaker said that the meeting was not recognised because the organisers did not inform the office of the speaker. After the questions and answers session yesterday, some MPs rose, seeking the speaker’s guidance in regard to the matter, insisting that the newspapers had defamed them and ‘disrespected’ the legislative body. They further asked the deputy speaker to summon the newspapers before the Parliamentary Privileges Committee for intensive grilling. Special Seats MP Salome Makamba (CHADEMA) stood up, seeking the speaker’s guidance, saying the ‘contentious publications’ had acted in a manner that was in contempt of the legislative body and deserved interrogation. “Yesterday, the parliament invited 40 MPs to the capacity building seminar on the bill. It’s shameful that some media outlets and social media platforms are reporting that the MPs have been bribed to thwart the passing of the bill,” she said, asking the deputy speaker’s guidance on what the legislative body should do against the publications. However, the deputy speaker said that those who were aggrieved had a chance to seek legal redress.