IN efforts to support government endeavours in reducing maternal deaths in the country, Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), has set up an Intensive Care Unit (ICU), in the maternity ward to provide critical care to women with life-threatening conditions such as eclampsia. According to medical experts, eclampsia is a condition in which one or more convulsions occur in a pregnant woman suffering from high blood pressure, often followed by coma and posing a threat to the health of mother and baby. MNH Head of Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, Dr Vincent Tarimo said yesterday in Dar es Salam that the setting up of the Maternity Intensive Care Unit (MAICU), has helped women in need of the service to access it from within their building. He said that before the unit was established, women who needed the care were taken to a normal ICU, which was about 150 meters from the maternity ward, a situation that threatened lives of both the mother and child. Dr Tarimo said the ICU in the maternity ward with a capacity of ten beds is also equipped with five breathing machines and an ultrasound machine. He said many lives have been saved with the availability of the MAICU, noting that it has helped to reduce the number of maternal deaths from 125 in 2017/2018 to 86 by June this year. “Through these efforts, MNH has continued to contribute and implement the government objectives and the Millennium Development Goal of reducing maternal deaths...this development has made MNH the first public hospital to have maternity ICU,” Dr Tarimo said. He further explained that MNH has made major reforms in improving its infrastructure, especially for patients in need of intensive care by increasing the number of beds from 25 to 78. Dr Tarimo detailed that the national hospital has Intensive Care Units with bed capacity in brackets, for Neonates (NICU), (18), Paediatric (PICU) (12), Medical ICU (15), Surgical ICU (18) and an ICU for patients who have undergone kidney transplant with five beds. He observed that the World Health Organization (WHO), requires hospitals to have 10 percent of all beds for ICU, “MNH has 1,500 beds, therefore it is supposes to have 155 beds for ICU, and currently it has 78 beds, which is equivalent to 50 per cent of the WHO ‘s requirement. The government through the Ministry of Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children has set out various plans to improve ICU in referral and regional hospitals. “The availability of critical care service at MNH will help experts from different parts of the country to learn better ways of setting up and operate an ICU for different groups,” he said. In another development, the national hospital has renovated several wards in Mwaisela building and installed oxygen system with a capacity of 28 beds for High Dependency Unit (HDU). MNH Head of Midwifery and Reproductive Health Department, Sr Mugara Mahungururo said medical experts were working hard in order to attain the SDGs since women’s health has direct link with the attainment of some goals of eradicating poverty, fight hunger and improve health and education services. She said the ICU has helped a lot in saving lives of women who were facing life- threatening conditions. According to Tanzania Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey 2015/16, maternal mortality ratio is 556 deaths per 100,000 live births. This is equivalent to 11,000 deaths in a year and 30 deaths every day. The government has set a target of reducing maternal deaths to 292 from the current 556 deaths per 100,000 live births by 2020