Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has issued a 12-month ultimatum to Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Iringa, Njombe, Mbeya, Rukwa, Singida and Shinyanga regional authorities to prepare regional investment blueprints to guide members of the public in investment issues. He also directed all regions and councils to take a leaf from Kahama in establishing own business centres and implement the government plan to empower people economically. He made directives when officiating at the eighth National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC) symposium in Dodoma yesterday. As for regions, which already have such plans, the Premier stressed effective implementation to promote strategies and various economic em-powerment opportunities being highlighted. “Economic empowerment is a across-cutting issue, which requires proper coordination, supervision and time-to-time assessment to be able to benefit people through loans and capital, among other factors,” said Mr Majaliwa. The Premier also urged specific bodies to collaborate with the private sector, civil society organisations (CSOs) and individuals to ensure their policies,plans and daily operations prioritised people’s economic empowerment. On the other hand, stakeholders have been directed to submit reports of their operations to NEEC which is under the Prime Minister’s Office to help government’s current and major plans. “The government recognises the contribution of development partners, CSOs and individuals as they are working on behalf of the government, therefore, their reports are very important,” he said. He called upon the empowerment authorities to utilise opportunities of economic empowerment pinpointed in UNDP studies and ensure major projects on economic empowerment resulted from the studies. The PM called upon NEEC to coordinate all public and private sector empowerment funds in the country and know their number, the nature of operations and find out whether the beneficiaries were aware and benefitted from them. The office pledged to make a close follow-up to ensure all directives are effectively implemented in line with the National Development Vision 2025, the country’s Five Year Development Plan (FYDP) and the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).