THE Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF) has embarked on gathering inputs from stakeholders for the development of the Private Sector Development Strategy (PSDS) 2018-2022 of the East African Community (EAC). The strategy aims at creating a conducive business environment that facilitates the country’s private sector competitiveness for increased investment, productivity and trade in the region. Collection of the inputs to the development of the document is part of the implementation of phase II of the project of Promoting Agriculture Climate and Trade Linkages in the East African Community (PACT EAC2). Yesterday, ESRF convened a stakeholders’ meeting that would identify gaps in PSDS 2006 and provide a way forward for the promotion of the private sector involvement in the agro-processing sector during the implementation of the new strategy. ESRF Executive Director, Dr Tausi Kida, challenged stakeholders to think around three issues, including whether the agro-processing was given due consideration in PSDS 2006. Dr Kida tasked the experts to assess whether the document contained relevant aspects of trade, climate change and food security. “What other provisions on each of these issues should have been included and hence be considered in the new PSDS?” she asked, noting that a discussion around that areas would generate recommendations on the PSDS provisions that strategically focused on climate, trade and food security challenges facing agro-processing. Ms Diana Makule, a representative of the Prime Minister’s Office at the meeting, said Tanzania had considered PSDS 2006 in its national development policies, including the Government Development Vision 2025 and others. For her part, Ms Martha Ngalowera from the Vice President Office, called on the private sector players to ensure that they advocated inclusion in the new PSDS in organic agro-product marketing. She argued that the agro-product marketing was the agent of retaining the soil value to boost the EAC economy as well as every EAC member state. She further urged the private sector to convert the agro-by product materials into alternative efficient energy such as biofuel, biogas and briquettes.