THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), in partnership with the Embassy of Switzerland and Netherlands are implementing a special integrity project worth over 800m/-to step up the fight against graft in the country. Such good news was announced in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the Director General of PCCB, Commissioner of Police (CP), Diwani Athumani, noting that the project includes the production of a film dubbed ‘BAHASHA’. According to the Commissioner, the content of the film is in Kiswahili because the country aims to portray the image of how ethical violation contributes to corruption. Also, the film portrays the effects of acts of corruption for individuals and the whole society in a way aimed at changing the perception and behaviors of people not to shield corruption. “Based on the importance of the knowledge being imparted in the film, we agreed to screen the film in this year’s Uhuru Torch race in major cities and towns in the country in the presence of a large gathering,” said Mr Athumani. He pointed out that from May 6, 2017 when the Uhuru Torch race was launched, the film has been screened in areas including Geita and Chato District (Geita), Muleba District (Kagera) and Kahama District (Shinyanga). Others are Ilemela and Nyamagana districts (Mwanza) and Arumeru District in Arusha Region. The screening usually takes place during the eve of Uhuru Torch race, where he noted that the people’s turn out had been very encouraging in all the areas. It is estimated that around 9,000 people turned out to watch and learn from the content of the film. Besides watching the film, people also got an opportunity to ask questions and receive answers as well as give their views to contribute in the fight against the vice. “Among the responses we have been receiving from people includes getting a deeper understanding on how it affects access to corruption in the society. “It’s quite appealing to learn that the public is aware of the importance of partnering with PCCB and the government in fighting graft,” he said. The outgoing Ambassador of Switzerland to Tanzania and Zambia, Ms Florence Mattli disclosed that fighting corruption requires a strong political will. “There is a strong political will and action among the leadership of President John Magufuli, and we congratulate him on the efforts. “His commitment alone is not enough, it needs the participation of everyone, including the media and civil society because corruption is stealing from every one and is taking away the privileges of acquiring better services,” she said. She pointed out that the film is about how daily life and petty corruption is affecting people including innocent children. Ms Mattli said the film has been screened through social media, DVDs and at the parliament last year when the speaker introduced it to parliamentarians.