THE government introduced free education policy has started bearing fruits beyond its main objective, which is to have every child in the country accessing education, a study in Kilimanjaro region has shown. Conducted by Dr Joachim Kessy of Moshi based Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College (KCMUCo), in Kilimanjaro region, the research showed that parents have decided to use the money they used to pay for school fees for other essential expenditures. According to Dr Kessy, the study got its findings following a research which involved clients of the Micro finance Institutions (MFIs) in Moshi Urban, which involved 101 MFIs and 916 women. “Several studies have acknowledged MFIs as an effective strategy to address poverty through provision of small loans to low income individuals, especially women, most of whom are excluded from the formal financial sector,” said Dr Kessy. According to Dr Kessy, the study showed that some of the Tanzanian women who are the potential clients of the MFIs shouldered hugely disproportionate burdens of paying school fees for their children, caring for the sick, poor health and inequality. “These challenges have led to many women to join the MFIs with the intention of getting income through loans, which will enable them to curb the social challenges facing their families,” says Dr Kessy. According to Dr Kessy, the study continued to show that before the introduction of the free education policy, most of the women who were subject to MFIs loans used the loaned money to finance the education of their children, something which they used to find more important as far as their families’ daily lives were concerned. “Women registered their concerns that spending loans for education, health and other non-financial related services impaired their business growth and subjected them to repayment pressure,” he said. According to Dr Kessy, the introduction of free education policy in Tanzania have started and may continue to reduce the pressure from women’s conflicting social and business needs, enabling them to spend their loans more prudently. “Because of free education policy, MFIs clients may now use their loans to expand their businesses, pay for health care when needed and improve other social needs like water and sanitation in their respective homes,” he said.