PLANS are underway to massively promote beach tourism in a bid to increase tourist arrivals in the country, Natural Resources and Tourism Minister, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, has said. Dr Kigwangalla made the disclosure here during a recent event to inaugurate newly appointed Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), pointing out that the country has great potential in beach tourism. “The plan to promote beach tourism is in line with strategic plan to encourage tourists increase a number of days spent in the country,” said the Minister during the newly appointed TTB inauguration ceremony. Dr Kigwangalla said TTB should increase promotion of tourism attractions available in the country to the countries set as strategic by TTB, pointing out the countries as Australia, Russia, China, India and gulf countries. “Some of the gulf countries have historical ties with our country. TTB can make use of the advantage to attract more visitors from the countries. Some of the countries share same cultures with us,” he observed. The Minister reminded the board over talks with Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) to introduce direct flight from Australia to Tanzania to increase a number of tourists from the Far East country. “I am not aware of the progress of talks with ATCL. But, the ATCL can play a great role in the matter to attract more visitors from Australia,” said Dr Kigwangalla. TTB Board Chairman, Judge (rtd) Thomas Mihayo, said TTB has registered great achievements for the past three years, saying TTB has recently facilitated to attract more than 1,000 tourists from Israel. “We have managed to trim down debt facing TTB from 5.2bn/- to 1.2bn/- for the past three years,” he added. Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Mr Constantine Kanyasu, commended TTB for great achievements, saying country has witnessed fast growth of tourism for the past three years under the current board. “We are proud of TTB for bringing much praises to the ministry of natural resources and tourism,” said the Deputy Minister.