TRANSFER fever has gripped Mainland Premier League clubs including giants Simba and Young Africans, it is a hot battle for signatures of quality players and retaining those seen the best. Azam FC and KMC are also slowly coming into picture of signing new players to strengthen their squads ahead of both, the coming league season and CAF inter-club championships. With the exercise gaining pace, Yanga have been the most active side as it is reported that they have already signed at least eight new foreign players. Immediately after the window was opened, Yanga wasted no time in bolstering their squad and have already unveiled eight new signing including Ghanaian Lamine Moro from Bidco FC of Zambia, Rwandese duo Patrick Sibomana and Issa Bigirimana from APR, Namibian Sadney Urikhob (Free), Burundian Mustapha Suleyman from Aigle Noir FC, Zambian Maybin Kalengo from Zesco FC and Kenyan Farouq Shikhalo from Bandari FC. However, the Jangwani street based side has yet to secure contract extension of some of their key players such as Ibrahim Ajib, Abdallah Shaibu and others whose current contracts with the club are about to expire. Ajib’s fate is yet to be known and he is reported to have turned down Congolese side TP Mazembe’s offer and rumours suggest that he is on his way back to his former side Simba. While Yanga are the most active in the ongoing transfer window, their traditional rivals Simba who are the league champions for two consecutive seasons and Azam are a bit slow in the process, opting to work silently in bolstering their squad ahead of the new season. Bit by bit, Simba are releasing details on the extension of contracts with key players including skipper John Bocco, first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, versatile defender Erasto Nyoni and midfielder, Jonas Mkude. However, the fate of some of foreign players such as Ghanaian midfielder James Kotei, Rwandese midfielder, Haruna Niyonzima and Ugandan striker Emmanuel Okwi is not clear but the club is keeping tabs to keep them. Kotei is reportedly to be in the radar of South Africa football giants Kaizer Chiefs and the club manager, Bobby Motaung is said to have already made contact with the Simba management, while Okwi is said to have received several offers from various clubs in Africa. The Msimbazi Reds are yet officially announce any new signing to-date, although there some reports that Simba are tracking Zambia’s Nkana FC ace striker Walter Bwalya, Kenyan midfielder, Francis Kahata from Gor Mahia and Uganda Premier League top scorer, Juma Balinya who features for Uganda Police FC. However, speaking yesterday the club Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Crecentious Magori said that registration of quality local and foreign players and retaining best players both foreign and local as recommended by the technical bench was progressing well. Magori said within the next ten days, the club will be done with the list of newly signed foreign based players. “We want to recruit top quality players, who will help the club in Mainland Premier League and CAF Champions League campaigns. The registration will strictly follow recommendations made by the technical bench,” Magori insisted. Azam FC, who are the country’s envoys in CAF Confederation Cup, after winning the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) are also yet to disclose any new signings and they have only made contract extension of some key players. The vital move the ‘ice cream makers’ club has made recently, is to recruiting Burundian tactician Etienne Ndayiragije, as their Head Coach. Ndayiragije joined Azam from another topflight side KMC, which has also secured first ever chance to be country’s representative in the CAF Confederation Cup.