NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta said their safe landing in Egypt has added extra hope in the team’s squad ahead of their busy Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) schedule. Stars were the first team to arrive in Egypt prior to the continent’s biggest football event slated to start on June 21st to July 19th this year. From today, only 11 days are remaining before 24 teams commence battling up for the African glory whose reigning champions is Cameroon. According to schedule, Taifa Stars who have camped in Alexandria, will play a friendly match against the hosts Egypt on June 13th before taking on Zimbabwe three days later in their last build up battle as recommended by Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike. However, speaking immediately after landing in Egypt, Samatta said morale among the players in the squad has doubled and people should expect a good show from them. “As I speak now, we have just landed at the Airport and all of us are fine just looking forward to our two friendly matches. We already started preparations back in Dar es Salaam and the upcoming two build up clashes are just continuation of our gearing up,” Samatta said. In his remarks, the team’s defender G adiel Michael called upon Tanzanians to rally behind them insisting that they have capacity to do wonders. “We are here to compete and not to participate. They should just believe in us and we will do good job for them,” Michael said. The statement released by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) on Saturday said Taifa Stars conducted their first training on the day at Egypt’s Movenpick Stadium. A few days before jetting off, Stars’ coach Amunike said winning the first match in any competition helps a lot to boost the team ahead of other coming games. “We will open our AFCON campaign against Senegal. According to me, Senegal are the best team in Africa so far with great players but we still have our own good players who can equally produce the demanded results,” he said. After facing off Senegal on June 23rd, Stars will take on Kenya on June 27th in an all East African affair which has already been deemed as the epic match in group C. The group stage tie for Stars will be wrapped up on July 1st by facing Algeria. Stars full squad: G oalkeeper; Aishi Manula (Simba), Metacha Mnata (Mbao), Suleiman Salula (Malindi) and Aaron Kalambo (Tanzania Prisons). Defenders; Claryo B oniface (U20), Hassan Kessy (Nkana, Zambia), V incent Philipo (Mbao), Mohammed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni (Simba), Kelvin Yondan, G ardiel Michael (Yanga), Abdi B anda (B aroka, South Africa), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli), David Mwantika and Aggrey Morris (Azam). Midfielders; Feisal Salum (Yanga), Himid Mao (Petrojet, Egypt), Frank Domayo, Mudathir Yahya (Azam), Shiza Kichuya (ENNPI, Egypt), Simon Msuva (Difaa Hassan El-Jadidi Morocco), Farid Mussa (Tenerife, Hispania) and Freddy Tangalu (Lipuli). Strikers; Yahya Zayd (Ismailia, Egypt), Shaaban Iddi Chilunda (Tenerife, Spain), Rashid Mandawa (B DF, B otswana), Miraj Athumani (Lipuli), Kelvin John (Serengeti B oys), Adi Yussuf (B lackpool, England), John B occo (Simba), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura, Algeria) and skipper Mbwana Samatta (KRC G enk, B elgium). Meanwhile, Taifa Stars will earn $4 .5 million in prize money if they are able to win the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The Confederation of African Football confirmed in April 2019 that a total of $14 .2 million would be shared between the best eight teams at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in the form of prize money. If a team gets knocked out from the quarter- final, such a country will be rewarded with $ 800,000. The beaten semi-finalists who contest the third-place play-off will share $4 m, with each getting $ 2m. The 2019 AFCON final is a $7m game and the winners will be paid $4 .5m with the runners-up pocketing $2.5m.