LARGE-SCALE reforms as proposed in the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve business and investment environment will begin next month, the government has said. The Permanent Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Coordination and Investments), Ms Doroth Mwaluko, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the government had already started implementation of the reforms but holistic reforms would begin on 21st of July. “The Blueprint states a key task in this regard is to enhance a more conducive business environment by carrying out holistic regulatory reforms. It seeks to put in place a framework for addressing regulatory hurdles and create a smart, functional and fair business regulatory regime in Tanzania,” she said during the launching of the 60th annual report and Annual General Meeting of the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE). She said reforms as recommended in the blueprint would seek to streamline operations of regulatory agencies which will help to reduce overlapping and multiplication of their responsibilities. Streamlining operations of some regulatory agencies would also relieve businesses of unnecessary charges they incurred to remain compliant, she said. She said implementation of the reforms would boost profitability and growth of businesses which would most likely lead to expansions and hence more job and trade opportunities would be available. She said the aim of the government is to strengthen cooperation among employees in the country and urged them to address their challenges to the government through its various institutions to get solutions for improvements of the country’s climate of business sector. On his side the ATE’s Executive Director, Dr Aggrey Mlinuka said implementation of the reforms was good news to employee and investors as well as the traders in general. He further mentioned that the other major challenge facing the country’s employment sector is lack of enough local skilled human resources. In order to achieve industrialization goal, the government and the private sectors need to cooperate to invest in getting skilled human resources. “It is the responsibility of employers to provide training of improving skills to their employees. Many local youths have no required skills to be employed that is why they are not competent to compete with foreigners in employment sector,” he said.