THE day has finally come, after missing it for 39 years, national team Taifa Stars make their return to the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals today. Taifa Stars begin their campaign today against Senegal’s Lions of Teranga at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo. The match will kick off at 20:00 (EAT). Stars are housed in Group C with Algeria, Kenya’s Harambee Stars and Senegal. On paper, Taifa Stars, who are the lowest FIFA ranked side in Group C (131), are not expected to provide much of a challenge to the talented Senegal group, who remained unbeaten throughout the qualification campaign. However, in football anything can happen and Stars are capable of challenging the Sadio Mane less Senegalese and walk out with maximum points. On the chances of his team, Stars Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike is upbeat they can make an impact despite the pedigree of their opponents. “We have to be realistic. All teams who made it here are all good and no team came here without fighting. If you are here, you must be ready to play anyone. You can’t wish for an easy group. All 24 teams are tough,” he noted. Amunike said his charges are well prepared tactically and psychologically, insisting that the spirit is high in camp going into the game today. He is well aware that they will be up against the top ranked team in Africa according to latest FIFA rankings but said they are not worried and ready for the challenge. Senegal are ranked top in the continental and are placed 22nd in the FIFA World rankings, while Algeria are placed 11th in CAF and 68th globally. Kenya are placed 105th and Tanzania are settled 131st in the world rankings released recently by the world football governing body. Going into the game today, Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta said they respect Senegal but assured Tanzanians that the team is well drilled and ready for the battle. “We are well focused and prepared for the finals… we will keep our feet on the ground and take each match seriously,” said the Belgium based KRC Genk striker. Former Nigeria international and U-17 coach, Henry Nwosu, believes the Taifa Stars can impress in the AFCON tournament. “Although it is too early to predict if they will come out from the group but I am sure they can spring up surprises in the tournament. They are young boys and talented,” he said. Senegal Head Coach Alliou Cisse said his side will not underrate Taifa Stars. Cisse said his side will adopt a match-by-match approach at the finals with the aim to do better than the quarter-finals outing at the last edition in Gabon in 2017. The former Senegal defender is one of few coaches who will be making back-to-back appearances, from the last time. “We cannot underestimate Tanzania and Kenya despite their status. We must also prepare well to properly approach the competition. “It is a balanced group for my team. Currently, there are no more small or big teams. All qualified teams will be in Egypt to fight and try to achieve the best possible result,” said Cisse. Stars received a major boost, as right wing back Hassan Kessy has been given a green light by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), to feature for today’s clash. “The technical bench has been given a go ahead by CAF to utilise the service of the rightback, after it was initially reported that he will be ineligible to play after accumulating two yellow cards in the qualifying campaign,” Ndimbo said. Senegal will be without their key striker, Sadio Mane due to a suspension. The Liverpool superstar will sit out the West Africans’ first Group C fixture after picking up two yellow cards during the qualifying campaign. Mane picked up a yellow card in Senegal’s 1-0 victory against Equatorial Guinea in Malabo on November 17, with CAF also recording another booking in a 2-0 victory over Madagascar on March 23. “His absence should not in any way bother us,” coach Cisse said, adding “Certainly the presence of Sadio is beneficial but without him we remain strong. CAF have decided, so we will not linger on the subject.”