THE government has said from now onwards screening and diagnosis for dengue fever will be provided freely at all public hospitals, as it maintains that cases of the disease have reportedly gone down. According to Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu (pictured) new infections went down from 2,494 reported in May 2019 to 818 cases as of June 19, 2019. “So far, as of June 19, 2019,” the minister said, “there are 4,320 patients, who were diagnosed with Dengue fever, while those, who died from the disease are four.” Ms Mwalimu, who was presenting a report on the state of the disease in the country in Parliament yesterday, said from now onwards diagnosis would be provided freely at all public health facilities, adding that the government would equally improve health services, including providing medical supplies to all health facilities. In April this year, the government announced an outbreak of the mosquito-borne dengue fever in Dar es Salaam and Tanga regions. The disease further spread into other regions, but until yesterday, Dar es Salaam had the highest number of patients (4,029) and three deaths. Other regions are Dodoma which had three patients and one death, Tanga (207 patients), Pwani (57 patients), Morogoro (16 patients), Arusha (3 patients), Singida (2 patients) and Kagera (2 patients). Dengue fever causes severe headache and muscle and joint pains. There is no treatment. Dengue is a human virus transmitted primarily by the mosquito Aedes aegypti, which is commonly found around homes and the workplace. The transmission cycle for dengue is human - mosquito - human. The World Mosquito Programme’s research has shown that when Wolbachia is introduced into the mosquito, it reduces its ability to transmit dengue between people, as well as other Aedes aegyptiborne diseases such as Zika, chikungunya and yellow fever. Despite ongoing efforts being made by the government to kill all mosquitoes as well as putting up special centres for treating the disease, people should take precautionary measures to ensure they clean their surroundings and destroy breeding habitats to reduce mosquitoes in their areas. Ms Mwalimu told the National Assembly yesterday that the government had so far taken various measures to deal with the disease, including killing mosquitoes and already the government had procured 60,000 litres of biolarvicides from the Kibahabased factory. Other measures include establishing a taskforce for dealing with mosquitoes in all district councils especially those with the highest prevalence level of dengue fever and malaria. They are Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Pwani, Morogoro, Lindi, Mtwara, Kigoma, Geita and Kagera. “In ensuring that there is proper screening of the disease, the government has already procured 30,000 diagnostic equipment and we have equally drafted and distributed proper guidelines on the treatment of the disease at all treatment centres,’’ she noted.