TANZANIAN,Rwandan and Burundian energy ministers are satisfied with the implementation of the Regional Rusumo Falls Hydroelectric Project (RRFHP) and are hopeful that the project will be completed within the given timeframe. The over 1tr/- project is expected to be completed on February 13, next year. Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani, said the extra ordinary council meeting of ministers was happy with the project progress made so far and tasked the board of directors to ensure the project is completed on time. "We have been satisfied with the progress that has been made so far. However, we have tasked the board of directors to closely supervise the contractor and ensure he works day and night to complete it on or before February 13, 2020. We rejected his request for time extension," he said. The extra ordinary council meeting of ministers was held in Rusumo on the Tanzania-Rwanda border in Kagera Region on Friday for fast tracking the implementation of the project. Apart from Dr Kalemani, other ministers were Rwandan Minister for Infrastructure Claver Gatete and Burundian Minister for Hydraulic, Energy and Mines Come Manirakiza. According to Dr Kalemani, the implementation of the project now stands at 47 per cent, while completed works include power house (100 per cent),tunnel fitting (100 per cent) and switch yard (99 per cent). The minister said completion of the project would enhance regional cooperation, peace building and support sustainable management of Kagera River Basin, promote growth and help reduce poverty and environmental management. The project is financed by the World Bank and is estimated to cost about $340m for the power plant, while the African Development Bank financed about $128.6m for transmission lines. The project will increase 80MW to the national grids of Rwanda, Tanzania and Burundi. The generated electricity will be shared equally among the three countries, each benefitting about 26.6MW directly connected to the national grid through the transmission lines. It is expected to benefit 1,146,000 people in the three countries: 5.4 per cent (520,000) in Burundi, 4 per cent (467,000) in Rwanda and 0.34 per cent (159,000) in Tanzania. Improved access to renewable clean energy will substitute thermal generation and lead to an increase in economic activities as well as private sector development in agriculture and processing, water supply, health, education, commerce and tourism. This project will also lead to an increase in improved access to renewable clean energy, will have positive effects on the environment and contribute to foreign exchange savings and improved balance of payments since the power generated will replace imported petroleum products. The three countries jointly mandated Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Programme Coordination Unit (NELSAP-CU) to coordinate the development of studies and later the implementation of the Regional Rusumo Falls Hydroelectric Project. The Rusumo Falls was identified as a potential area for hydropower generation as early as the 1970s to address inadequate energy, which is one of the major socioeconomic development challenges. Rwanda has the current electricity access of 46 per cent and targets to increase to 100 per cent by 2024 through connecting additional 2.4 million households. Tanzania has the current electricity access of 67 per cent with household connectivity at 32 per cent. Burundi’s current electricity access stands at 10 per cent. However, most of the households in the region still rely on wood for their cooking and heating needs, leading to extensive deforestation and soil erosion.