AS the days were counting down to June 1st, European media reported the hiking of prices in hotels and flights to Madrid, ahead of Champions League final match. But all in all, football has its own flavour that every soccer fan won’t afford to miss. Finally, fans of the English clubs; Liverpool and Tottenham travelled all the way from England and other parts of the world, to watch another UCL final involving both teams from England. The last time English clubs met in the final stage of the elite European clubs competition was in 2007- 2018, when Chelsea played against Manchester United at Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow, Russia. The United won the encounter on spot kicks after a 1-1 draw in a regulation time. While Liverpool fans where celebrating the club’s sixth UEFA Champions League title in Madrid, Spain, their Tanzanian counterparts were engaged with throngs at culmination of 2019 UEFA Champions League (UCL), final between the Anfield side and Tottenham Hotspur. Bongo Flavor artist, Raymond Mwakyusa ‘Rayvanny’ surprised the nearly 2,000 fans at Next Door Arena in Masaki, Dar es Salaam with superb show as Mohamed ‘Mo’ Salah and Divock Origi netted in the 2nd and 87th minutes respectively, to sink Tottenham Hotspurs who dominated the game. In the event, Tanzanian football fans shared in the moment, at various outlets across the country, where Heineken presented the biggest viewing parties ever. Thanks to broadcasting technologies and accessories that brought together fans all from different parts of the world, with common interest-football! As fans were discussing the controversial penalty given to Liverpool at a just 2nd minute of the match, which Mohamed ‘Mo’ Salah converted to a first goal for the newly crowned champs. Rayvanny stole the show to please supporters who were behind Tottenham with his Tetema hit. Many fans, at the venue, were praying for Spurs to win the trophy because of two reasons: Firstly, the London side was the underdog who reached the final stage for the first time. Secondly, other English club fans led by Manchester United, did not want their arch-rivals Liverpool to win the sixth trophy. Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester City fans were against Liverpool as well. The Heineken viewing parties, besides the main showpiece, which was the UEFA Champions League final. Also featured chances to win awesome Heineken merchandise and a surprise live performance from Wasafi artist Rayvanny. Tetema Liverpool! was his refrain as he was performing in front of fans, who joined him at a stage to celebrate the lead and eventually the win. “The core focus for Heineken is to bring unique experiences to fans of UEFA Champions League in Tanzania. As the most prestigious platform for European football stars, this premier-sporting event has become global and fits perfectly with the Heineken brand,” said Lungisa Adams, the Heineken Tanzania Country Manager. “Both clubs played an excellent game,” Lungisa said. “Both almost went out in the group stage, and now one of them emerged victorious. It was truly an epic match.” Heineken has been a big part of football for the last 25 years, particularly by sponsoring the UEFA Champions League. During this time, Lungisa said, the brand has been giving our fans the opportunity to connect with club football’s biggest competition, while also rewarding their passion by taking some lucky few to Europe in the past. The #ShareUnmissableMoments consumer campaign in Tanzania is just another way for us to delivering on the brand promise.” Through the course of the UEFA Champions League season, Heineken has continued its remarkable tradition of celebrating the beautiful game with fans, bringing all the action from Europe to Tanzanians more than 5,000 miles away with its premium viewing experiences. Heineken has been a longstanding sponsor of the UEFA Champions League since 1994. This illustrious collaboration with club football’s biggest and most watched competition has seen Heineken become one of the most recognizable brands in the world of football. Over the Last 25 years, we’ve seen the brand share the passion of the beautiful game while bringing all the most remarkable and Unmissable Moments from the competition to fans around the world. The Dutch brewer is a keen sponsor of global sports tournaments, and unlike other industry players, steers clear from sponsoring specific teams. “Both these great clubs played an excellent game,” Lungisa said. “Both almost went out in the group stage and now one emerged victorious. It was truly an epic match.” Heineken has been a big part of football for the last 25 years, particularly by sponsoring the UEFA Champions League. During this time, Lungisa said, the brand has been giving our fans the opportunity to connect with club football’s biggest competition, while also rewarding their passion by taking some lucky few to Europe in the past. The #ShareUnmissableMoments consumer campaign in Tanzania is just another way for us to delivering on the brand promise.” Through the course of the UEFA Champions League season, Heineken has continued its remarkable tradition of celebrating the beautiful game with fans. Bringing all the action from Europe to Tanzania more than 5,000 miles away with its premium viewing experiences. Heineken has been a longstanding sponsor of the UEFA Champions League since 1994. This illustrious collaboration with club football’s biggest and most watched competition has seen Heineken become one of the most recognizable brands in the world of football. Satisfaction and dissatisfaction A Tottenham supporter identified by only one name, Leyla, came all the way from Tabata to the Next Door Arena to join other fans who share the UCL moment was not satisfied by referee decision to award Liverpool the 2nd minute penalty. She opined that, the referee determined who will win the battle and turned the game to be ‘cool’. But she was happy with Spurs’ domination in the match as well as meeting with friends, who had the common interest on soccer. Liverpool fan, Michael Sungu from Mbezi Beach in Kinondoni, differed with Leyla, saying the referee was fair in the whole game and his side deserved the win. Despite their differences, the dual and other fans joined together to ‘Let not Liverpool Walk Alone.’