Students at Moshono Secondary School yesterday marked the World Environment Day with environmental activity by planting 20 different species of trees in their institution. In the course, they were joined by other students from other schools and planted more than 20,000 trees in 15 different Secondary Schools in Arusha Municipality being supervised by the Oikos TERRA Project. A Community Development Officer with Oikos, an Italian organisation which promotes the protection of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources as tools to fight against poverty and boost socio-economic development, Ms Rebecca Elias said that the three year project would see the students planting the trees to fight Climate Change. Placed in the area of Northern Tanzania, the NGO also seeks to increase communities’ resilience to climate change, with her pointing out that: “Global warming is real and it is already poses costly effects on our communities, our health, and our climate, these students are a perfect choice in spearheading the campaign.” She further said that through the campaign, students are able to acknowledge and comprehend the effects of climate change on nature and later share their experiences with their parents. “Prior to the tree planting campaign, Oikos embarked on sensitizing the students on the effects of global warming and why it was important to encourage tree planting,” added Ms Elias. Commenting, a Form Four student at the school, Catherine Msuya noted that this year’s Global Environment Day which that celebrated every 5th June, serves as a stern reminder on the importance of protecting the environment. “Some parts of the world are now bearing the brunt of climate change because of disregarding the environment…we don’t want to take any chances, that is why we chose to plant trees in our compound,” she said. Funded by the Italian Agency of Cooperation for Development, TERRA Project is implemented by Oikos in partnership with the Arusha and Meru District Councils. The initiative is also part of the 3-year European Union funded CONNEKT (Conserving Neighboring Ecosystems in Kenya and Tanzania) project, a cross-border collaborative effort to protect the Greater Kilimanjaro-Amboseli ecosystem, wildlife, and people.