THE East African Community (EAC) private sector has called upon Finance Ministers from the six partner states to table supportive and pro-business budgets. The appeal comes a week before the heads of the Finance Ministries in the partner states meet to deliver their customary budget speeches in their national assemblies. Speaking here yesterday, the East African Business Council (EABC) Executive Director, Mr Peter Mathuki observed that the EAC regional economic bloc was still grappling with the high cost of doing business coupled with numerous Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) simply because they do not have in place budget(s) that create an enabling environment for doing business. “As a result we still experience high electricity and logistical costs which hinder EACintra trade,” he observed. Mr Mathuki who heads the regional apex body of Private Sector Associations and Corporates in the EAC, urged the ministers to unravel budget(s) that promote the ease of doing business in the region with a view to creating employment opportunities and enhance revenue collection among member states. “The envisioned budgets should also promote the realization of common market protocol and custom union and ultimately eliminate NTBs. “Intra-trade among the six partner states is below 20 per cent, this spells doom to the community’s economic prospects,” further said Mr Mathuki. Equally, the EABC Executive Director pointed out that the EAC intra-trade was slightly over 45 per cent while the European Union (EU) was at 70 per cent. He underscored the importance of member countries to ensure that their budget(s) are aligned with key sectors that would spur growth within the region. However, delegates who converged at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) for the 20th Ordinary Summit of the EAC Heads of State Summit back in February this year, were told that the number of NTBs had climbed down to 17 from the initial 40, with two of the obstacles proving to be difficult to eliminate. In reaction, Mr Mathuki speaking yesterday assured them that leaders and officials from the partner states were striving to address the situation for the common benefit of the regional economic bloc. “We must appreciate the efforts done by the governments Standard Gauge Railway projects in some of the countries, it is a clear indication of how serious and committed the member states are to the cause,” he added. The tradition by East African countries to table their budgets simultaneously started 12 years ago as part of the regional integration process. However, Burundi and South Sudan are yet to streamline their budget readings. This year’s Tanzania’s budget is pegged at 33.1tri/- while Uganda’s stands at 41 tri/-. The neighbouring country of Kenya plans to spend 2.7 tri/- while in Kigali, the revised budget is slightly above Rwf2.5tri/-.