TANZANIAN researchers and overseas counterparts have turned to genetics to identify and promote dairy superbreeds in an ambitious project aimed at reproducing traits of productive and resilient animals, a timely pace-setter in boosting milk production and turning the country into a net exporter. The four-year project, which involved taking samples from 6,786 cattle from seven regions for genetic evaluation, morphed into a rare spectacle this week in the name of cattle expo in Dodoma - dubbed Cow and Bull Exhibition- at which the best breeds made up of twenty bulls and twenty heifers were paraded. The scientists used a formula called Genetically Estimated Breeding Values (GEBV), which measured how an animal’s bred type (phenotype) combines with the environment ( general welfare of the animal) to produce the phenotype ( tangible performance of the animal, like milk production.) “Most farmers are ignorant about how much of the desired genetic traits the animals they keep possess,” said Gilbert Msuta, a researcher with Tanzania Livestock Research Institute, adding that farmers will start getting information that will lead them to buy the best breeds which yield more milk. The multi-partner project, African Dairy Genetic Gains (ADGG), is funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and is being implemented in Tanzania and Ethiopia. In Tanzania, it has so far rolled out onto seven regions, namely Tanga, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Iringa, Njombe, Mbeya and Songwe. It is a pioneering project that has successfully implemented dairy cattle performance data capture, farmer education messaging and used the performance, pedigree data together with genomic date to evaluate and identify superior crossbred bulls for artificial insemination and delivery and planned natural mating for the benefit of smallholder farmers in Africa. Dr Jimmy Smith, Director General of International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI), trying to put the project and the exhibition “in the right context” said typical challenges facing many developing countries could be translated into opportunities for Tanzania. “Every developed country is concerned with how to feed the population by the time the population stabilizes in 2050. That challenge could be turned into an opportunity for Tanzania, Tanzania has the potential to not only feed its people but also to export to the SADC region,” he said. TALIRI Director General Dr Eligy Shirima noted that potential for contribution of the dairy cows in Tanzania was sizable.