STATE-OWNED Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC) clarified yesterday that it had already started implementing its exclusive mandate on clearance of sensitive exports and imports since June 3, this year. TASAC Director General Emmanuel Ndomba clarified during an interview following an earlier report showing that the corporation had not started its duties pending amendments to the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, 2017. “As we speak we have already started clearing and forwarding services and document control of specified consignments. Tallying of cargo will kick off next month,” Mr Ndomba told ‘Daily News’ in an interview yesterday. He added that amendments to the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, 2017 only aimed at making definitions on some issues that were not clear. “For instance, TASAC is mandated to handle shipments at the port, but the law is silent on other entry and exit points such as airports and borders.” The enactment of the law, which gave the exclusive mandate to TASAC, aimed at, among other things, curbing under declaration of mineral exports, fuel imports and controlling imports and exports of arms and ammunition, live animals and government trophies. “Through document control TASAC receives all cargo manifests for specified exports and imports before they are declared to the Commissioner for Customs and Excise,” he explained. TASAC was initially scheduled to implement the mandate on March 4, this year, but after consultation with players in the industry it decided to change the date to June 3. Industry players noted that the law was silent on mineral exports and imports of petroleum products on transit. “These are among the issues, which are going to be defined through the amendments. Another issue is the regulation of state-owned ferries, which are not covered by TASAC,” Mr Ndomba explained. “Initial reports claiming that TASAC’s exclusive mandate has been put on hold pending amendments to the law were misleading. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Dr Leonard Chamuriho, was quoted out of context,” he added. TASAC exclusivity is provided for in section 7 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, 2017. TASAC had gazzetted March 4, 2019 as the effective date for enforcement, but players in the industry raised concern over limited time provided for adjusting new arrangements. Section 7(1)(a) of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, 2017 also empowers TASAC to undertake clearing and forwarding services for products and/or extracts related to minerals and petroleum, arms and ammunition, live animals and government trophies. That is no other institution other than TASAC will be allowed to make new declarations to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for clearing and forwarding services for imports and exports of goods cited in the legislation. TASAC was established under section 4 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, 2017, to regulate ports, shipping services, maritime environment in addition to safety and security.