TANZANIA hope to excel at the major professional golf tournaments, once again ended in disappointing note after the country’s representative at KCB Karen Masters, a Sunshine Tours Competition failed to make cut. Over 156 top professional golfers from around the world, started to battle it out at the 72 holes four-day annual competition on Thursday at Karen Country Club, Nairobi, Kenya. However, only 64 with score of level par 144 after two rounds, managed to make cut and Tanzania were far from list. Abdallah Yusufu and Fadhil Nkya from Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam are golfers that filled two slots that the country was given by hosts. Both Yusufu and Nkya ended the competition in a disappointing note after posting dismal performance in the two rounds. They could not manage to go past two rounds after both failed to make cut that saw only 64 golfers go through to the event that winds up today. Speaking to the ‘Sunday News’ from Nairobi yesterday, Nkya said things went wrong for him, but he has now set focus for the coming competitions. Nkya, who had difficult first round that he registered 10-over 82, managed to improve and hit 76 in the second round to aggregate 158. His club-mate Yusufu, who started with 78 in the first round, carded 83 in the second and aggregated 161 that was not enough for him to make cut. “I really had a bad game but I have taken some lessons and think about the future,” he said. “We faced several seatbacks including lack of sponsors to prepare and take part at this major tournament. We need to prepare well and arrive early in competition course so as to get familiar with weather and course challenges too,” he said. Yusufu said he will continue to work hard and still believe he can do better in the future. Hosts Kenya, who entered 32 professionals and five amateur golfers, saw ten of them progressing into two final rounds. They include Greg Snow, who so far is East African best performer at event with 9-Under (67, 74, 66) tied at 8th with England’s Steve Surry (71, 70, 66). Zimbabwean Stephen Ferreira, who plays under the Portuguese flag, started with 10- under-par 62 round day one, carded 66 and 68 in the second and third round to aggregate 20-Under and take a shot lead of the leaders’ board to make it tight going today final. The Karen Masters is the second biggest event in terms of prize money in the Sunshine Tour after the Mopani Zambia Open, whose prize money was 2.5 million Rand ( about 374m/-).