NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars became the first team to arrive in Egypt for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), which will commence on June 21 to July 19th this year. Taifa Stars departed their training base in Dar es Salaam for Cairo on Friday, as they continue their preparation for the tournament. Stars jetted off buoyed with confidence to excel in the finals, in where 24 teams will battle it up for the Africa glory. The team will set up camp in Alexandria and on June 13, the East Africans will play host country Egypt in a friendly game, before they square up against Zimbabwe three days later in their final build-up match as proposed by Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike. Packed in group C, the country’s torchbearer will ignite their campaign by facing Senegal on June 23rd before taking on neighbours Kenya on June 27th. Stars will wind up group stage mission by playing against Algeria on July 1st. Few days before departure, Stars’ skipper Mbwana Samatta insisted that everyone in the camp knows the task ahead was enormous, insisting that their mission is clear…to post positive results in the campaign. “We know exactly what we are supposed to do. It is a huge tournament and massive burden for players but we are going to challenge and it always feels good to compete at the top level. “For 39 years, Tanzania failed to compete at such top level and now we have been presented with a platform to battle to the best of our capabilities and we are ready to prove our credentials,” said Samatta, while also issuing a rallying cry. On whether the team will excel or not in Egypt, coach Amunike said the team will need to work hard. “Every player individually and collectively needs to work hard. Football has a lot of ups and down but we at the technical bench are doing everything in our capacity to make sure we go and achieve something positive in Egypt. The former Nigerian international has dropped seven players from the squad that travelled to Egypt to remain with 32 in the list and the squad will further be trimmed down to remain with 23 players for the finals. Among the dropped players include injured right wing back, Shomari Kapombe, together with midfielders— Jonas Mkude and Ibrahim Ajib. Other players who have been dropped from the squad are Kennedy Wilson of Singida United, Ally Ally (KMC), Khamis Khamis (Kagera Sugar) and Ayoub Lyanga of Coastal Union. Stars full squad: Goalkeeper; Aishi Manula (Simba), Metacha Mnata (Mbao), Suleiman Salula (Malindi) and Aaron Lulambo (Tanzania Prisons). Defenders; Claryo Boniface (U20), Hassan Kessy (Nkana, Zambia), Vincent Philipo (Mbao), Mohammed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni (Simba), Kelvin Yondan, Gardiel Michael (Yanga), Abdi Banda (Baroka, South Africa), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli), David Mwantika and Aggrey Morris (Azam). Midfielders; Feisal Salum (Yanga), Himid Mao (Petrojet, Egypt), Frank Domayo, Mudathir Yahya (Azam), Shiza Kichuya (ENNPI, Egypt), Simon Msuva (Difaa Hassan El-Jadidi Morocco), Farid Mussa (Tenerife, Hispania) and Freddy Tangalu (Lipuli). Strikers; Yahya Zayd (Ismailia, Egypt), Shaaban Iddi Chilunda (Tenerife, Spain), Rashid Mandawa (BDF, Botswana), Miraj Athumani (Lipuli), Kelvin John (Serengeti Boys), Adi Yussuf (Solihull Moors, England), John Bocco (Simba), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura, Algeria) and skipper Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk, Belgium).