HEATED debate ensued at the Court of Appeal in Dar es Salaam yesterday over whether the High Court’s Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division wrongly refused to grant bail to businessman James Rugemalira in the 350bn/- economic sabotage case. While the defence forcefully submitted that there was a gross error committed by the High Court, the prosecution led by Principal State Attorneys Zainab Mango, Faraja Nchimbi and Tumaini Kweka as well as State Attorney Elizabeth Mkunda opposed the submission. Following the competing arguments by the parties, Justices Richard Mziray, Winfrida Korosso and Ignas Kitusi, who are hearing the Rugemalira lodged appeal against the findings of the High Court, reserved their ruling, which will be delivered on a date to be announced later. Before commencement of the hearing session, Rugemalira became furious at some points opposing an attempt to block him to shed some light on what he described as contemptuous aspect behind his prosecution. The businessman lost temper and while in emotional state he told the justices, “If that is the case, then I am withdrawing my appeal. I don’t want bail anymore. I am ready to remain in remand forever until the hearing of the case. All what I did is in compliance with the orders of the High Court.” Rugemalira further said, “Let me remain in jail and let them sentence me to end the matter. I am judged for stealing things, which I have not committed. I am being victimised for nothing.” His lawyer, Paschal Kamala, had to take some time to cool him down and change his position. Having composed his mind, the businessman withdrew his submissions on his stand and requested the court to adopt all the submissions and other documents he had filed to support the appeal. However, he threw the ball to the prosecution to start presenting their reactions on his appeal before responding. It was at that point Dr Mango took over the floor and was joined later by Mr Kweka who both argued that the offences, under which Rugemalira is being charged, include money laundering, which is not bailable. They submitted, therefore, that in terms of section 148 (5) (e) (v) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), the High Court was right in denying bail to the accused person. One member of the panel raised a gap in the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act, under which the charges are preferred. She pointed out that after amendment of the Act, the offence of money laundering was categorised as economic offence but there was no provision contained therein as regard to the question of bail as what was done in offences relating to narcotic drugs. Mr Nchimbi chipped in to save the day and convincingly told the court that the businessman was charged with money laundering offence whose particulars show that the crime was committed between 2013 and 2014 when the offence had not been categorised as economic. Therefore, he submitted, there was no way the High Court could determine the question of bail without resorting to the CPA, as there was no provision under the Economic Act that was imported to give different position governing the matter on money laundering offence. However, advocate Kamala hit back, arguing that once the offence is designated as an economic, the Economic Act applies. He submitted, therefore, that if it was the intention of the parliament to impose the use of CPA it could have said so in express terms.