AS the eagerly awaited AFCON 2019 games set to kick off in Egypt from June 21st, DStv has announced to broadcast all 52 matches of the tournament live through Supersport Channels. Speaking in Dar es Salaam, MultiChoice Tanzania Managing Director Jacqueline Woiso said they have made the necessary efforts to make sure that Tanzanians get the chance to watch all 52 games of the tourney live and in High Definition (HD) format. “We are set for the live broadcast of all matches in HD and most importantly all the games will be available from the lowest bouquets – DStv Bomba at 19,000/- only” she hinted during the launch of DStv AFCON’s special campaign dubbed “We are In!” Icing on the cake, MultiChoice Tanzania Head of Marketing Ronald Shelukindo said DStv customers can now enjoy the tournament and all other DStv channels on the go by downloading the DStv Now app whereby one account can be used by up to four different people at the same time at no extra package fee. “When we say we need many Tanzanians to watch the tournament we mean it. With DStv Now app at no additional package fee, you can watch the games on your smart phone, laptop and tablet or on your standard tv at the same time,” said Ronald. As if that is not enough, MultiChoice made yet another ‘big news’ to soccer lovers by introducing a team of renowned Swahili commentators who will give commentaries during the tournament. This is yet another first from DStv. Introducing the commentators, Shelukindo said “We do not want Tanzanians just to see the matches with English, Spanish or Portuguese commentaries, we need Tanzanian to watch live and listen to Kiswahili commentaries and this is the reason behind commissioning our own Tanzanians for this assignment” The list of SuperSport Kiswahili Commentators includes – for the first time a lady - Salama Jabir who is now joining the renowned commentators Aboubakar Liongo, Ibrahim Maestro, Edo Kumwembe, Maulid Kitenge and Oscar Oscar. Speaking during the event, Sports Development Director from the Ministry of Information, Arts, Culture and Sports Omar Singo, commended MultiChoice Tanzania for its efforts in supporting sports in the country. He also commended DStv for making sure that all the matches are available on the lowest package and the use of Kiswahili commentaries