A BUSINESSMAN from Ilala identified as John Chuwa yesterday escaped a 12- month jail term when he paid a fine of 5m/- for providing contents on his online youtube without a licence issued by Tanzania Telecommunication Regulatory Authority (TCRA). Resident Magistrate, Maira Kasonde imposed such sentence at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar res Salaam against Chuwa after convicting him on his own plea of guilty to the charge. Chuwa, the convict, had pleaded guilty to the charge when he was arraigned alongside three others on Tuesday. Before being sentenced, the convict had requested the court to provide him a lenient sentence because it was his first time to be convicted in a criminal case. He told the court that he had several people and other family members, notably, his mother, who depends on him. The prosecution, led by State Attorney Elizabeth Mkunde, on the other hand, requested the court to punish the convict severely in order to serve as a lesson not only to him, but also to other people who will be tempted to commit a similar crime. Presenting facts on the matter, the trial attorney alleged that Chuwa opened his account in 2018, which was later connected to his email address, jail films tz@gmail. com. Such account, the prosecution alleged, published different advertisements and Tanzanian films. The court was told further that the convict had been posting such advertisements and the films using his mobile phone. According to the prosecution, Chuwa had been doing so while knowing that he has not secured any licence from TCRA. Other accused persons who were also charged with a similar offence, before different magistrates were Charles Faustine, a Journalist and a resident of Mikocheni, Amos Francis, a student and a resident of Kigamboni, and Raymond Benedict, a Network operator living in Tabata. Before four magistrates in different court chambers, the trio denied the charges. Faustine was brought before Senior Resident Magistrate Augusta Mbando, while Francis was arraigned before Principal Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega. Benedict was arraigned before Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile. All magistrates granted bail to the accused persons, but on different conditions. The prosecution informed the court that investigations into such cases have not been completed.