YOUNG Africans yesterday officially announced signing of Ugandan striker, Juma Balinya, who was also linked with Simba for the past few weeks. At the club’s fundraising event held yesterday at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Yanga Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela seized the opportunity to introduce two professional players --Balinya from Uganda and Abdulaziz Makame from Zanzibar, who will be trading at the Jangwani Street based club next season. Mwakalebela said the two players are just some of many new faces landing at the club while insisting that the player signing exercise is in progress as they want to strengthen the squad ahead of the approaching busy season. “Let me tell you that we are still searching for lethal weapons to be included in the team so that the pride of the club is restored,” he said. In his short address, Balinya said he is happy to come to Tanzania to play his professional football and thanked the reception he has so far received from the Yanga fans. Balinya emerged Uganda Premier League top goal scorer last season after scoring 19 goals for his Police FC team which finished on the 11th slot. He signed as a free agent and was granted a two year deal. Fresh from the COSAFA 2019 championship where Uganda Cranes was invited as a guest country, Balinya was introduced to the club loyalists during a brief event in Dar es Salaam. He was given shirt number 9. Balinya started his professional club career at Vipers Sports Club before he left for “greener pastures” to A.S Port in Djibouti. After a two season spell, he returned home and featured at Lweza FC (now defunct) which got relegated a season later. He signed at Police FC at the start of the 2017/18 season. The previous season (2018/19), he scored 19 goals to top the scoring charts. Balinya joins the swelling list of Ugandans to have played at Yanga. Emmanuel Okwi, Hamis Kiiza, Joseph Owino and Steven Bengo also played for Yanga, who have won the Mainland Premier League crown 27 times.