ROAD crashes continue to take the lives of Tanzanians amidst stakeholders’ efforts to contain them with statistics released by the World Health Organisation (WHO), that last year alone, more than 16, 000 people died in road accidents. The occurrences of road accidents in the country have hence prompted some stakeholders to think about measures to reduce such fatal crashes by 50 percent by 2030 in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), if not totally wiping them out. In the picture is Mr Henry Bantu, who is a member of the National Road Safety Committee (NRSC), commenting that there is a need to inculcate a positive road culture in all members of the community, because the accidents touch almost every citizen in different ways. “With this alarming death rate, we are all at great risk, unlike other forms of accidents. Road crashes are a threat to us all, poor and the rich, young and old, male and female for we are always travelling in one way or another in our daily dealings,” he clarifies. Explaining how important a positive culture is important in reducing road accidents, Mr Bantu says children are among the frequent road users, when going to school or returning home after classes. Others are farmers, businesspeople, patients going to hospital or returning home, people going to or returning home from recreational places and those going to or coming from church or mosque. He, therefore, says that not only motorists need road safety education, but also other society members, even some traffic police officers who are blamed for poor service delivery or discharging their duties irresponsibly. The formation of road safety committees at village, ward and district levels will be of great help in this regard, according to Mr Bantu. For marginalized groups of people and those, who are not in a position to speak for themselves, Mr Bantu pushes for the utilisation of clubs in schools and other places, where they cannot only get education, but also have tools to protect them against road accidents. “There are some primary schools like Mbuyuni of Dar es Salaam where through the formation of a road safety club, pupils and teachers are made aware of the necessity of road safety and tools to help stop vehicles so that school children can cross the road,” he explains. The need for a positive road safety culture is extremely important. In some parts of the country, paved roads were introduced in the late 1990s. While some speeding bicyclists ram into bushes and farms due to break failures, when cycling down the hill, others plunge into rivers and others hit domestic animals haring the some road. Some parents complain about the evils the paved roads have brought to the reckless young generation, which directly translates into the fact that some people have not yet internalized a positive road safety culture. This is where the crust of the problem lies. At this height, the Minister for Home Affairs Kangi Lugola on different occasions has vowed to take strict measures against traffic officers, who break the law, while on duty and this shows that more efforts are needed to equip law enforcers in the country with road safety skills. Mr Alexander Lucas, the Public Relations Officer of Mwanza Commercial Motorcyclists Association says they use their association to promote a positive road safety culture, which he says has helped to reduce road accidents by changing the attitude of some road users. “Our association trains motorcyclists on various laws regulating road uses, insists on the importance of wearing a helmet for both the motorcyclist and customer, discourages alcohol consumption while using a motorcycle and coordinates training methods from various road safety experts,” he says. He adds that using law enforcers alone is not an effective way of creating a positive road safety culture. “Whenever a motorcyclist encounters a police officer, he runs away due to lack of education on laws. Likewise, if a police officer arrests the motorcyclist for any breach of traffic laws, he is fined and sometimes put under police custody then educates them. This is different from our association’s approach, which focuses on the cyclists’ right to operate in different parts of Mwanza City, make sure laws are respected and nobody’s life is at risk.” Mr Lucas says that one of the causes of road accidents among motorcyclists is mixing up work and leisure as some motorcyclists carry passengers, while they are drunk. He says if any member of their association is found drunk by fellow motorcyclists. He will have his motorcyclist confiscated and will be required to pay a fine so that he can get back his motorcycle when he is sober and through that the money obtained is channelled to support the association’s activities. Through this, says Mr Lucas “we promote a positive road safety culture and help combat road crashes, which have detrimental effects to social, economic and cultural development. Efforts like this one should be promoted by all stakeholders.” It is time we promoted a positive road safety culture and we can do this by involving religious organisations and their leaders, political leaders, schools and ultimately members of the public.