THE highly awaited first playoff match between Pamba FC and Kagera Sugar was yesterday postponed and will be played today at Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza. The postponement, as Kagera Sugar manager claimed, had deeply affected his team psychologically. The reasons for the rescheduling of the important tie were not immediately revealed despite having both teams at the venue ready for the first leg playoff encounter whose overall winner will be promoted to play in the top flight league next season. Meanwhile, another playoff tie between Geita Gold and Mwadui which was set yesterday at Nyankumbu girls in Geita was also readjusted for today. However, briefing reporters here, the Mwanza Football Association (MZFA) General Secretary Leonard Malongo said they received formal communication from the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) saying the game should be halted and instead be played today at the same venue from 4:00pm. “When the teams were in the dressing room, we received a message from TPLB saying the game should be rescheduled for tomorrow (today) without giving any tangible reason,” Malongo said. Reacting on the development, Kagera Sugar Manager Mohamed Hussein said the reschedule of the match without sound reasons affected them a lo t. “Our team was ready for the encounter. We are all surprised why they delayed to give us information about the changes. It is unfair,” Hussein said. In his remarks, Pamba SC Head Coach Ally Kisaka said they have been psychologically affected with the last minute changes. “The painful part of this issue is that we have not been told the reasons behind the alteration of the game,” he said. Pamba finished second in their group B First Division League (FDL) with 42 points to win a ticket of playing in the two-leg playoff games. They outclassed Mbeya Kwanza 2-0 at Nyamagana Stadium to book a battle with Kagera Sugar who were the only side to beat twice the current champions Simba SC. On the other hand, Kagera Sugar finished on 17th slot on the league ladder with 44 points from 38 clashes hence doing well in their upcoming two fixtures will guarantee them reappearance in the league. Both teams use this rare chance as the only channel to win promotion into the Mainland Premier League next term