CHINESE Ambassador to Tanzania Wang Ke has advised the government to grab opportunities that will come with execution of resolutions of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) Summit that starts today in Beijing. Foreign and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi is representing the country at the conference. Minister Kabudi will meet with Chinese State Councilor and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi for the signing of some cooperation agreements between the two countries. “We expect more consensus and outcomes for the China-Tanzania cooperation,” Ambassador Ke expressed optimism at a statement that the embassy issued in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. He encouraged Tanzania to grab opportunities out of the implementation of FOCAC outcomes and promote China- Tanzania cooperation in an allaround way. The coordinators’ meeting on implementation of the outcomes will be held today and tomorrow in Beijing, China. The ministerial-level officials from China and 54 African member states will attend the meeting. Ambassador Ke stated that Tanzania and China have maintained a traditional partnership, with long-term cooperation at all levels across the board .Since the FOCAC Beijing Summit in September 2018, both sides have devoted themselves to the implementation of its outcomes, registering important progress and initial results. “There is high degree of consensus between political leadership of both countries on the development of friendship and cooperation… we have seen a number of high-level visits since last year, including the visit to China by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa,” she said. China and Tanzania jointly hosted the Communist Party of China (CPC) in Dialogue with World Political Parties High-Level Meeting Africa Thematic Event in Dar es Salaam, which served as a platform for exchanges on governance. In July this year, National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai and Speaker of the House of Representatives of Zanzibar Zubeir Ali Maulid will visit China. The Embassy believes that the frequent exchanges of visits among leaders of governments, legislative bodies and political parties have consolidated the foundation of the political mutual trust. China is the largest trading partner of Tanzania, with the 2018 bilateral trade volume reaching 3.976 billion US dollars (over 9tri/). By March 2019, China had invested an accumulative 6 billion US dollars (over 13tri/-) in Tanzania. Shinyanga Cotton Industrial Park, Oil Processing Factory of Sunshine Industrial Ltd and a number of ceramics iron and steel as well as construction material factories with Chinese investments have laid the foundation for Tanzania to realise its industrialisation goal.