KENYAN government yesterday issued a statement, condemning the xenophobic utterances by Kenyan lawmaker Charles Njagua. Presenting the statement in the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) here, Cabinet Secretary for the Ministry of East African Community and Regional Development Adan Mohamed echoed Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, saying the government and all Kenyans have distanced themselves from the unfortunate remarks. The Starehe Member of Parliament (MP) has since been arrested over his xenophobic remarks against foreigners in Kenya, including Tanzanians, in a video clip that went viral in social media on Tuesday. “Our attention has been drawn to unfortunate utterances by the Kenyan member of parliament ... I wish to categorically state here that the views expressed by this legislator (Mr Njagua) do not in any way reflect the views of the government or the people of the Republic of Kenya. “Indeed, the government has already issued a clear and unequivocal statement to that effect. As I am talking to you now, the relevant security organs have already taken action against the legislator,” said Mr Mohamed amid applause from members of the house. The cabinet secretary said he was echoing what Premier Majaliwa said in Parliament in Dodoma on Tuesday, that as a responsible government, Kenya could never allow anybody to sow seeds of discord between Kenyans and their East African brothers and sisters. “I would like to reiterate the Kenya government’s unwavering commitment to EAC integration, the EAC Treaty and all the protocols that we have signed and ratified,” said the secretary. Mr Mohammed said Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta is on record on several occasions in his public address, making it abundantly clear that East Africans are welcome to visit Kenya, invest, visit for pleasure and even marry and settle in Kenya so long as they do so in accordance with laws. “That position has not changed. Kenya is at the forefront in the implementation of various provisions of the Common Market Protocol, including the one on movement of people and labour. Kenyans and indeed all East Africans, must get used to the idea of the EAC Common Market that provides for non-discrimination of citizens of other EAC partner states on the basis of their nationality and guarantee protection of EAC citizens and their property as provided for under Article 7(2) of the EAC Common Market Protocol,” said the EAC minister. Mr Mohammed added that the incident was a wakeup call to all EAC people to keep their eyes and ears open across the region, to safeguard against leaders advocating for policies that are inconsistent with the EAC integration agenda and should not allow certain leaders to incite citizens against one another.