AS Anthropologists would confine it that the culture of a people is what marks them out distinctively from other human societies in the family of humanity, in Tanzania; it has helped to bring patriotism and peace that everyone enjoys. Peace, as we all know, is very important in our lives and it is essential to our overall well-being. Any kind of violence, even in its lowest form can be a huge hindrance to peace, and that is why we must stamp it out in order to preserve peace and the lives of millions of innocent people. It has enabled the country to be renowned and also play an important role in assisting popular liberation movements throughout Africa following the end of the Second World War as a crucial factor in achieving their independences. In particular, Mwl Julius Nyerere- the architect of Tanzania’s independence and the country’s first President - was a key figure in the struggle against foreign domination, and helped to popularise the concept of Pan-African unity, because he envisioned peace. It is a common factor that once your neighbour is in turmoil; you will definitely not be in peace because you also play a host to its refugees. In this scenario, Tanzania was closely involved in several groups and organisations that aided the liberation struggles, and of these, the most well-known was the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) that later midwifed the current Africa Union (AU). Tanzania was also a key member of the Frontline States, an organisation dedicated to overthrowing the apartheid regime in South Africa. By coordinating their approaches, the Frontline States could exert a greater influence than could be achieved alone, which prompted Mwl Nyerere and his government to take action without the support of other states to challenge minority White rule in Southern Africa. All these pinpoint that Tanzania culture of maintaining peace and advocating for patriotism will always pay in the short and long run if everyone in the country feel entitled to own and tap resources jealously. We need peace on Earth because it is our home! We need peace on Earth so that the families at the war affected places can again live a peaceful and healthy life. We need peace on Earth so that the huge loads of money, that are spent on peace keeping missions and army can be saved and utilised for the better. Peace and security is an essential factor of human life. A peaceful and secure environment is critical to every society since it affects all aspects of economic and social development in a country, and is a necessary sine qua non to the realisation of human rights.