ZAMBIAN international Justin Shonga and Kenyan midfield maestro Francis Kahata are now heralding transfer window that has been much dominated by Dar es Salaam football giants. Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC are in the race of signing new players as well as extending contracts with the former one. Throughout the week there have been unconfirmed reports that the Mainland champions, Simba are at the brink to sign Gor Mahia attacking midfielder, Francis Kahata and Orlando Pirates Zambian striker, Justin Shonga. And, in the coming week, the Msimbazi- street based side is likely to reveal the signing of the Buccaneers striker whose report from South Africa shows that the high skilled striker is set to leave the club in favour of Tanzanian heavyweights Simba. Shonga who joined Pirates early in the 2017/18 season from Zambian side Nkwazi FC and since established himself as a regular scoring vital goals for Milutin Sredojevic’s side will be a vital for Simba if they manage to get his sign especially in the CAF Champions League which he has managed to score four goals in eight appearances. However, according to a report , Simba have already made contact with Pirates but the clubs are still some way off agreeing a deal as the 22-yearold former policeman is also on the radar for a handful of European clubs. While on the other side with Simba seen as Kahata's likely destination, the midfielder who is currently in Egypt with Kenya national team ‘Harambee Stars’ for the ongoing AFCON finals has disclosed that he would decide on his future after the Afcon tournament. However, reports unveil that the attacking midfielder seems to be confident he can settle in Tanzania, should he join Simba. Kahata’s contract with the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) champions Gor Mahia have already expired. On Saturday, Azam retained striker Obrey Chirwa, who made a U-turn and signed the deal to remain at the club. The move comes few days after the Zambian was reported to have decided to part ways with the ‘ice-cream makers’ club after they failed to reach agreement on contract extension. According to Azam Spokesman, Jaffar Idd the Zambian striker has signed a one year contract with club. And that the striker has already reported to the club training camp for preparations of the approaching CECAFA Kagame Cup schedule to kick off next month. Both Simba and Azam will represent Tanzania in the next season CAF Champions League and Confederation Cup respectively Meanwhile, Alexander Sanga reports from Mwanza that Mwanza based Mbao FC will sign four players for the coming season. Mbao FC club chairman Solly Njashi has said they are recruiting four players with the purpose of reinforcing their squad. Njashi said they will recruit players in goalkeeping, strikers force and midfield positions. He also confirmed that they are now searching new assistant coach to replace Fulgence Novatus, whose contract has expired. Fulgence recently joined first division side Gwambina FC. Njashi thanked their club main sponsors GF trucks &equipment for their wholehearted support during the premier league. He further called upon football fraternity in Mwanza to continue supporting their team for next seasons. Mbao FC finished at the sixteenth position at the Premier League after collecting 45 points.