AFTER recording good performance in collecting a monthly average of 90bn/- in revenues, the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) now targets to collect a total of 200bn/- within the same period from its ports across the country starting the next financial year. The TPA’s new collection target was set yesterday in the wake of a challenge posed by the Minister for Works, Transportation and Communication, Engineer Isaac Kamwelwe, that it should boost revenues. He was speaking at a Construction Industry Joint Council (CIJC) meeting held in Bagamoyo town in Coast Region. CIJC agreement is a working agreement used within the construction industry which aims at improving workers’ welfare including but not limited to the improvement of working environment and staff benefits. Eng Kamwelwe informed members of the CIJC that he was confident that the goal was attainable since he had asked stakeholders in the industry to cooperate. He also directed port workers to shed habits that may hamper operations. Quoting Democratic Republic of Congo President Felix Tshisekedi who toured the country last week, the minister said the DRC’s annual cargo volume was five million tonnes but only 1.7 million tonnes were offloaded at the Dar es Salaam Port, askingthe TPA management and staff why 3.3 million tonnes were not being cleared at the port. The port, according to Mr Kamwelwe, was a link that connected Tanzania to the world, which was also the main reason for all railway lines to start from Dar es Salaam. “The simplest way of transporting cargos to Europe or Asia is through Dar es Salaam Port but the business volume is still low,” the minister said as he asked TPA to fix some loopholes in order to boost the country’s revenues. He congratulated TPA for cutting down congestion at Dar es Salaam Port to the range of 13 ships but he was informed that the authority was in the procurement process to acquire new cranes, towards boosting efficiency. Apart from the plan, TPA is also executing strategic projects; that is, expansion of Dar es Salaam and Mtwara ports and later Tanga, to capacitate the ports to receive more cargos and subsequently improve the country’s revenue. Realizing the position of human resources’ role in achieving port targets, Eng Kamwelwe advised TPA community members to ask themselves; “What am I going to do?” while reviewing the previous plan for improvement of the future one. The strategic projects under TPA’ that is, Dar es Salaam and Mtwara ports expansion and anticipated Tanga Port, signifies its commitment . On raising port revenue, the minister seeks to attract more customers from DRC and Zambia at a Central Corridor meeting scheduled in Lubumbashi. Meanwhile, the TPA Director General, Engineer Deusdedit Kakoko, said revenues have been increasing since 2015, citing the last two years whereby TPA collected over 60bn/- and 90bn/-, respectively. Eng Kakoko responded positively to the minister’s directive, pointing out that the workers were ready, adding that, he had submitted a list of facilities required for enhancing port operations. TPA regulates and licenses port and marine services, facilities as well as manages vessel traffic in the port and ensuring safety and security. According to its website, the authority operates a system of ports serving the Tanzania hinterland and the landlocked countries of Malawi, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda.