MINISTER for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Khamis Kigwangalla, has said the introduction of cable car service on Mount Kilimanjaro is expected to increase the number of tourists visiting Tanzania. Dr Kigwangalla said this at the fourth best tour guides award ceremony in Arusha City recently. “There has been concern for this service that it is going to affect mountaineering for this highest peak in Africa. May I assure that it won’t affect in anyway the current trend because the use of cable cars will be optional. This service will provide an opportunity for those, who can’t climb Mt Kilimanjaro due to different reasons, including those living with a physical disability,” he said. He added that there were other potential climbers of Mt Kilimanjaro, but they lacked time for climbing on scheduled days. “These could do so by using this service in the shortest time possible. Those interested in climbing the mountain using traditional routes and who we all know are the majority, will continue doing so,” he noted. Dr Kigwangalla explained that the government would continue cooperating with tourist guides, porters and cooks because they were important people in the country’s tourism sector. “Y ou are the ones who stay for so long with tourists, who visit our country every year. Therefore, you are our country’s best ambassadors, who the government must be close to all the time,” he stressed. He called upon tourist guides to continue providing better services and improving them, wherever necessary so that the tourists leaving the country after their stay in the country would speak positively about Tanzania’s image. “This will make them come back again, while at the same time, inform others in their respective countries about Tanzania’s tourism sector and the people’s hospitality,” he added. Earlier, on behalf of tourism stakeholders, the board chairman of the Tanzania Guides Award, Dr Christopher Nzela, expressed their concern over the introduction of cable cars on Mt Kilimanjaro, saying the service could affect the mountain climbing business. “We are made to understand that there are plans to introduce the cable car service for those, who intend to climb Mt Kilimanjaro. May I take this opportunity to ask the government to give a special session to tourism stakeholders and clarify any misinformation about this service,” he said. Dr Nzela also advised the government through the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism to utilise a formal approach, which would involve tourist guides in a campaign for marketing the country’s tourist attractions inside and outside the country.