WITH different communities joining hands to celebrate Eid al- Fitr, peace and tranquility generally reigned all over the country with no reports of disruption, accident, death or missing of people. Regional police commanders (RPCs), from Kigoma, Simiyu, Shinyanga, Mara and Coast regions told ‘Daily News’ through telephone interviews that security reigned and there were no incidents of crime or any other acts that might have caused the breach of the peace. Simiyu Regional Police Commissioner (RPC), William Mkonda said no incident has disrupted the solemn observance of Eid al-Fitr. “So far, so good. There was a music concert conducted during the first Eid al-Fitr celebration that ended at 2am and everything was concluded peacefully,” Mr Mkonda noted. Kinondoni RPC Muliro Jumanne said during the two days security was intensified and the police had not received any report of any incident as of Thursday morning. Temeke RPC, Amon Kakwale said security in his jurisdiction was good and there was no sign of the breach of the peace. “People have celebrated in peace and soberly enough. Until now I have not received any reports of incidents of crime or accidents. This is a clear indication that the festival went very well,” he noted. For his part, Ilala RPC, Zuberi Chembera told this newspaper that enhanced security in various parts of the city during the festive season helped to contain crime. He said until yesterday they had not received any report of any serious crime from police stations unlike in the past. Shinyanga RPC Richard Abwao noted that Eid al-Fitr was marked peacefully in the region. “No crime has been reported, thanks to enhanced security in various parts of the region. No incidents of crime have been reported. The police will continue ensuring peace and harmony even after the festive season,” said Mr Abwao. The Police Force also reminded members of the public to take care of their children and ensure they return home safely from wherever they went to enjoy during Eid al-Fitr. Coast RPC Wankyo Nyigesa said he congratulated Coast residents for continuing to abide by the law as the entire festive season was calm to the end. According to Kigoma RPC Martin Otieno positive results of safety and security in the region have been contributed significantly to residents by abiding by the law and educating others that crime did not pay. He said some people had a tendency to disrupt peace in various festivals, especially in the region, but “this festival has become different as the state has been calm without any incidents of crime.” “I would like to urge all residents of Kigoma to continue with this attitude they showed not just because of the festive season, but also continue showing stability and denounce any kind of crimes,” said RPC Otieno. One of the most important religious holidays for Islam, Eid al-Fitr, signifies the end of 29 or 30 days of the fasting season. During Ramadan, Muslims fast from dawn to dusk as a religious obligation and focus on charitable works, the forgiveness of others’ wrongdoings and prayer.