A PROMINENT doctor who was also the Founder and Chairperson of Regency Medical Centre, Dr Rajni Kanabar, has died in Dallas, Texas in the United State of America. Dr Kanabar died on the 25th June 2019 at the age of 78 surrounded by his family in Dallas, Texas USA where he has been for sometimes for treatment. A statement issued by the centre yesterday said funeral services were expected to be held in Dallas yeeterday. Dr Kanabar was born on 9th November 1940, in Mwanza, Tanzania, and he is a third generation of Indian origin. As a medical practitioner, Dr Kanabar possessed an exemplary record of community service. spending more than three decades working for the community. In 1979, Dr Kanabar pioneered the ‘Tanzania Heart Babies Project’, which continues its invaluable, lifesaving work to date under the phase wise banner of Mwanza Round Table, International Heart Relief Foundation of USA, Ministry of Health, Tanzania and Zanzibar. Others who contributed to the heart babies project are Tanzania Heart Foundation, Lions Club of Dar Es Salaam (Host), Regency Medical Centre Ltd Dar es Salaam, Global Understanding Foundation of Dr Kiran Patel USA, Rodney Mute Mengi Foundation Dar es Salaam and Dr Ryaz Hassanali Medical Relief Foundation USA. His long-standing connection and partnership with Lions Clubs International has also brought unassailable gains to the community at large. Partnering with stateof- the-art Indian hospitals, world-class Indian surgeons and the Indian High Commission has led to countless Gratis Visas for disadvantaged Tanzanian children. As well as sending thousands of non-cardiac tertiary care patients to India at affordable rates, Dr Kanabar collaborated with Indian hospitals to conduct medical camps at Regency Medical Centre in Dar es Salaam. These range from free eye screening, diabetes, spine, hip and knee joint, neurosurgical and specialised cancer screening health camps to cardiac checkups and free cataract surgeries for non-affording patients. Over these past 12 years, Regency Medical Centre has provided almost 59,000 subsidised, often free, haemodialysis sessions. For his outstanding contribution in the field of medicine, Dr Kanabar received many accolades, including from the former Tanzanian President Benjamin Mkapa and former First Lady of Zanzibar Ms Shadya Karume. He also had a long list of awards, including the ‘Pravasi Bhartiya Samman Award’ from the former President of India (2010) Ms Pratibha Patil, the ‘Samaj Ratna Award ’ 2010 by the Tanzanian Hindu Community, and Lohana International Mahaparishad Award 2011. In 2003, he was nominated as one of the ‘Top Five Lions of the Year’ by Lions Clubs International consisting of 1.2 million Lions in 204 countries and previously received several Lionistic awards for the Tanzania Heart Babies Project, including Best Chairman (1995/96) and Outstanding District Region Chairman (2009/10), Lion of District 411B 2009- 2010.