TANZANIA National Parks (Tanapa) conservation officers have been urged to work professionally and protect the country’s natural resources. Commissioning military insignias to 99 senior and principal conservation officers, which signals the authority’s move from civilian to a paramilitary system yesterday, Tanapa Conservation Commissioner, Dr Allan Kijazi , said the officers had a noble duty of working diligently in tracking and cracking down on poachers in protected areas. “The insignias that you are decorated with today should remind you how you need to conduct yourselves in protecting our natural resources,” noted the Tanapa boss. He also challenged the officers to refrain from using excessive force even as the Arushabased authority assumes the paramilitary system. “The system doesn’t entail brandishing rifles and other weapons to protect wildlife and other resources, it is all about conducting yourselves diligently before members of the public,” he noted. Dr Kijazi insisted that the paramilitary system wouldn’t be an immediate remedy to challenges facing the authority, but termed it an important step in addressing them. Before decorating them, the officers took an oath of office, committing to showing patriotism, discipline and professionalism while discharging their duties. Tarangire National Park principal conservation officer Neema Philipo Mollel said the ranks bestowed on them represented the responsibility they had been entrusted with in protecting Tanzania’s natural resources. “Members of the public and the country as a whole expect much from us. We, therefore, need to take the bull by the horns and ensure the natural resources are always secure.” The departure from civilian to the paramilitary system not only seeks to protect natural resources, but also instill discipline in institutions falling under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. The move has seen its senior officers and conservators being taken to Mlele Camp in Katavi Game Reserve in Katavi Region for paramilitary training. The Wildlife Management Act No 5 of 2009 provides for the shift of institutions from civilian to the paramilitary system.