STUDENTS who visited Tanzania’s Parliament recently have advised school authorities to cultivate a culture of organizing tours to the legislative organ, to enable them learn how parliamentarians represent their constituencies during debates. The advice was given by a group of students from St Anne Marie Academy and Brilliant Secondary School who visited parliament as part of motivation to them, following the institutions’ good performance in 2018 national examinations. In the standard seven results, St Anne Marie emerged number six at national level, number one in Dar es Salaam Region and number one in Ubungo District while in 2017 it emerged number eight nationally, number two in Dar es Salaam and number one in Ubungo District. Speaking with this newspaper after the tour in parliament, one of the St Anne Marie students, Jackline Malavanu, said it was her first time to visit the parliament of Tanzania and she have learnt a lot of things especially how parliamentarians debate on issues. “We thank the school management for giving us this opportunity. Most of us were excited as we didn’t expect to get this chance. We have learnt a lot about how parliament conducts its affairs, how MPs debate and how the government responds to issues that are raised. We are advising other schools to emulate this tradition,” she said. Another student, Emmanuel Kimario said other schools should learn from St Anne Marie Academy’s tradition of organising such tours to their students, not only to parliament but also in national parks like Serengeti, Ngorongoro and Mikumi as part of motivation to their students to do better in their studies. “Big up to Mr Rweikiza who is the school’s director; he always keeps his promises to students, This tour will remain in our memories throughout our lives because we have learnt a lot which will help us grow academically,” he said. On his part, Abdulkarim Mawenge thanked the school management for fulfilling its promise despite the fact that they had completed form four and many students were in different regions. Recently, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai, commended Bukoba Rural MP Jasson Rweikiza for investing in education, something which he said complemented the government’s efforts in uplifting education sector. Mr Rweikiza is among Tanzanians who have for a long time invested heavily in the education sector by building schools, which include St Anne Marie Academy, Sunshine of Kibaha, Brilliant Secondary School and Rweikiza Nursery and Primary School.