THE country’s envoys the CAF Confederation Cup (CCC), will be known after today after the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), final battle between Azam and Lipuli at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi. Whether the trophy goes Azam or Lipuli, the today’s encounter will write a new chapter as per records and statistics pertaining to the country participation in the continental level tournament. Do Azam win, it will be the first team to win the federation cup twice while the win for Lipuli it will be the first time to have Iringa representative in the continental class tournament. The winner of the today’s clash will join the 2018/19 Premier League Champions, Simba SC to represent the country in the continental class mission. The today’s final to be officiated by referee Hance Mabena, places Azam as favourites to win the fourth edition against Lipuli who are playing their first ever FA Cup final. AS Azam who have missed the touch of two CAF level showpieces, are eager to book their only available ticket by winning the today’s final. Azam eliminated KMC in the semis with a slim 1-0 win on their way to the last two. However, Azam who are keen for success after failing to impress their owner for about two consecutive seasons, should not expect an easy ride over Lipuli who had proved a tough nut to crack when facing Dar es Salaam giants. Head to head statistics in the Premier League put the teams on level par as none managed to beat the other so far. The teams shared spoils in a barren draw in the first round and went 1-1 in the second round of the just ended season. Lipuli under the tutelage of Selemani Matola are a surprise package this season. They managed to eliminate one of the country’s giants; Young Africans in the epic semifinal match at Samora Stadium in Iringa. Lipuli won 2-0 then. So despite being labeled underdogs, Lipuli could as well surprise Azam in today’s clash. The team boast good strikers such as Haruna Shamte, Paul Nonga, Miraji Athuman, Novatus Lufunga, Paul Ngalema, Ally Mtoni, Shabani Ada, and William Lucian who are capable of beating any team. Azam assistant Coach Idd Cheche believes they are going to win against Lipuli as it is their only ticket to participate in the big continental tournament. While Matola, who is proud of his team made up of mixture of youthful and experienced players, believes his side can shock their opponents and win the tournament. But he cautioned that the match will be tough and highly competitive but unpredictable as well since anything can happen. The Last season’s ASFC winners Mtibwa Sugar failed to defend their title and so are the previous winners Young Africans and Simba respectively.