AS All Africa Games Volleyball Zone 5 Men’s Qualifiers opened its shootouts in Nairobi, Kenya yesterday, Tanzania national team sadly failed to make it and missed the event. Five men's volleyball national teams, including Tanzania, confirmed their participation in the Zone 5 Qualifiers which winds up on June 7th this year at Kasarani Indoor arena in Nairobi. But Tanzania was forced to withdraw at the last moment after failing to travel to Nairobi due to what the officials blamed financial constraints. Alfred Selengia, the secretary of Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that his association failed to raise enough funds for the zonal volleyball mission. Selengia said that his association was looking for about 9m/- to be able to travel and compete at the Kenyan event, but it failed to secure effective sponsorship hence forcing them to withdraw. TAVA had named strong team that included top professional players based in the East African Community such as Jackson Mmari and Ezekiel Robson. The team that started a camp mid last month was mixed with local top players like Fred Masinga, Kevin Peter, Abdulrahman Yusuph, Jahanes Mhandiki, Said Alhaji, Elisha Ezekiel, Joseph Mafuru, Ford Edward, Hamisi Sadala, Muksin Mhinga, Rashidi Mustafa and Ramadhan Kassim. They were under head coach Selengia who was assisted by Ally Mohamed to prepare well the players so as to enable them return to home victorious. Tanzania had chance to make it at the expanse of hosts Kenya, Egypt, Uganda and Rwanda in an event to be played in a round robin format. The winners will represent the zone in the 2019 All Africa Games finals. According to the fixture, Tanzania was set to open the tournament campaign by facing Kenya in the yesterday’s fixture. The prestigious 12th edition of All Africa Games will take place from August 19 to 22, 2019 in Rabat, Morocco. The finals feature 8 teams, namely the winners of each of the continent’s 5 zones and the hosts Morocco.