THE prosecution has requested the Judiciary to release sufficient funds for witnesses to accelerate the 3.6bn/- fraud and money laundering trial of former Chief Accountant with Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Geofrey Gugai and three others. Principal State Attorney Awamu Mbangwa told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the prosecution failed to call other witnesses because five of them who testified in previous hearing sessions have not been paid to date. “They are ninth to 13th witnesses. These witnesses travelled at their own expenses from where they live outside Dar es Salaam to the court to testify. They have not been paid. We request this court to issue necessary orders for them to be paid their entitlements,” he submitted. Magistrate Simba, who is conducting the trial, assured the prosecution that the matter would be worked upon to ensure the long pending case is finally determined. “We have agreed with the prosecution to bring more witnesses to expedite the trial. The issue of payments for witnesses will be solved,” he said. He adjourned the trial for another hearing on June 18, 2019 and directed the prosecution to bring more witnesses on that day. Other accused persons jointly charged with Gugai are George Makaranga, Leonard Aloys and Yasin Katera, who are all businessmen dealing with different activities. It is alleged that between January 2005 and December 2015 in the city, being a public officer employed by the PCCB, Gugai owned properties valued at 3,634,961,105/02 that are disproportionate to his present and past lawful income amounting to 852,183,160/46. The prosecution alleges that the accused was unable to provide satisfactory explanation on how such properties came under his ownership. The court heard further that between January and June 2016 in the city, with intent to defraud, Gugai forged 14 sale agreements for different plots. It is alleged that the accused purported to show that on different dates prior to the said period of time, he had sold such plots to different people, while it was untrue.