KISWAHILI continues crossing borders, with the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) announcing its plans to start teaching the language in Ethiopia. UDSM said in a statement in Da es Salaam yesterday that it will start teaching Kiswahili in Ethiopia effective next September to implement the agreements between President John Magufuli and Ethiopia’s government over the use of Kiswahili in the country. Tanzania’s oldest tertiary institution in collaboration with Tanzanian Embassy in Addis Ababa had talks on the implementation programme for teaching Kiswahili in the country. “The resolutions made during the talks included introduction of Kiswahili teaching programme for certificate, diploma and degree levels at the Addis Ababa University (AAU),” the statement read. It further detailed; “It was agreed that the programme should start next September and to make the language spread further and become one of the communication tools in the African Union (AU), plans are afoot to teach Kiswahili to AU employees.” Kiswahili is one of the most spoken languages in Africa after Arabic and English and can expand to countries that have never spoken it before to draw Africans closer. Apart from Tanzania and Kenya, Kiswahili is spoken in parts of Uganda, DRC Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The new development comes barely a month after South Africa announced the teaching of Kiswahili language in its schools. South Africa’s government said plans were underway to have the subject introduced in all schools as part of basic education, noting that the language is widely spoken in Africa. In South Africa, Afrikaaner, English, Dutch, Zulu, Khosa and Sotho are the widely spoken languages, with English being the country’s official language Last month, Tanzania agreed to send Kiswahili teachers to South Sudan to help the world’s newest nation to master the African Great Lakes region’s lingua franca. The government is waiting for a word from Juba to establish, when to send the teachers to the country. Once the governments sign the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with South Sudan, Tanzania teachers will fly to Juba to teach Kiswahili. Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Minister Dr Harrison Mwakyembe recently informed the public that the government will hire Tanzanian graduates to go and teach Kiswahili in Tanzania’s embassies in different countries. Dr Mwakyembe said Kiswahili is going to become one of major languages in the world and many countries needed Kiswahili teachers to teach their citizens. Out of 6000 languages in the world, Kiswahili is among 10 mostly spoken languages.