THE construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro has reached 52.9 per cent, the assistant project manager, Eng Ayub Mdachi said yesterday. Speaking to students from the Open University of Tanzania (OUT), Eng Mdachi said the project is scheduled to be completed by November this year. He said so far the construction activities are going on well thanks to support from the government. According to Eng Mdachi, a total of 110 employees were sourced from different universities in the country and that they are demonstrating credible performance in their areas. “We feel proud of employing young Tanzanians from our local universities, our target is to employ 187 direct from universities to work in different areas in this mega project,” he noted. Eng Mdachi revealed that so far the SGR project has employed a total of 3,000 in different areas. He said the project is playing a big role in supporting individual development and that of the nation at large. “The project has increased money circulation among Tanzanians; in so doing, SGR is contributing to the country’s economic growth at both individual and national levels,” he said. He said upon completion of the railway, Tanzania is expected to boost its economy since the new railway line is designed to ease transportation and thus boost economic activities across the country. “This project is contributing greatly to the country GDP’s growth; the project brings changes during and after the implementation,” he said. The Open University of Tanzania Students Organisation (OUTSO) President, Felix Rugeiyamu, said the students have been impressed by the President’s move to have the SGR constructed, which focuses on boosting the country’s economy. “We will continue to support the government’s development plans, which are basically aiming at bringing economic changes in the country. Tanzania signed an agreement with Turkish and Portuguese firms to construct the Dar es Salaam- Morogoro stretch at Sh2.7 trillion, which is expected to be completed by November 1, this year. The country plans to spend 14.2bn US dollars over the next five years to build the 2,561 kilometre- SGR connecting its main port of Dar es Salaam to landlocked neighbours, namely the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Uganda. The construction of the project is divided into four phases and put out separate tenders to design it. The three remaining sections are Makutupora-Tabora (294km), Tabora-Isaka (133km) and Isaka- Mwanza (248km).