THE Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) has presented the Geita Gold Mine Limited (GGML) with an award been a recognition of its Kilimanjaro Challenge campaign against HIV and AIDS which apart from raising money for the fight against disease it also advertises Mount Kilimanjaro. TANAPA Public Relations Manager, Pascal Shelutete, who represented the TANAPA Conservation Commissioner Allan Kijazi, handed over the award to the Vice President of GGM, Mr Simon Shayo. The award presentation was part of the occasion to receive Mount Kilimanjaro climbers and bikers who participated in this year’s GGM Kilimanjaro Challenge against HIV and AIDS campaign. “We have awarded this award to GGM as TANAPA recognition of the GGM Kilimanjaro Challenge against HIV and AIDS, which is implemented by climbing Mount Kilimanjaro since its inception 17 years ago. We understand very well that apart from raising funds for the fight against HIV and AIDS it also advertises the Africa’s highest peak hence the increase number of tourists coming to climb the mountain every year,” he said. Speaking during the occasion, Mr Shayo thanked TANAPA for their recognition of the Kilimanjaro Challenge’ s contribution to the nation and noted the award would motivate GGM and its partners as far as the Kilimanjaro Challenge campaign is concerned. Mr Shayo said that so far more than 50 organizations involved in the campaign against AIDS have benefited from the campaign since its inception in 2002. He said that apart from the institutions, also many orphans have benefited from the campaign by accessing education, whereby he said there were already some pupils pursuing their education in primary, secondary, universities and other higher learning institutions through the Kilimanjaro campaign raised funds. “There are others who have already finished their studies in different levels and are now employed in Government, Government institutions and in the private sectors and others have decided to become self-employed,” he said, adding, there successes shows the importance of the GGM Kilimanjaro Challenge campaign because the children who miss such fortune end up in the streets. Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner, Ms Anna Mghwira congratulated GGML and other stakeholders who have emerged to support GGM in the campaign, including government institutions, whereby she said their support helped strengthen the Kilimanjaro challenge campaign every year. The Geita Regional Commissioner, Robert Gabriel, said that recent statistics showing young girls as victims of the new infections was a new challenge that must be dealt with. “Statistics showing that in every 10 new infections six are young girls a new challenge which me as a Regional Commissioner I am going to start a special initiative to address and make sure we curb it,” he said.