EXIM Bank Tanzania and Tanzania’s National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS), have joined hands to conduct blood donation campaign through the bank’s branches across the country. The campaign is part of Exim Bank Tanzania’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), program called Exim Cares. Exim’s, Head of Marketing and Communication, Mr Stanley Kafu, said the partnership was officially launched yesterday at the bank’s branch in Old Moshi Road, in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region, during the first blood donation drive for 2019. “The partnership is part of an ongoing commitment by Exim for the past eight years in driving blood donation initiatives,” Mr Kafu said. He said the aim of the drive is to contribute to the build-up of blood stock and to create awareness on the importance of donating blood. The campaign was directly correlated to Exim Bank’s mantra, Exim at work, today for tomorrow, that not only speaks to the commitment of the Bank on how it can drive positive changes in the surrounding communities. Mr Kafu said the lender will facilitate the planning and execution of eight blood donation camps in Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Mbeya, Tanga, Mtwara and Zanzibar whereas NBTS will work on the technical aspects. “Furthermore, Exim Bank will organize and conduct awareness programs about blood donation with the aim of motivating people to donate blood and educate on the myths in the process,” Mr Kafu said. NBTS Northern Zone Manager Dr Edson Mollel said they need to collect 526,000 units of blood to meet the annual demand but they managed to collect 307,835 units of blood equivalent to 58 per cent of the requirements. “It’s here that we need people to develop the culture of donating blood in all regions across the country, instead of waiting for an emergency to happen,’’ Dr Mollel said. \Dr Mollel appreciated Exim for joining hands with NBTS for the noble cause of service to humanity. Exim Bank has in the past years alone donated over 100 units of blood to the national.