WITH the prospects of the envisaged Common Market Protocol in sight, the East African Community (EAC) is now prioritising training of immigration and labour officers from partner states. The Secretariat is shifting attention at enhancing knowledge and skills of the officers with a view to boosting their capacity to implement the Common Market Protocol and other border management related matters. EAC’s Principal Labour and Employment Officer Stephen Niyonzima observed that the training of immigration and labour officers was critical in as far as building capacity of the officers was concerned. According to Mr Niyonzima, public service officers were transferable while others retire, hence the importance of provision of regular training to promote efficiency and effectiveness in the management of the free movement of persons and labour within the regional economic bloc. “The EAC Common Market Protocol had on several occasions recommended the need to build capacity of border management officials on the implementation of the protocol among other EAC issues,” explained Mr Niyonzima at the closure of a three-day training of trainers in Moshi last Friday. Article 104 of the Treaty for the Establishment of the EAC provides for free movement of goods, persons, labour, services and capital as well as right of establishment and right of residence. Articles 7 (1) and 10 (1) of the Common Market Protocol guarantees free movement of persons who are citizens of the other partner states within their territories and free movement of workers who are citizens of the other partner states, within their territories. In October 2014, the first training session of immigration officers on EAC Common Market Protocol, ICT and human trafficking was conducted at the Kilimanjaro-based Tanzania Regional Immigration Training Academy (TRITA). The report of the training was considered by the meeting of chiefs of immigration held between May 25 and 29. Among other things, the workshop training sought to enhance the officers’ appreciation of the role of border management agencies in facilitating the growth of the Private Sector and Investment Promotion in addition to acquiring knowledge on detecting fraud in travel documents, and security of documents and investigations. Participants during the three-day training workshop included Immigration and Customs Officers drawn from three border posts namely Namanga, Holili, and Sirari. It also featured labour officers from the ministries responsible for labour in mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar as well as representatives from the EAC Partner States’ Ministries responsible for EAC Affairs.