THE management of KMC FC has revealed that plans to construct own stadium at Mwenge in Dar es Salaam are at advanced level such that soon, the project will hit the ground. This was said by the club’s Chairman of the board Benjamin Sitta through. “On behalf of the entire KMC, I am happy to let it out that we have already identified a site at Kinyago in Mwenge where the stadium will be constructed and if everything goes to plan, then before the end of this year, we will be playing home games there,” Sitta said. He further said aside from building the stadium, they will also renovate the available bus stand at the area to facilitate easy movement of people who will be descending to watch KMC games since it is just 100 metres away. “Hopefully, from next month, we will have a contractor ready at the site and I am impressed with the good work done by my colleagues at the club who are working around the clock to make this dream come true,” said Sitta. He then called all Kinondoni residents to rally behind their team (KMC FC), saying they are free to do anything which can accelerate the team’s development. Commenting on the team strengthening activities ahead of their upcoming busy schedule, Sitta said their target now is to sign more talented players from the country and few foreign players. “As you know, in most cases, our players lack discipline as compared with the foreign players. This is a big challenge which needs collective effort to contain,” he said. Moreover, the chairman challenged other Municipal Councils in the country to establish their own football clubs to accommodate many talented young players. “Skilled players are everywhere around the country. They lack good teams to show their potential as such if each Municipal Council could have a competitive team, we can be assured of a strong national football team,” Sitta noted. Elaborating on the procedures they are doing to get a new coach, Sitta said the technical bench is keenly scrutinizing the available candidates so as to get the best coach to continue where the former Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije left. “We are aware of the big tasks coming ahead bearing in mind that for the first time in the club's history, we will compete in CAF Confederation Cup games as such, the we need to have an experienced coach to help us cope well with the encounters,” he said.