COMPANIES, Non- Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and Community Based Organisations’ (CBOs) failure to comply with the new law within the next two months will lead to their deregistration. Attorney General (AG) Professor Adelardus Kilangi issued the warning in the National Assembly here yesterday while tabling the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No3) Bill, 2019, which was brought under certificate of urgency. The Bill proposes amendments to eight laws—the Companies Act, Cap. 212, the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights Act, Cap. 218, the Films and Stage Plays Act, Cap. 230, the Non-Governmental Organisations, Act Cap. 56, the Societies Act, Cap. 337, the Statistics Act Cap.351, the Tanzanian Shipping Agencies Act Cap.415 and the Trustees’ Incorporation Act Cap.318. According to Prof Kilangi, the proposed amendments intend to keep the respective laws with changes so far observed in their implementation. The new amendments, which the Members of Parliament (MPs) endorsed yesterday evening, propose alterations in the Companies Act to restrict the scope of operation of companies limited by guarantee to promotion of commerce, investment and trade. “The amendments are meant to clearly differentiate companies limited by guarantee from other entities like NGOs, trusts and societies as well as clear overlapping functional powers between the registrar of companies and registrar of NGO’s,” said the AG. The new amendments, according to Professor Kilangi, seek to empower the Registrar of Companies to revoke the company’s registration where the firm has been found dealing in criminal offences or illegal transactions. The companies that are operating as NGOs, trusts or societies have two months to observe the laws or risk having their operational licences revoked. On NGOs, the amendments intend to widen the scope of the functions and duties of the Registrar of NGOs, including the ability to suspend operation of the NGOs that operate contrary to the provisions of the law. Under the new amendments, the Registrar of NGOs is also empowered to investigate and evaluate the activities conducted by NGOs. NGOs, in what appears to be an impediment to them, will now have to make public their audited annual reports as well as have a duty to adhere to the principles of financial transparency and accountability. Several leaders of NGOs have already raised concern over this requirement. The Societies Act is amended to eliminate some anomalies that have been noted, including unharmonised powers of the Registrar of Societies, minister and the president whereby certain provisions in the Act subject powers of the president to the minister. Under the new amendments, which the lawmakers have supported, the Statistics Act has been amended, deleting section 37(4) which provides for punishment to whoever publishes statistical data that intends to invalidate, distort, or discredit official statistics.