The world famous wildebeest migration in Serengeti National Park will stay longer in Tanzania due to the favorable climate condition, Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) reveals. The authority said this to refute statement published in one of the neighboring country’s newspaper that wildebeest migration from Serengeti to Maasai Mara Park in Kenya. Responding to the news, Tanapa’s Senior Assistant Conservation Commissioner, Communications, Pascal Shelutete said: “It is not true that from that for the past two months Serengeti has experienced heavy rains. The rain has been very erratic this year in Serengeti.” Elaborating more, Shelutete said Serengeti is a Migration breeding home as well as a place where migrants stay most of the year. “Out of 12 months of the year Migration utilize 10 months in Serengeti,” told the Daily News as he was as he was rebuffing to the statement that the migration goes to Serengeti only to breed and Maasai Mara in Kenya. The official added few thousands groups were seen in the north part of Serengeti crossing last ten days or so and on Bologonja side but the real migration is still in Serengeti Currently, the wildebeest migration are still in the in the East Central Serengeti in the areas of Nyambogati,  Togolo heading to Lobo and some of them are also in the areas of Maswa, Kirawira and Nyamuma. World Travel Awards (WTA) has voted Serengeti National Park in Tanzania the leading national park in Africa for the year 2019. The Serengeti Park emerged victorious at the WTA award giving ceremony in Mauritius over the last week. This came just a year after SafariBookings.com rated Serengeti the best African Safari Park last year, reflecting continued popularity of the park with safari-goers and industry experts alike. “The award is a mileage to Serengeti as far as attraction of tourists is concerned. It is obvious that many holidaymakers will want to visit the park,” said Senior Assistant Conservation Commissioner, Communication, with Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) Pascal Shelutete.