IT is now official that defender Shomari Kapombe has been dropped from national team, Taifa Stars squad, together with midfielders— Jonas Mkude and Ibrahim Ajib. Stars jetted off to Cairo, Egypt yesterday buoyed with confidence to excel at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. From today, only 14 days are remaining before the commencement of the biggest continental football competition to be staged in Egypt from June 21st to July 19th, where 24 teams will battle it up for the Africa glory. Other players who have been dropped from the squad are Kennedy Wilson of Singida United, Ally Ally (KMC), Khamis Khamis (Kagera Sugar) and Ayoub Lyanga of Coastal Union. “We have dropped seven players to remain with 32 in the list that will travel to Cairo and the squad will further be trimmed down to remain with 23 players for the finals. The team will set up camp in Alexandria and will take on Egypt and either Zimbabwe or Nigeria in their official two build up encounters to shape up the squad as proposed by Amunike. Coach Amunike said the dropped players will remain in camp here in Dar es Salaam, to shape up for the Africa Nations Championship (CHAN). “We know that Kapombe is injured and you also watched the training this morning and you are in a position to see if the players have something tangible to contribute to the team or not…it is not about where the player(s) comes from or which club he is playing for. I’m not interested whether the player is my brother or not, I’m interested with what the player can give to the team. “I’ve to be honest and clear in my judgment. I know you have your interests on whom you like and whom you do not like to be in the team but for me as a coach, all my players are equal. I treat them all in the same manner but if you don’t have discipline you have no room in the team. He insisted that discipline is the key, “I grew up disciplined and I believe without discipline I would not be able to play at the top level up to Barcelona. “Players without characters have no chance of achieving anything good for the team but I believe in the quality of the players in the team. Let’s expend the national team and give the players opportunity. Let’s believe in what we have in the squad,” he said. On whether the team will excel or not in Egypt, Amunike said, “Football has a lot of ups and downs but we at the technical bench are doing everything in our capacity to make sure we go and achieve something positive in Egypt. Packed in group C, the country’s torchbearer will ignite their campaign by facing Senegal on June 23rd before taking on neighbours Kenya on June 27th. Stars will wind up group stage mission by playing against Algeria on July 1st. Stars full squad: Goalkeeper; Aishi Manula (Simba SC), Metacha Mnata (Mbao FC), Suleiman Salula (Malindi SC) and Aaron Lulambo (Tanzania Prisons). Defenders; Claryo Boniface (U20), Hassan Kessy (Nkana FC, Zambia), Vincent Philipo (Mbao FC), Mohammed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni (Simba SC), Kelvin Yondan, Gardiel Michael (Yanga SC), Abdi Banda (Baroka FC, South Africa), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli FC), David Mwantika and Aggrey Morris (Azam FC). Midfielders; Feisal Salum(Yanga), Himid Mao (Petrojet, Egypt), Frank Domayo, Mudathir Yahya (Azam FC), Shiza Kichuya (ENNPI, Egypt), Simon Msuva (Difaa Hassan El-Jadidi Morocco), Farid Mussa (Tenerife, Hispania) and Freddy Tangalu (Lipuli FC). Strikers; Yahya Zayd (Ismailia, Egypt), Shaaban Iddi Chilunda (Tenerife, Spain), Rashid Mandawa (BDF, Botswana), Miraj Athumani (Lipuli FC), Kelvin John (Serengeti Boys), Adi Yussuf (Solihull Moors, England), John Bocco (Simba SC), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura, Algeria) and skipper Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk, Belgium).