JUST a day after police in Arusha arrested some suspected Tanzanite smugglers, the law enforcers have embarked on an extensive search of the entire chain of people behind the malpractice. The manhunt was mounted yesterday as Minister for Minerals Dotto Biteko arrived in Arusha to receive firsthand information on the arrest. Minister Biteko arrived here in the early hours yesterday before he directly headed to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) to see the 958,490,857 /-worth consignments of assorted gemstones, which were seized at Namanga border. The minister was astonished on the act that comes few months after control of mineral business was bolstered and just a fortnight since the mining centre was launched here. The consignment was seized from Perfect Trans Bus Service in 74 different packages, including Tanzanite. Reports from reliable sources have it that those arrested were being grilled and are cooperating in releasing more names of people involved in the crime. Police were informed of the hidden consignment of gemstones and used sniffer dogs in the successful mission. Mr Biteko ordered Arusha Regional Police Commander (RPC) Jonathan Shama to notify Inspector General of Police Simon Sirro to promote police officers who were involved in the operation, thanks to their patriotic acts in safeguarding the country’s natural resources. The minister said he was astonished by the smuggling, which few dishonest people in the illegal chain were conducting, and mud-slinging other mineral dealers who pay taxes. “I am surprised by this incident. It is impossible that you steal gemstones and you want to send them to Kenya; all those who were involved in any way will be dealt with in accordance with the law. There are other people behind this malpractice,” he said, ordering that each police officer involved be paid 5m/- as a reward for the good work. The minister also directed that the informers of the deal be given 5m/- for their patriotism. He called on Northern Zone Mineral Officer to ensure that all gemstones kept in people houses are taken out and put in the proper place as stipulated by Mining Act. In another development, the minister ordered nullification of licences that are family or clan owned, saying each licence should be owned by single person. RPC Shama mentioned the arrested suspects as of yesterday afternoon as Latifa Abdalah (42), a Sakina resident, Josephat Joseph (41), the bus driver and Olasiti resident as well as 36-year old bus conductor Mohamed Mndeme. He said they were arrested at midnight on Tuesday at Namanga, Longido District in the bus with registration number T716 AAC. The gemstones are Tanzanite, Sapphire, Spinel, Ruby, Tourmaline, Tsavorite, Grossular and Aquamarine. Another search was conducted at Majengo area in Arusha where other gemstones were found. The RPC said the operation was extended to Elerai area and the police recovered minerals, which were put in two houses and when the suspects were asked over their licences or permit to store them, they issued one under the name of Hawa Bakari &Company. The licence showed that it was being used by the clan, the system that the minister banned thereafter.