TANZANIA Prison Service in partnership with the Public Service Social Security (PSSSF), has invested in the leather processing sector by establishing a plant at Kilimanjaro-based Karanga Prison, it has been revealed. The processing plant, which is set to kick start operations next October, is expected to produce complete leather products, soles for footwear and tannery for other uses. Speaking to the ‘Sunday News’ yesterday during the on-going 43th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair, Tanzania Prisons Service Deputy Commissioner of Prisons (DCP), John Masunga said the plant will provide a reliable market for skins and hides in the country. He said awareness campaign sessions to livestock keepers have already started to sensitize them on how best to treat their livestock to produce quality raw materials. Speaking about tannery aspect, he said they were planning to process skin and hides and sell them to others who deal in production of leather manufacturing outside Karanga prison. The manufacturing process, he said, will also involve related products, including handbags, wallets, phone covers and belts. At the same time, he said the force has rehabilitated the old leather center in the prison (Karanga) whose production has now increased from 100 pairs of shoes per day to 400. According to him, the coming leather factory’s production will meet the local demands, urging Tanzanians to cultivate a culture of using locally made goods. Commenting on other projects run by the prisons, the DCP affirmed that they have also partnered with the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), to invest in sugar production in the Morogoro-based Mbigiri Prison. He said that over 250bn/- has been invested through Mkuza II Holding Company, where over 891 hectares of land has already been cultivated for sugar cane production. It was estimated that over 50,000 tons of sugar will be produced per year from October 2020, and that at the beginning, the joint company will have raw materials to serve for three months. “Then after that, we will start purchasing raw materials from cane growers from outside.