INDUSTRIES within the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and sports have performed tremendously well in contributing to the economy. Arts and entertainment sector and media sector have been identified as the fastest growing sectors in the country. Tabling the budget estimates for the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Minister, Dr Philip Mpango, noted that in the 2018/19 fiscal year, arts and entertainment sector grew by 13.7percent while media (including information and communication) sector grew by 9.1 per cent. According to him, the arts and entertainment sector has been the fastest sector, overlapping construction sector (12.9 percent) and transport and cargo handling (11.8percent). A report issued last year by Pricewater House Coopers noted that the arts and entertainment sector contributed 496m US Dollars in 2017, an increase of 28.2 percent compared to the 2016 contributions.The report indicates further that the media sector and the arts and entertainment sector will averagely grow by 18.3percent per year by 2022. Commenting on the performance of the sectors, media stakeholders, academicians and economists have pointed out that the media sector is one of strong pillars that boost the country’s economic growth. They said media play a big role directly and indirectly in making sure that the country’s economy grows and that the media sector is among a few sectors that employ a large number of people in the country. Mr Denis Jacob, an economist and lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, noted the growing of the media sector goes along with growth of the country’s economy. He stated that traders and investors need to communicate through advertisements, which are well managed in the media, saying with this trend of media growth in Tanzania, it is obvious the country’s economy is going to grow big in the coming years. “It is obvious that media cannot exist if there are no businesses going on in a certain country. In Tanzania, regardless of the challenges we face, still the media play a big role in boosting the economy. We have witnessed the growing of social media, people are doing business there and pay tax to government,” he noted. A University of Dodoma lecturer, Dr Paul Loisulie, said it was true the media sector has been mentioned as a fast growing sector, which also boosts the country’s economic growth. He said that by recognizing the contribution of the sector, there is a need for all stakeholders to ensure the challenges that face the industry are resolved. “It is very true this sector contributes a lot to the country’s economy and it has grown high in the few past years; however, we need to support it so that it can maintain the pace and do better,” he said. He added that other sectors need to get support so that they can contribute to the country’s economic growth as well. “We need to understand that the growth of any sector depends on the support it gets from the government and other stakeholders; we should also look at that and see how we can move together,” he said. On his side, a University of Dar es Salaam lecturer (School of Journalism and Mass Communication), Dr Zachalia Malima, said media industry has made Tanzania proud. “It is something good to notice this growth, which means a lot to our nation,” he said. He added that for the media to continue doing well there is a need for building capacity to media practitioners so that they can be able to promote Tanzania across the world. He said Tanzania’s tourist attractions could bring more tourists through competent media houses and practitioners.