TANZANIA Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) has warned against improper use of some food packaging materials, especially aluminium foil, saying it may result in food contamination and pose health risks. Speaking in Bagamoyo in Coast Region recently, TFDA Inspection and Food Monitoring Manager Gwantwa Samson said improper use of packaging materials was detrimental to human health as they percolate into foods. She said among the qualities of food packaging was that the particles of the materials used shouldn’t contaminate food to the extent of causing health risks to consumers and shouldn’t spoil food aroma either. "When these packaging materials are used for unintended purposes they may cause health hazards to consumers," she noted. Ms Samson cited the use of aluminium foil in cooking, saying the practice caused a substantial amount of chemicals to be transferred to food wrapped in it. "Aluminium foil is one of the packaging materials used for stuffing cooked food and this is because it can prevent it from going bad," she said. She noted that the heat of cooked food was different from using aluminium foils in cooking or grilling because the high temperature was causing chemicals from the material used to leach into the food. "When aluminium foils are used regularly in cooking chemicals leach into food and when consumed they may accumulate in various body organs, thus causing health risks in kidneys, the brain and lungs," Ms Gwantwa said. She further said that it was also an unhealthy practice to use printed papers for wrapping food with oils or moisture because printing inks might be absorbed into food and cause health haz-ards because they had not been approved as food grade inks. Ms Samson also noted that plastic packaging also comprised chemicals, which might be absorbed into food if used for unintended purposes such as the use of plastic carrier bags for wrapping hot foods or in cooking. She noted that TFDA as a key stakeholder in implementing the government ban on the production, supply and use of plastic carrier bags, would ensure the ban was effectively implemented. She explained that plastic carrier bags had to a considerable extent been being used for carrying and storing food products and that was why TFDA had been identified as among the key stakeholders for the implementation of the ban on plastic carrier bags. Tanzania imposed a total ban on the use of plastic carrier bags effective from June 1, this year. According to Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union Affairs and Environment) January Makamba, the move aims at protecting the environment from choking deadly plastic