VODACOM has issued 27bn/- to M-Pesa customers from profit share distribution accumulated from the Trust Accounts. The leading telco in the country said yesterday through a release that close to eight million started to receive their share of the bonus interest earned as a benefit from using the service. Vodacom Tanzania Managing Director, Hisham Hendi said they are pleased to share M-Pesa interest with customers because they are the reason for the mobile money service success story. “M-Pesa continues to transform the lives of millions of Tanzanians and today’s initiative will see more continue to benefit from it,” Mr Hendi said through a release yesterday. He added: “All Vodacom customers that have been using M-Pesa will benefit from the interest which will be distributed via M-Pesa and deposited directly into their M-Pesa wallets”. The leading telecom provider said the payment will continue from yesterday to the next month and a half. Mr Hendi said the amount that one would receive as their profit share will depend on the level of transactions they had on M-Pesa and their average balance—such activities include transfers, bill payments and airtime purchases to name a few. “I would like to encourage those customers to check to see how much they qualify to receive in this distribution by sending an SMS with the word AMOUNT to 15300,” the Voda chief said. Voda said M-Pesa commands a market share of 38.6 per cent to remain the leading mobile money platform in the country with transaction value of 4.1tri/- a month. “We have strategically invested in M-Pesa in the last decade and the service has grown into a versatile platform responsible for innovative solutions that address real needs of Tanzanians,” Mr Hendi said. Wananchi mainly uses MPesa through products such as M-Koba, M-Pawa, Halal Pesa, and M-Pesa MasterCard and many more. “We remain open and agile to advancing our offering through innovations and partnerships with corporates, innovators and business to drive the financial inclusion agenda in the country,” summed Hendi.