WOMEN in the country have reasons to smile as the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) has introduced fibroid treatment without surgery, thanks to developments in health care technology. The treatment is known as Uterine Fibroid Embolisation (UFE), a minimally invasive procedure used to treat fibroid tumours of the uterus which can cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain and pressure on the bladder or bowel. UFE is a global treatment of the fibroids regardless of size, number, or location. It is a painless, image-guided procedure, the main benefits for women being that the cut is only minimal and they can return to work within a week of the procedure. MNH Head of Radiation department, Dr Flora Lwakatare, said UFE is carried out by an interventional radiologist who inserts a tiny tube at the top of the leg or in the wrist, manoeuvring it through the uterine artery and injecting tiny particles into the arteries that supply blood to the uterus and fibroids. “The particles ultimately block the blood supply to the fibroids, causing them to die and shrink during the procedure. The specialist uses a high-definition x-ray camera to guide him, or her to introduce a catheter into the uterine arteries to deliver the particles,” she elaborated. Dr Lwakatare said the facility in collaboration with Yale, Emory and Dartmouth universities from United States of America has already performed the procedure to one patient. Fibroid tumours, also known as myomas, are benign tumours that arise from the muscular wall of the uterus. It is extremely rare for them to turn cancerous. More commonly, they cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pain in the pelvic region and pressure on the bladder or bowel. On cost of the treatment, she said the availability of equipment will determine that as currently, they are using the one donated by the universities and Buffalo hospital in New York. She said with assistance from the universities, they launched interventional radiology training to MNH doctors and nurses since October 2018 and they have been visiting the country in phases. “The group of doctors we have today is the fourth since this collaboration began in which seven doctors, 13 radiology technicians and nurses has received trainings,” she noted.