THE profile of Tanzania has raised a rung higher, as one of its daughters, Jacqueline Mkindi, has been recognised the woman leader in East Africa. Ms Mkindi, chief executive officer of Tanzania Horticultural Association (TAHA) group, received the prestigious East Africa’s Woman Leadership Award 2019 from the World Women Leadership Congress & Awards on Wednesday at Hotel White Sands, the Beach Resort, in Dar es Salaam. Her selection was based on her leadership in building TAHA and supporting the establishment and management of its subsidiaries as well as personal efforts and commitment to transforming the horticultural industry in Tanzania. Specifically she is credited for building an industry system within TAHA for effective dialogue with the government to ensure an enabling business environment through policy and regulatory reforms in favour of the industry. The awards jury said Ms Mkindi’s leadership record stood out in East Africa’s women as a champion of horticulture, a multi-million dollars industry that employs nearly 2.5 million people across the country. “World Women Leadership Congress & Awards presents East Africa’s Women Leadership Award to Jacqueline Mkindi, Chief Executive Officer, Tanzania Horticultural Association,” writes Dr Aalok Pandit, Executive Director CMO Asia. Dr Pandit says the awards celebrate and acknowledge women leaders, who exhibit the spirit of entrepreneurship, innovation and excellence. The latest award affirmed that Ms Mkindi, who bagged several other prizes in recent years, is a rising star in the agricultural sector in the country with an extra ordinary leadership talent. She received the Tanzanian Women Achievement Award (TWAA) in 2014 as the greatest achiever in the agriculture category followed by Malkia wa Nguvu, the most influential queen award in the agribusiness category in 2017. “I’m humbled. I never knew that the world was watching my steps. I have been working just to help my fellow Tanzanians in horticulture. I didn’t know it has been so loud,” Ms Mkindi noted. She said the award was for all horticultural farmers across the country and her staff at TAHA group who, had been working extra time for the industry to grow. Ms Mkindi or Jacque as she is simply known is a modern flamboyant lady, whose personality and bearing have shaped the multi-million-dollar horticultural industry in the past 13 years. Her efforts of profiling Tanzania horticulture on the international map opens up many opportunities in the industry. United Arab Emirates (UAE) vegetable and fruits market penetration a month ago, where Tanzania will supply 25 per cent of the market value, earning the economy a $425m, is one of Ms Mkindi’s latest initiatives. She is also credited for modernising the horticultural industry in Zanzibar for only six years, uplifting the archipelago from net fresh produce importer to exporter at the moment. For instance, former Zanzibar Minister for Agriculture, Natural Resources Livestock and Fisheries Hamad Rashid Mohamed says in 2017/18 Isles exported a surplus of 543.6 metric tonnes of tomatoes to Mainland Tanzania, fetching 1.2bn/-, thanks to TAHA’s total transformation of horticulture in the Isles. “Indeed, she is an icon of strength and a champion in the horticultural industry,” Mr Augustine Namfua, a young professional, who relinquished a white-collar job and ventured into horticulture, thanks to Ms Mkindi’s inspiration. “She uses her talent for not only raising the profile of the industry, but also for helping us individual horticultural farmers to grow,” explained Mr Namfua, who is behind the Albantinos Vegetables Initiative in Olasiti, Arusha. For any organisation to excel, its leader must build a strong foundation. Ms Mkindi has set a clear direction, structures and rules for TAHA and Group of Companies. “She balances constraining forces with liberating ones and encourages personal growth, development and creativity,” Mr Anthony Chamanga, TAHA Chief Manager for Development said. By promoting an efficient management system, she has managed to build a committed and efficient team, which produces amazing results. Ms Mkindi always moves forward, picturing the future and making things happen. She is actively engaged rather than inactively observing. Strongly believing that a corporate culture must be upheld for TAHA and Group of Companies to thrive, she has successfully instilled it among her team members in exchange for their trust and respect. If anything is denying Ms Mkindi sleep, it is the sustainability of the group. Thanks to her clear focus and creativity for an enabling association to manage its own companies and mobilise resources required for supporting their interventions.