MAINLAND champions Simba yesterday announced the arrival of another Brazilian player-- Gérson Fraga Vieira in the club for the 2019/20 season. Simba released photos of central defender, accompanied by the club’s Board Member, Zacharia Hanspoppe penning a two-year deal with the club. The Brazilian will serve the Msimbazi Reds club for the coming Mainland Premier League season and CAF Champions League. According to a statement released by the club yesterday, the 26- year old Brazilian professional player, Viera has joined Simba from Indian Super League side ATK as a free agent. His contract with the Indian club expired on May 30th this year. The Brazilian defender is said to have leadership qualities, which saw him being handed the captaincy for Brazil’s Under-15 and Under-17 age teams. In the 2009 FIFA Under- 17 World Cup, Gerson was the skipper of the Brazil Under-17 team that comprised the likes of PSG star Neymar, Barcelona’s Philippe Coutinho, Casemiro of Real Madrid and Liverpool goalkeeper Alisson Becker. Gerson, as he is popularly known, is set to bring new impetus and freshness at the heart of Simba defence, especially after Uganda international defender, Jjuuko Murshid decided to part ways with the club. Simba defence wall will now be built with Erasto Nyoni, Pascal Wawa, Yusuf Mlipili, Kennedy Juma, Paul Bukaba and Gerson. Sudanese Sharafeldin Shaiboub Ali can as well play the role. The defender who has appeared in 18 matches this season in Indian Super League, playing a total of 1620 minutes and he was on the pitch and his clean sheets ratio is currently at 22 per cent, which means Gerson has kept a clean sheet in four matches out of the 18 that he has played. The introduction of the Brazilian defender, who began his footballing journey at the age of eight and graduated from Brazil's Gremio Academy in 2012, came about a week after his compatriot Wilker Henrique da Silva also signed a two year deal with Simba. Gerson signing makes a total of three newly foreign players signed by Simba todate. The Msimbazi Reds had also signed Sudan’s topflight league side, Al Hilal towering defensive midfielder, Shaiboub Ali on a one year deal. The Brazilian attacker Wilker Henrique da Silva has also said to feature for Simba next season. He was born in October 1995 and featured in Brazilian Brasilileiro Serie D side Bragantino Clube do Pará alias Bragantino. The Campeonato Brasileiro Série D is the fourth tier of the Brazilian Football League. On local players, Simba have already announced the signing of goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya from Yanga, defender Kennedy Wilson Juma from Singida United and Miraji Athuman from Lipuli. The club has also extended contracts with Aishi Manula, John Bocco, Rwandan striker, Meddie Kagere, Jonas Mkude and Erasto Nyoni.