THE epic East African derby between Tanzania and Kenya in the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) games will help to define the destiny of the two members of the East African Community. The neighbouring countries go face to face on the battle field on June 30th knowing exactly that any drop of points by either team will be a big blow as far as reaching into the next stage of the contest is concerned. Both teams launched their campaign of the 24-team biggest competition in the continent on a backpedal after succumbing to 2-0 defeats respectively from the Africa power houses Senegal and Algeria. However, the EAC block breathed a sigh of relief following good performance displayed by Uganda who overpowered DR Congo 2-0 to go top of their group A pack with 3 points similar to Egypt but the former have a good goal average than the latter. Up next, the Cranes face Zimbabwe on June 26th with one foot high since a win will be a good advantage to sail them through to the other side of the competition and at the same time, Zimbabwe will be forced to play hard to claim tangible results after losing their opening match 1-0 to Egypt. Again, Burundi who are also representing the EAC region in the tournament suffered a setback after a 1-0 defeat from Nigeria despite staging a remarkable performance on the day. They need to resist Madagascar pressure in the upcoming clash on June 27th. However, according to the latest FIFA ranking released on June 14 this year, Senegal who outclassed Tanzania sit at the peak of the African teams list. Uganda are placed on number 16 and managed to upset DR Congo who occupies 5th slot as far as the recent ranking is concerned. Uganda now confronts Zimbabwe who accommodates 26th place. Moreover, 23rd placed Kenya lost to Algeria who are ranked on number 12 on the continent. This reveals that the next match involving Kenya and Tanzania who sit on 36th slot to be a tough tie. Burundi are just one place behind Tanzania at 37th and lost to Nigeria who lately sit comfortably on position 3 on the ladder. Burundi will face Madagascar who occupies position 25 on the Africa teams list.