THE Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) has received a state-of- the-art movable echo machine (Echo Cardiograph) capable of detecting up to 95 per cent of heart complications. The machine donated by Israel-based Save a Child’s Heart (SACH) worth 150m/- can also diagnose patients without necessarily visiting the hospital. JKCI Executive Director, Dr Mohamed Janabi, told ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that the machine had come at the right time as up to 14,000 children were born with various cardiac complications annually. Dr Janabi added that some of the children died from complications due to lack of requisite machines in other health facilities to detect their problems and start treatment. “There are 512 children on a waiting list at JKCI for heart surgery. The echo machine will facilitate early detection in needy children and also unborn babies through diagnosing their mothers,” he said. He added that mothers would be advised on delivery preparations and plan for medication after giving birth. For his part, JKCI Governing Board Chairman, Prof William Mahalu, commended good diplomatic relations between Tanzania and Israel being the main cause of heart surgeons in the country to access specialised training, which had benefited many Tanzanians. “We call for strengthening of these relations because they have made health treatment for children possible. Now children in regional and district hospitals will be reached by this moveable and modern echo cardiograph machine,” he noted. Prof Mahalu expressed gratitude to SACH for donating the machine because there were many children in upcountry regions with heart complications, but they could go to JKCI, adding that the machine would enable children to access the service since it was movable. “The machine has come at the right time because JKCI has initiated an outreach programme to people in upcountry regions, who could not afford to visit the hospital, thus facilitating treatment to more children with heart complications. SACH delegates from Israel and Canada were on a seven-day tour of the country with the mission of learning how JKCI runs its daily activities and training its experts. They will also attend children with heart complications and perform surgery. It is the sixth time for cardiac specialists from SACH to visit Tanzania and attend to children with heart complications in collaboration with Tanzanian specialists.