PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa and former President Jakaya Kikwete have challenged Young Africans to tap from their strong fan- base and make sure that the club is financially stable. Both Majaliwa and Kikwete said Yanga could transform what could potentially be a gold mine underneath - from a marketing perspective and this is their strong fan base and big brand name to collect enough revenue, suffice to run the club, than depending handouts from an individual. Premier Majaliwa contributed 10m/- to be used for rebuilding Yanga as they prepare to come back strongly in the forthcoming season. He also revealed that a renowned businessman, Rostam Aziz has pledged to contribute 200m/- for the club. Majaliwa made the contribution yesterday during the team’s massive fundraising event dubbed ‘Kubwa Kuliko’ held at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam. The event was meant to raise funds to be channeled towards proper running of the one of the oldest clubs in the country. However, Majaliwa urged Yanga to jump into the new system of management and to come up with new ways of sourcing income for the club. “It is not a hidden fact that ensuring smooth operation of any football club worldwide requires enough money, which is used to pay for various expenses within the club. “For a team to compete favourably in local and international competition requires financial stability and this is why club leaders must devise strategies to make sure that club of Yanga stature is financially stable,” Majaliwa said. He also lauded Yanga squad under Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera, for fighting hard in the past season to end on the second place of the league table despite going through economic hardship. “It was a brave fight throughout such trying time which has enabled the team to reach this far to the extent that you will now play in the CAF Champions League next season,” he said. Former President Kikwete, who was the special guest on the day, reiterated that clubs in the country should invest more in youth football development so as to facilitate in creating strong national football teams at all levels. Kikwete contributed 5m/-. “You spend much money buying foreign players, who come here and excel a lot but when the national team is playing, such players (foreign players) are not there hence we have nowhere to turn to,” Kikwete said. Also, the former Head of State called the existing Yanga management to be creative and develop long lasting means of income generation which will enable the club to be self-reliant. “Always make sure that you do your best to come up with the best system of collecting revenues for the smooth running of the team and do away with relying on individuals for help,” Kikwete, a Yanga fanatic said. He also encouraged the team’s management to work hard to bring back the memorable good old days at the club when Yanga used to be the real team of citizens. “We need leaders who will at all-time stand by the team whether the team win or lose. This will help to bring unity and propel the team to prosperity,” he said, while also recalling how he used to help the club in the past including signing players such as Celestine ‘Sikinde’ Mbunga from Majimaji FC of Songea and Yusuf Ismail or Yusuf Bana, who was grabbed under the noise of Simba. During the fundraising, GSM Company pledged to contribute 300m/-, while the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda has given Yanga a plot of land in Kigamboni and said on Monday, the team’s management should visit his office to get official papers of the land. Yanga Chairman, Mshindo Msolla said the club’s Executive Committee has pledged to contribute 50m/-, while the Special Committee formed to steer contributions will also disburse 50m/- . Another pledge of 40m/- came from Members of Parliament who are Yanga supporters and roughly the collection and pledges yesterday stood at 650m/-.