THE Court of Appeal has enhanced to life imprisonment sentence the 30-year jail term imposed on a houseboy, Isaya John, by Karagwe District Court in Bukoba region for raping a daughter of his boss aged eight years. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Stella Mugasha and Rehema Mkuye ruled against John, the appellant, after dismissing his appeal he had lodged to fault findings of the trial court and that of the High Court to uphold both conviction and the jail term. According to them, having revisited the evidences of the victim of rape, they were satisfied that she was a credible witness who testified how she was ravished by the appellant when the two were left alone in the house after the victim’s grandmother had travelled to Dar es salaam. Moreover, the justices observed, the victim had named the appellant at the earliest moment to other witnesses, who noticed that the victim was not walking properly and upon being examined she was found to have actually been sexually abused. “Being an adult entrusted with protection of the victim, his conduct after the commission of the offence points an accusing finger to him and corroborates the evidence to the effect that he was a culprit and that is why he opted to escape after committing the shameful incident,” they said. During the appeal hearing, the appellant had also faulted the High Court of varying the sentence imposed by the trial court by requiring him, in addition to serving the custodian sentence, to pay compensation of 200,000/- to the rape victim. In their judgment, however, the justices of the appeals court faulted the High Court in not enhancing and imposing the lawful sentence of life imprisonment as required by the law after confirming that the appellant raped the victim, who was aged below ten years. “We thus find the fourth ground of appeal not merited and in this regard, we substitute the appellant’s sentence of 30 years with life imprisonment. In view of what we have endeavoured to discuss, we find the appeal not merited and it is hereby dismissed in its entirety,” they declared. It was alleged in the charge sheet that on November 21, 2014 at Kishao village within Karagwe District in Kagera region, the appellant did unlawfully have sexual intercourse with the girl aged eight years (name withheld). The facts show that the victim together with her grandmother and house boy all resided in the same house. The grandmother had travelled to Dar es Salaam, leaving behind the victim and the convict. On the fateful night, while she was in her room, the houseboy went therein and took her to the sitting room. Thereafter, he undressed her shirt and underwear and raped her. In the course of rape, the victim felt pains but could not raise alarm because the house boy had covered her mouth and threatened to kill her if she narrated the shameful incident to anyone. After ravishing her, the houseboy returned her into her bedroom. The following morning, a neighbour having visited the residence of the grandmother noticed that the victim had a bad smell and was not walking properly. She examined the victim and found that her private parts were injured and the victim disclosed to have been raped by the appellant. The disclosure was reported to the police where the victim was issued with a PF3 and was taken to the hospital where the medical doctor who testified confirmed that the victim was actually raped. After the fateful incident, the appellant was arrested at Omurushaka area while in a bid to escape. Having accepted the prosecution’s version as true, the trial court convicted the appellant and sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Aggrieved, the appellant appealed to the High Court where his appeal was dismissed with an order that he be canned ten strokes and pay 200,000/- to the victim.