DESPITE availability of large arable land for wheat farming in the country, farmers harvest only 100,000 tonnes, only 10 per cent of the actual demand of 1,000,000 tonnes, annually. Due to poor wheat harvest in the country, the government is compelled to spend huge amount of foreign currency to import 90 per cent of the na-tional wheat demand. Determined to address the problem of low production, Mbeya-based Uyole Agricultural Research Institute and Milundikwa Agriculture Centre in Nkasi, Rukwa region conducted comprehensive researches, which have discovered five different types of high quality wheat seeds. The newly established wheat seeds have the quality and capacity of producing 15 bags of 100 kilogrammes each per acre and subsequently addressing the shortage of the produce by 90 per cent. Following the remarkable discovery, the country is likely to stop wheat imports in the near future, thanks to the country’s endowment of huge arable terrain for wheat farming. Senior Seeds Researcher and Country Coordinator of Strengthening Agriculture Research and Development (SARD) Project Dr Rose Mongi made the revelation at Chalamwine village at Lyowa Ward in Kalambo District, Rukwa region during the Wheat Farmer Day celebrations. “After testing the five different types of wheat seeds, impressive results were recorded… as per research reports, wheat will now be cultivated on the flat land where each type of the seed varieties can produce 15 bags of 100 kilogrammes each, per acre. Previously the same size of land could realise only five bags of wheat,” she added. Following the remarkable discovery, over 2,000 wheat farmers in Rukwa region will have access to sufficient and quality wheat seeds. Earlier, Lyowa Ward Councillor Leginus Boimanda and a wheat grower, Ms Grace Kusongwa, listed several challenges that farmers face, including poor agricultural inputs and insufficient seed supply. Matai Division Officer Andrew Ngindo who represented Kalambo District Commissioner Julieth Binyura prohibited farmers from growing wheat on the ranges of Ndelemfi Mountain in efforts to curb deforestation and land sliding.