THE High Court in Moshi has appointed three persons as joint provisional administrators of estates of Arusha based prominent mineral dealer, Jubilate Ulomi, who died at Aga Khan Nairobi Hospital in January 2019. They are businessman Werandumi Ulomi and Julius Jubilate, the deceased’s younger brother and son, respectively and the highly disputed wife of the deceased, Zainabu Rashid. Judge Fauz Twaib made the appointment when determining an application lodged by Mr Ulomi. In his ruling dated May 28, 2019, however, the judge pointed out that the appointment of the trio was limited to the “collection and preservation of the estates. Nothing should be done pursuant to these letters without the written consent of all of them.” The judge noted that there was no dispute the deceased, as submitted by Advocate Engineer Joseph Ngiloi from Makoa Attorneys, who is representing the family members of the deceased, left behind an estate that includes a tanzanite mine at Mirerani. There is a house as well in the same area, which comprises an office from which the mining activities are conducted, a residential house and a commercial property in Arusha. The deceased also left behind two infant children, who are still attending school and an older one who is, or supposed to be still in college. Dr Fauz observed also that the parties are in agreement that the three children have a right to inherit their late father’s estate and, thus, a right to be provided with their necessities of life from the proceeds of the estate. “The facts just highlighted are evidence that shows that the properties have to be administered by someone, somehow. The possibility of loss and damage to the properties and moveable properties therein mean that things cannot be left completely unattended,” the judge said. According to him, the three children needed financial assistance and the source of that assistance is their father’s estate. For the time being, he said, rentals from the commercial property are the assured source of income for them, thus, someone has to take care of that aspect as well. Engineer Ngiloi is on record stating that the deceased, who became sick in July 2018, was initially admitted at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC) in Moshi before being airlifted to Aga Khan University Hospital where he died on January 15, 2019. He explained that the body of the deceased was brought back on January 16, 2019 and laid to rest on February 2, 2019. The advocate further submits that the deceased owned ongoing mining business at Mirerani which has several employees, and also has left behind three children, who are at school and need care.