VODACOM Tanzania has said M-Pesa users are transacting over 4.1tri/- a month thus making the platform and data key cash cow for the biggest telco in the country. The firm, which registered total customer growth of 9.6 percent to 14.1 million, said in a statement M-Pesa users for the year ended this March grew by 38.6 per cent to reach 7 million subscribers. Voda’s Managing Director, H isham H endi said M-Pesa revenue grew 14.5 per cent to 333.5bn/-, recording a healthy 9.7 per cent growth in empowered customers transacting on the platform. “The M-Pesa platform continues to open up opportunities for Tanzanians to earn a living registering 620,000 new customers, enabling them to transact through mobile money,” Mr H endi said. Data and M-Pesa were key revenue earner as the listed telco delivers strong full year results. M-Pesa contributed almost one-third of Voda’s total revenue of 1.018tri/- and data revenue increased to 167bn/- which is a 17.9 per cent growth. Mr Hendi said the total revenue were driven by strong growth in M-Pesa, mobile data and messaging revenue to demonstrate an ambition to pioneer inclusive growth through financial inclusion and connectivity. “The power of digital technology continues to connect Tanzanians to live a better today and build a brighter tomorrow,” the Voda chief said. M-Pesa’s performance was also attributed to the “Lipa kwa M-Pesa” merchant solution which simplifies customer payments at the point of sale. The innovation has supported the government’s drive to foster a strong and competitive economy through the 11 000 active merchants that ef-fected 1.1 tri/- in transactions during the year, an astounding increase of 186 per cent. However, the firm called for interventions to establish floor pricing which are critical as current data rates are below cost per MB. According to Voda the country’s MB prices recorded as the lowest in Africa. During the year, Vodacom made a significant investment of 171.4bn/- to advance connectivity and added 322 4G sites and 197 3G sites. On other hand, as expected, the company saw a 51.9 per cent decline in earnings per share to 40/28 as a result of the accounting gain on the sale of equity stake in Helios Towers that was experienced last year. H owever, excluding these gains, the share-based payments that were recognised in the prior year and one-off penalty, earnings per share grew 21.4 per cent. Speaking on Voda’s future outlook, Mr H endi said, “looking ahead, we remain steadfast in delivering on our strategy by targeting an enhanced data user experience across the country, expanding our mobile money ecosystem through new partnerships and services and further investment into our highvalue and youth segments.”