IT’s held that for every successful man there is a woman behind. Flourishing societies therefore believe that women are a formidable force towards development. It’s also understood that a healthier and stronger society is a product of hardworking women and men. Spotting a special role of women in raising families and caring for the communities, civilized societies always respect and hold women highly. That being said and being the case women are therefore supposed to be treated with highest respect in all societies around the globe. In view of the roles and position they play in the communities, they must be cherished and empowered to pursue further roles that will bring about meaningful impact in the communities and the nation at large. Promoting and placing them in decision-making positions, cannot be over emphasized. Over the years there has been a drive in the world to ‘turn the tables’. Women movements across the globe championed and amplified women’s course and their fruits are tangible to date. TGNP Mtandao has played and is continuing to play a crucial role towards that and deserves accolades. In 1975, Mexico City was given the honour to host the first UN Women Conference. As you might be aware, Mexico City is a historical city and a tourist destination. In recent years, however, the sound of it sends chilling trembles to Washington bureaucrats. Although the city is located about 100 miles away from the US, for some reasons, the current US bureaucrats don’t like it but it remains a beautiful and historical City in the world. Whilst in this beautiful City you will enjoy the culture, the food and ‘the people of the land’. Worth noting, the upshot of the conference was that women and feminist movements around the globe were impelled including Tanzania’s TGNP Mtandao. As you might be aware TGNP Mtandao is a gender advocacy non-profit organization and has been in operation for 25 years since its establishment in 1993 . TGNP Mtandao is known for its dynamic and assertive contribution in championing women course as well as those of the marginalized groups in the communities such as youth, disabled and the elderly. Boldly put, TGNP Mtandao is amplifying the concerns of the ‘wretched-of-the earth’ in all fronts. TGNP Mtandao can therefore be said to be the descendant of the Mexico City UN Women Conference. Since this conference things did not remain the same in the world. A seed was sown and communities were enlightened. Poignantly, one noticeable aspect whilst in Mexico City is the presence of women train carriages on the subway as part of the Mexican government effort to protect women from harassment and assaults from uncouth and uncultured men. It may sound weird and perhaps comical, taking into consideration the fact that at the end of the day women don’t live in isolation but a necessary measure. As you might be aware like other people in a community, women feel a sense of belonging to those communities. A mind-boggling question, however, lingers; “Is this how we want our government to do for us to respect women in our families and communities? ” Going back through time and space, women movements were ignited in this city in 197 5. Hundreds of women from all over the world gathered in Mexico City to hammer out a 10-year plan of action to improve the status of women around the globe. Media reports that followed and according to Ms Margaret Bruce, deputy chief of the two week conference, the objective of the conference was among other things, “ to do such a good job that people won’t giggle anymore whenever they talk about women.” Ms Helvi Sipila, the secretary general of the conference, was more specific at a news conference as she listed five areas where men and women ‘differ greatly.’ She was quoted by media reports such as ‘The New York Times’ explaining that the subjects that they thought should receive special attention revolved around issues of political decision making, educational opportunities, economic opportunities, eq ual employment opportunities, and issues of reproduction and sex uality. Thus historically, the year 1975 was announced by the United Nations (UN) 27th General Assembly as the International Women’s Year focusing on promoting equal opportunities between men and women, ensuring full integration of women in development efforts and recognizing the importance of women’s increasing contribution in strengthening world peace. Despite enormous milestones that have been registered, since then there still remains gender disparity amongst societies notably in the developing countries. To pick a few gory, sexual abuse, domestic violence, employment, enrollment, access to health facilities, land and to own properties remain issues of concern. To make the earth a better place for women to live and enjoy, we as a people and a nation must appreciate and hold women highly. This way, we shall proudly build a better and stronger society. J acks Meena, Freelance Media and C ommunications Consultant. E-mail:jmmeena@hotmail.com