NATURAL Resources and Tourism Minister, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, has directed Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), to promote new tourism products to attain the government’s goal of two million visitors per year by 2020. Speaking during the launch of TTB, whose term had been extended to another three years, on Tuesday the minister cited the new tourism products as conference tourism, cultural tourism and coastal tourism. “Promoting the new tourism products will also increase the number of days spent by tourists in the country. As regards coastal tourism, for instance, our country has the potential for these three classifications. You must utilise this opportunity,” stressed the minister. Dr Kigwangalla said TTB should increase the promotion of tourist attractions available in the country to TTB’s strategic countries, mentioning those countries as Australia, Russia, China, India and gulf countries. The latter, also known as the Arab states of the Persian Gulf or the Arabian Gulf are Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, according to World Population Review 2019. “Some of the gulf countries have historical ties with our country. TTB can utilise this advantage to attract more visitors from the countries. For some of them we share similar cultures with us,” he noted. The minister reminded TTB the talks with Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL), to introduce direct flights from Australia to Tanzania to increase the number of tourists. “I am not aware of the progress of these talks with ATCL. But, ATCL can play a great role in the matter to attract more visitors from Australia,” said Dr Kigwangalla. TTB Board Chairman Judge (rtd), Thomas Mihayo said TTB had registered great achievements for the past three years, saying it had recently facilitated the attraction of more than 1,000 tourists from Israel. “We have managed to reduce the debt facing TTB from 5.2bn/-to 1.2bn/-for the past three years,” he added. For his part, Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Constantine Kanyasu commended TTB for great achievements, saying the country had witnessed an upward trend in tourism for the past three years under the current board. “We are proud of TTB for boosting the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism in this regard,” said the deputy minister