ON Thursday morning I received an SMS message from a friend, informing me about the passing of Dr Rajni Kanabar, one of the people that have left a mark in my heart. He died in Dallas Texas at the age of 79 last Thursday, and funeral arrangements were being held in the same city where most of his relatives and family members live. Most people admit that Dr Kanabar’s life mission was to create miracles through his passion of selfless service, power of giving, commitment, belief in himself and belief in God. He vividly showed this talents to me almost 14 years ago, when my son Prosper fell sick and was prescribed some medication by a young doctor at a hospital in Dar es Salaam which I did not trust. While in that confusion, a friend sent me Dr Kanabar’s number at around mid night, and when I called him, he told me to immediately take my child to his health facility where he treated him for free. I had to call Dr Kanabar after my efforts to call a doctor I knew working at Muhimbili Medical Centre to help me proved futile, who surprisingly ended up accusing me of disturbing his sleep. Born on 9th November 1940 in Mwanza, Dr Rajni Kanabar is among third generation of Indian origin who has left a legacy to the rest of Tanzanians. As Medical Practitioner MBBS (Ahmedabad,India), DCH (Dublin, Ireland), Dr Kanabar possessed an exemplary record of community services that many people in Dar es salaam, especially the poor have enjoyed. In 1979 Dr Kanabar is remembered to have pioneered the ‘Tanzania Heart Babies Project’, which today continues its invaluable, lifesaving work to date under the phase wise banner of Mwanza Round Table, International Heart Relief Foundation of USA, Ministry of Health of Tanzania and Zanzibar, Tanzania Heart Foundation and Lions Club of Dar Es Salaam (Host) at Regency Medical Centre Ltd. Regency Medical Centre has won accolades among medical practitioners and Dar es Salaam residents in organising trips for advanced medical treatment and open heart surgery. In fact, it requires more than the ordinary human compassion to do what Dr Kanabar has done to Tanzanians irrespective of their religious, race or ideological affiliation. “Many lives have been saved by the services provided by his medical centre because open heart surgery for a long time was the most expensive medical treatment all over the world but when offered under huge subsidy, the practice deserves praise”. Children’s lives have been saved after undergoing open heart surgery in India, trips which were organised by the Regency Medical Centre. Hundreds have benefited from this less expensive arrangement, and after the death of Dr Kanabar, I think other hospitals should do the same and give serious consideration to humanity. One of the great jobs that Dr Kanabar did was in 2014 when he offered Mega Cardiac Screening Camp for infants and children born with Repairable Heart Defects and youths with Rheumatic Valvular Heart Diseases. Over 3,700 highly subsidized heart surgeries have also been performed in India as a result Dr Kanabar’s successful fundraising and facilitation. Spanning more than three decades, Dr Kanabar held roles including Founder Chairman of the Regency Medical Centre, former Chairman of Mwanza Round Table, 41 Club, Lions Club of Dar es Salaam (Host), Association of Private Hospitals in Tanzania and a Founder Steering Committee Member of India Tanzania Friendship Association. He secured financial backing and support from a huge list of national and international partners from Former First Ladies and Presidents of Tanzania and the Late Former President Dr Abdul Kalam of India to Political Stalwarts, Diplomats, Philanthropists, Indian legendary Film Stars like Dilip Kumar, Salman Khan, Corporates, Foundations, Airlines and Student bodies. May he rest in eternal peace.