YOUNG Africans have been excited by reports that they will compete in CAF Champions League next season. A statement released yesterday by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Information Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, confirmed that Tanzania will be represented by four teams in the 2019/2020 CAF Club Competitions. This followed Simba’s qualifications to the quarter finals of the CAF Champions league, earning Tanzania 15 points, which added up to Yanga’s three points they earned for reaching group stage of CAF Confederation Cup in the previous season to make total points earned by Tanzania to 18. According the five year CAF rule, Tanzania is now ranked 10th from among 12 countries that are allowed to enter four teams. Ndimbo said the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has confirmed that Tanzania will be represented by two teams in CAF Champions League (CCL) and two teams in the Confederation Cup (CCC) in 2019/20 season. Clarifying further, Ndimbo said Simba, who are the Mainland champions and second placed Yanga will compete in the Champions League, while Azam FC, who won the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and KMC, who finished fourth in the top flight league will be the country’s envoys in Confederation Cup. Ndimbo said that the decision to pick Yanga and KMC to join the country’s authorised representatives in CAF interclub tournaments was made by the TFF Executive Committee due to the amendment made by the committee on regulation of the Mainland Premier League. Reacting to the latest CAF decision, Yanga’s Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela was elated with the news, saying the club will do everything in its capacity to excel at the continental top tier club’s championship. “We’ve received this news with pleasure and we are ready to make our presence felt in the Champions League,” he said, adding that already Yanga had initiated recruiting top quality foreign and local players to strengthen the squad. “Initially, our target was to recruit top quality players to help the team achieve the set bar, which is to win the Mainland Premier League next season as well as excelling in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), but now our focus will also be in recruiting players capable of competing at the top level in Africa,” he said. So far, Mwakalebela said, Yanga have already recruited at least six foreign players and the exercise was still on going. The club, he said has also earmarked and recruited few local based players to fill in the vacuum left by players, whose contract expired. Foreign players who have already inked a deal to feature for Yanga next season are Erick Rutanga from Burundi, Patrick Sibomana (Rwanda), Lamine Moro (Ghana), Issa Bigirimana (Rwanda), Maybin Kalengo (Zambia) and Farouk Shikalo (Kenya). Yanga are also said to be targeting the signature of former Simba attacker, Burundian Laudit Mavugo. Local players who are reportedly to have signed deal with Yanga include Abdulaziz Makame (Zanzibar), Ally Sonso (Lipuli FC) and goalkeeper, Metacha Mnata from Mbao FC. Reacting to an increased number of teams in CAF tournaments, TFF president Wallace Karia called on all four clubs to be careful in recruiting top quality players to ensure that Tanzania maintain the number of four teams in the continental club champions for many years to come. And, according to Ndimbo, CAF has already opened the registration transfer window for clubs which are going to represent their countries in the two continental major football events at the club level through the Competition Management System (CMS). He further said that the regulatory deadline for TFF to submit the engagement of clubs to compete in the interclub tournaments is set of June 30th this year. The registration transfer window deadline is at the end of this month and TFF is required to confirm the club which will represent the country in the 2019/20 season of the CAF tournaments before the closing date in the CMS.