CHINA has given Tanzania a 60bn/- grant, which the government has the discretion to spend on funding any development project. And, as part of her efforts to upgrade heath care in Tanzania, China has also issued another 350m/- grant to finance feasibility study for the expansion of Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) to transform it into an African centre of excellency. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba Kabudi and Vice-Chairman of China Cooperation Agency Zhou Liujun signed the grant contracts here yesterday. And, immediately after the signing, Prof Kabudi who is in his first trip outside Africa since he was appointed into the office in March, this year, said the government appreciates that the grants have come with no condition attached. “This reflects promises that were made by Chinese President Xi Jinping that China will never interfere with internal matters of any country, the Chinese are indeed walking the talks,” he told ‘Daily News’. Regarding the JKCI expansion, the minister said Chinese experts will arrive in the country anytime soon to start the work. In 2018, JKCI topped the list of Africa’s cardiac hospitals with the record number of heart surgeries, which reached 1,356. With the plans underway, the number of patients receiving treatment at the facility will further increase. The pacts were signed immediately after Prof Kabudi concluded the talks with his host, Chinese minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi. In their talks, the two diplomats discussed issues that will enhance the diplomatic ties between two countries and priority areas of cooperation to be implemented by both sides. Other areas of priorities that were discussed include construction of hydroelectric power generating stations at Ruhudji dam, with 358 MW and Rumakali’s 222 MW, totaling 580 megawatts. The dams are situated in Iringa and Njombe regions. China also has pledged to support Tanzania on construction of infrastructure at the government city in Dodoma. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Minister Wang described Tanzania as China’s unique friend and used the platform to commend President John Magufuli for his efforts to fight corruption and construct strategic development projects for the greater interest of the country. He assured that the Chinese government will strongly consider the hydro power projects constructed in Tanzania because adequate supply of power is the backbone of economic growth of any country. “The government of China is happy with the cooperation between our two countries…we have done many things together,” said Prof Kabudi. The Chinese minister also cited construction of the leadership college at Kibaha District, Coast region, for training of leaders from all Southern African Development Community (SADC) member countries.