ABOUT 1, 000 drivers have been awarded with Capacity Building certificates after attending a two day’s training that aimed at increasing their competence to become reliable, and healthy transporters. Presiding over yesterday at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) grounds, Tanzania Head of Supply Chain, World Food Programme (WFP) Mr Riaz Lodhi said: “There are many opportunities in Tanzania, especially along the Tanzania Corridor, where goods from the country’s port are taken to land locked countries requiring transporters…with such training drivers’ efficiency and reliability would be guaranteed. “Many of the drivers forsake their health including hygiene and nutrition, and lack knowledge on how to conduct themselves, when they meet traffic police and border control officers, and hence experience unwanted delays.” The training was also based on assisting the motorists to be aware and take precautions on their health issues especially once they were on transits. “Drivers have to be cautious on diseases like HIV/AIDS, or Ebola and take preventive measures. This sector requires one to have strong and competent drivers, which transport companies depend on for the sector to grow,” pointed out Mr Lodhi. He further said that the initiative was a collaborative effort initiated by University of Dar es Salaam Business School (UDBS) and United Parcel Service (UPS). However, he urged more transporters and related companies to enroll their drivers in such trainings, because it was benefiting them all. The Deputy Minister of Transport Mr Atashasta Nditiye, attending also as the guest of honour and handing over the certificates pointed out that the training would increase the capabilities of the motorists to be watchful while on highways. “These drivers face a lot of challenges from the moment they get their cargo at the port and transport them to respective destinations. They face a lot of unnecessary delays in the course and exposing them to such trainings would help reduce unnecessary time wasted on the way,” he added.