EAST Africa’s private sector has commended President John Magufuli’s decision to meet businesspeople from all districts and regions to jointly deliberate on business impediments in the country. East African Business Council (EABC) Executive Director Peter Mathuki, in an interview with ‘Daily News’ here yesterday, applauded President Magufuli for his efforts to engage the private sector in improving the country’s business environment. “The move is worth emulating, it shows his determination to eliminate the obstacles and frustrations that businesspeople face in the region,” Mr Mathuki observed, challenging other East African Community (EAC) member states to imitate their Tanzanian counterpart. He said there is still more to do to improve the business climate in the region. “With non-tariff barriers and other obstacles proving hard to crack, other presidents in the EAC need to emulate Dr Magufuli’s initiative,” he said. At his meeting with the businessmen and women at the State House last Friday, President Magufuli pointed out a number of key issues that he said were derailing efforts to improve the country’s business environment. He lambasted both stateowned institutions and the business community for creating an unfavorable business climate. Meanwhile, the apex body of private sector associations and corporates in the East African region said it will effective next fiscal year visit all border points to address hurdles at the entries and exit points. The EABC admitted to be aware of the challenges that small and big businesses were grappling with, saying the visits aim at addressing them. The Arusha-based EABC was established with a single purpose of driving the EAC integration process through trade and investment. The council, to achieve the goal, works with the public sector, EAC institutions, the academia and the business community to unlock economic potentials through increased physical access to markets, enhanced trade environment and improved business competitiveness.