MORANS, Nyangulo and Laigwanans are three Maasai age set groups confirmed to run in the maiden Monduli Maasai Marathon later this month. They will join the long list of other local athletes for the event set to raise dust in Monduli District on the June 29th this year, featuring more than 1,000 runners. The first ever marathon, organised by the Non-Profit ‘Live-High’ firm, will be flagged off from the Monduli Police grounds in the district. The 42km race that has already attracted participants from other countries, fills the vacuum left in Monduli by the Sokoine Marathon which used to take place in the district, but now shifted base to Arusha City. The Executive Director of ‘Live-High,’ Constantine Shayo said the grand run, running under the theme of ‘Monduli Kuzuri,’ will be staged in three categories, starting with the main event of 21km Half Marathon dubbed ‘Moran Race,’ that will involve the more energetic youth and abled men. Next will be the ‘Nyangulo Race,’ for children and this will be split into two groups; those aged between 6 to 10 years and the older ones aged between 11 and 14 years who will race in 2.5km race but starting at different times. Isabela Mwampamba, the director of Upendo Friends’ Education Institute, said her organisation will award prizes to young runners. “The awards will come in none-monetary prizes of a high value,” she explained. The Monduli Maasai Marathon, as the name implies, treads the tradition grounds where again the older and ‘most respected’ elders are also expected to run in the ‘Laigwanan’ category which is essentially a fun race targeting to enhance health through exercises. According to the event’s coordinator, Humphrey Alfred Nyuchi, the marathon is being supported by, among others, the Monduli-based, CAS Microfinance Institution and Upendo Friends. “This is the first ever marathon event to issue trophies to the winning entries, as well as medals and cash prizes,” he said. The Executive Secretary of Arusha Athletics Association (AA), Alfred Shahanga said the Monduli Maasai Marathon debuts with a bang, because despite being the first event, it has already attracted runners from other countries. “It is going to be among the top, prestigious events to come from Arusha, reinforcing the fact that, the Northern Zone is the oasis of long distance runners in the country,” he maintained. Other than the basic racing events, the Monduli Maasai Marathon will also include cultural exhibitions, traditional dances as well as live music performance from the Mwenge Jazz Band.