CONGOLESE business community using Dar es Salaam Port have asked the clearing and forwarding agents to work aroundthe- clock in order to match with the port’s working system. The Dar es Salaam port has for the past three years now work under 24-hour system, a move which has increased efficiency of the port. The 24/7 working system aims at solving challenges which customers were facing in importing or exporting their goods. Speaking with the ‘Daily News’ recently, the Business Congolese International (BCI), which protects interests of the Congolese businesspeople in the country, said since the 24/7 system was introduced their members now are relieved from the storage charges. “In past, one could incur storage charges only because he delayed to make payment within working hours during day time, but now they can pay at any time,” BCI president, Mr Mukendi Kabobu Godefroid said. However, he noted that there were some clearing agents that do not work at nights. “The Dar es Salaam port 24/7 system would be more meaningful should all clear and forward agents also work under the same system,” president of the BCI, Mr Mukendi Kabobu Godefroid, stated. He said there was a need to educate the agents over importance of imitating the same system in order to make the newly introduced working system at the port more efficient. Mr John Kapeta, also senior official with the BCI, noted that the government has been very cooperative in addressing hitches facing the Congolese importers. “We always conduct meetings with the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications as well as Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) once things are not well and results of the meetings have been always positive,” he thanked the government. Working around-the-clock was among the areas which were improved by port and its stakeholders as a result of implementing the directive by the President John Magufuli. President Magufuli wanted all port stakeholders to operate 24/7 so as to fasten cargo clearance. The directive was given because the efficiency of the port can facilitate the economic growth of Tanzania and for all countries which use Dar es Salaam port.