BUSINESSMAN Chandulal Walji appeared before Ilala District Court last week charged with corrupt transaction. The 68-year old Walji was accused of bribing the Head of Legal Department of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) with 200,000/-. Before Resident Magistrate Samwel Obas, the businessman who resides at Sea View area along Kimara Street denied the charge. The magistrate granted him bail on conditions of securing two reliable sureties, each signing the 2m/- bond. The case was adjourned to June 24, 2019 when it will come for mention. The prosecution, led by Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Officer Veronica Chimwanda, informed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. It was alleged that the businessman who owns Motrax Company, committed the offence on May 29, 2019 at the Central Park Café-Sea View area within Ilala Municipal Council in the Dar es Salaam. The prosecution alleged that the accused gave 200,000/- to G oodlack Mwangomango, CCM’s Head of Legal Department to induce the officer to assist on his contract with the ruling party, which was coming for review on the meeting which was held on May 29, 2019. PCCB Bureau Chief of Ilala Region Christopher Myava was quoted by the media as announcing the arrest of the businessman in connection with the crime last week. He told reporters that Walji, who is a tenant in one of CCM commercial areas, was nabbed while issuing the bribe. “As you know, CCM under its National Chairman has ordered verification of all party assets. Therefore, the businessman had agreed with the lawyer of the ruling party to give him a favour in the tenancy agreement with CCM,” said the PCCB officer. The bureau chief explained that among the party assets include the plot on which the accused is the tenant. He said the shameful event happened when the parties were in the meeting, going through recommendations by the committee that reviewed CCM assets. It is alleged that the property involved is a Shopping Arcade along Haile Selassie Road, Oysterbay in Dar es Salaam is estimated at 4bn/-. More claims suggest that the accused, along with his brother Dhirajlal Walji, had entered into agreement to develop the plot over 15 years ago. However, it is claimed that no developments were made as per agreement. It is alleged that the duo have been collecting rent from Shrijees Supermarket, which operates in the two floors of the incomplete building. CCM had directed the countrywide audit and assessment of all its properties that had not been developed as per agreement to be returned. According to PCCB, Walji was caught trying to compromise with CCM official to allow him to continue using the property. It is alleged further that misconduct was in direct contravention of the directives of the ruling party’s National Chairman President John Magufuli. In December 2017, Dr Magufuli ordered the committee he formed to question anybody it deems necessary in tracking and verifying the party properties, insisting the exercise to unveil people who owns party properties, values and collections. Dr Magufuli asked CCM members and all citizens to cooperate with the committee. “I want CCM properties to benefit the party; I want you to grill anyone... being a leader, member or business person, anyone...” the national chairman directed.