THE government said it is working closely with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to ensure that national football team Taifa Stars get all necessary preparations prior to the start of Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. From today, only 16 days are remaining before the commencement of the biggest continental football competition to be staged in Egypt from June 21st to July 19th, where 24 teams will battle it up for the Africa glory. Packed in group C, the country’s torchbearer will ignite their campaign by facing Senegal on June 23rd before taking on neighbours Kenya on June 27th. Stars will wind up group stage mission by playing against Algeria on July 1st. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Director of Sports in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuf Singo said they are leaving no stone unturned as far as facilitating Taifa Stars preparations is concerned. “We are on the front pedal, working abreast with TFF to give our team necessary support as they aim to make a big history in the upcoming AFCON tournament,” Singo said. He also revealed that very soon, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe will unveil a special programme aimed to raise awareness to the entire public about the eagerly awaited competition. “Let me urge Tanzanians to be patient at this time as we are doing everything possible to boost the team’s preparation,” he said. Furthermore, Singo insisted that Taifa Stars camp to be pitched in Egypt as recommended by Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike, remains unchanged and the team is set to depart for Egypt any moment. He then called players to use well this platform saying it has come for them to showcase their hidden football potential to the entire world and stand a chance of being picked by scouts who may be interested in them. TFF President, Wallace Karia said that everything was in place for Stars to jet off for Cairo, Egypt tomorrow where they will be engaged in two friendlies before the beginning of the contest. Taifa Stars will take on Egypt and either Zimbabwe or Nigeria in their official two build up encounters to shape up the squad as proposed by Coach Amunike. In another development, Taifa Stars midfielder Himid Mao who plays for Egypt’s Petro Jet FC will join his teammate right there. This was confirmed by TFF Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo who said Mao will link up with the team in Egypt where the competition will be staged. Meanwhile, some fans have picked Star’s duel against Kenya as the most difficult match in group C. “We can accept to be defeated by Senegal and Algeria but not against Kenya. The fact that we are neighbours does not stop us from hammering them. We will divert our energy onto them to take vital three points,” said Peter Andrew from Dar es Salaam