THE Minister of State in President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local government) Selemani Jafo expressed his anger over poor revenue collected by Sumbawanga District Council, saying there was embezzlement of public funds by dishonest accountants. Accordingly, Mr Jafo directed Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo to investigate Sumbawanga District Council accountants, vowing to reveal to him their names. Giving reasons why the council had failed to deliver in venue collection, Mr Jafo pointed an accusing finger at “some corrupt accountants from Sumbawanga District Council Executive Director’s Office.” He said, “they have given machines to revenue collectors in villages, but the machines have not been connected to the council’s monetary system.” “This means a significant portion of domestic revenue has ended in the pockets of dishonest accountants for their personal interests... I have their names and I will give them to you for further action, including investigation as soon as possible,” he told the RC. Mr Jafo issued such directive during the launch of USAID/ Lishe Endelevu Project yesterday in Kizitwe Ward in Sumbawanga Municipal Council at national level to boost sustainable nutrition in Tanzania. Lishe Endelevu, funded by the US government through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and implemented by Save the Children, exhibits long-standing partnership between the US government and Tanzania in the pursuit of improving the lives of Tanzanians. Nevertheless, Mr Jaffo commended Sumbawanga Municipal Council for becoming among the best councils in the country in revenue collection. “Sumbawanga Municipal Director (Jacob Mtalitinya) you really deserve my congratulation for the well-done job. You did good job also when you were Nzega District Council Executive Director before being promoted as the municipal council director in Sumbawanga and in a short period you have made it,” he added. In another development, Mr Jafo warned 21 councils in the country of failure to implement government directives of setting aside 1,000/- for each child aged under five from its domestic revenue collection, saying it impeded government efforts to fight against stunting and malnutrition in the country. Latest statistics show that four councils in Rukwa Region have collected a combined domestic revenue of over 5.8bn/- from its various sources from July 2018 to March this year. The revenue collections is equivalent to 66.34 per cent of over 8, 817,630,000/- of the estimated amount to be collected during the 2018/19 financial year. As per latest statistics Sumbawanga Municipal Council has collected 2,424,032,802/71 (equivalent to 110 per cent of the estimated 2,212,104,000/- followed by Nkasi District Council which has managed to collect 1,648,366,404/13, equivalent to 72 per cent of the estimated target of 2,304,000,000/-.