THE UN refugee agency has appealed to the global community to recognise the importance of searching for workable and durable solution to the refugee plight in many parts of the world. Speaking to mark World Refugees Day in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, UNHCR Country Representative Chansa Kapaya said it was high time to recommit to finding solutions to world’s displaced persons. “Looking at figures in the just-released global trends report, the overall growth in displacement continues exceeding the rate at which solutions are being found for people, who become displaced, “ she noted. Ms Kapaya said the global compact on refugees (GCR) objective was to support conditions in countries of origin for return in safety and dignity. “Refugees want sustainable long-lasting peace for them to make a decision to voluntarily return to their home countries.” GCR is an approach set to transform the way the world responds to mass displacement in refugee crises benefiting both refugees and host communities. UNHCR has welcomed Tanzania’s support and confirmation of its commitment to the approach. World Refugee Day is marked on June 20 every year to raise public awareness about the conditions and problems that refugee faced in their lives. The theme for 2019 is ‘Step With Refugees — Take A Step on World Refugee Day.’ She said the day aimed at honouring the generosity of countries that provided refuge to people in need like Tanzania, who for decades had generously cared for refugees. Tanzania at the end of May hosted 312,152 refugees, the majority of them hosted by Kigoma Region were 269,536 refugees and asylum seekers mostly from Burundi and DRC, live. Minister for Home Affairs Kangi Lugola said the government had already got funds from development partners that would be used to assist returnees. Mr Lugola said more than 10,199 refugees from Burundi were ready for voluntary repatriation and 2,000 refugees would be transferred weekly. On environmental degradation, he said the international community should partner with the government to provide an alternative source of energy. “An environmental impact assessment conducted in refugee camps establishes that vegetation has lessened from 74 per cent in 1990 to 31 per cent in 2016,” he noted.