WHILE others are still waiting for the golden opportunity, the national golf team coach and a professional golfer Fadhil Nkya has recorded his fifth hole-in-one. Just two days after leading the national team to finish third in the African Region 4 Golf Championship in Bujumbura, Burundi, Nkya returned to Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam with a hole-in-one score. He has scored a remarkable hole-in-one at par 72 Lugalo course on a hole number 9 on Wednesday afternoon. Noel Mheni, also from TPDF Lugalo Club recorded double hole-in-one at Morogoro Gymkhana and TPC Clubs. “I think it is because he experiences the test and joy of hole-inone recent and did twice within a period of two months. “Pro Fadhil Nkya hit hole in one at Lugalo, during a practice round when preparing for the Chairman Trophy 2019,” said Mheni. Speaking to this paper joyful Nkya confirmed to have netted the hole-in-one on hole number 9 during practice round. Nkya said it was his career’s fifth hole-in-one since he started playing golf over twenty years ago. In his way to hole to the feat, Nkya said he hit it with TITLEIST ball number 6 at par-3 no. 9 using 9 iron (9 club). National team coach was more than happy to hit his fifth hole-inone in his career. This might console him after rare missing a chance to play in the final and lift East African title as coach.But he has already won it as player when Tanzania won it in Arusha in 2002. “I also had hole-in-one at Walt Disney Golf Club, Orlando, Florida in USA, Moshi Gymkhana Club and two others at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC),” he explained. “I feel more than ready now, my game has improved much in recent months, I can’t wait to compete among other top African players and win big prize,” he said. Nkya added that he was preparing for Lugalo Chairman Trophy, but his long focus is Karen Masters to be held in Kenya later this month. He said Kenya’s Karen Tournament is one of the most difficult tournaments since it draws together top East African golfers.