THE Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Seleman Jafo has expressed his displeasure over the prevalence of malnutrition in four regions, which lead in food production in the country. The minister said it was not only a disgrace, but also embarrassment for the four regions renowned for high crop yield, to be having diseases related to severe malnutrition. Mr Jafo made such remarks during the launch of USAID/ Lishe Endelevu Project yesterday in Kizitwe Ward, Sumbawanga Municipal Council, at national level in efforts to boost sustainable nutrition in the country. Among the attendants were regional commissioners from Iringa, Songwe and Katavi. The minister mentioned the four regions as Rukwa, Dodoma, Iringa and Morogoro, which were implementing the first phase of USAID/Lishe Endelevu Project entitled “Lishe Endelevu kwa Maendeleo ya Uchumi wa Viwanda” (Sustainable Nutrition for the Development of Industrial Economy). Equally Mr Jafo called upon the regional commissioners of the four regions to engage in soulsearching in relation to having a large number of residents suffering from severe malnutrition, leading to an increase in the number of stunted children. Expounding on that the minister noted that as per Tanzania Demographic Health Survey (TDHS), severe malnutrition was a big challenge in the four regions of Iringa, Morogoro, Rukwa and Morogoro. “Rukwa Region has recorded 56.3 per cent of stunted children under five followed by Dodoma (41.6 per cent), while Morogoro is having 33.4 per cent. While Morogoro region is leading having 65.7 per cent of children under five suffering from blood deficiency, it is followed by Rukwa with 53.4 per cent, Dodoma has 48.3 per cent as Iringa has recorded 40.3 per cent,” noted the minister. “As per different schools of thought excessive alcohol drinking in men is one of the key factors of severe malnutrition in the four mentioned regions,” added the minister. Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo said leaders as well as residents in the region were optimistic that the USAID/Lishe Endelevu Project would reduce stunting in children, by increasing the proportion of children with regular healthy meals as well as improving nutrition in women of childbearing age. For her part, Lishe Endelevu Chief Executive Officer, Dr Joyceline Kaganda, noted that severe malnutrition was still a big challenge in the country. USAID Mission Director Andrew Karas said the US government joined the government of Tanzania to recognise the importance of having healthy children for they were future leaders of Tanzania. “Improved nutrition will give Tanzanian children an opportunity to realise fully their potential in health, education and productivity,” said Mr Karas. He further said in addition to improving delivery of nutrition services, Lishe Endelevu project would support water, sanitation and hygiene activities to support improved nutrition. “This includes increasing access to nutritious food by promoting nutrient-rich crops, improved technologies as well as livestock rearing,” added Mr Karas.