ABOUT 10,000 young people will benefit from the second phase of a special skills development programme set to begin in October this year, whose thrust is to address the problem of unemployment. The programme to be undertaken under the coordination of the Prime Minister’s Office, has become the basis for developing human capital and expanding economic opportunities for more currently unskilled young Tanzanians. The disclosure was made here over the weekend by the Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office for Policy, Labour, Employment, Youth, Parliamentary Affairs and Disabled, Mr Anthony Mavunde, who said that so far, 3,399 individuals had benefited from a pilot project. “The government, through the programme, deploys young people to Don Bosco technical institutes and VETA (Vocational Education and Training Authority),” said the deputy minister while addressing University of Dodoma (UDOM) students during CNMS Day. The CNMS Day is an annual event which is organised by UDOM’s College of Natural and Mathematical Sciences (CNMS) to showcase research works and innovations conducted by students. Mr Mavunde explained that the government covers tuition fee, accommodation and provides the programme beneficiaries with subsistence cash while undertaking studies at VETA and Don Bosco technical institutes. “Most of the programme beneficiaries from the first phase have landed jobs at Yapi Merkezi in the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) construction project,” he revealed. Mr Mavunde further explained that the programme facilitates attachment of graduates to public and private institutions to enable them acquire work experience. Upon completion of the attachment, they are given certificates, he said. “The graduates will attach the certificates while applying for particular job as evidence of working experience,” he said. Mr Mavunde noted that a recent study shows that over 51 per cent of university graduates in East African universities are half baked in terms of working skills, posing a serious challenge for them to get jobs. On his part, the principal, Prof Said Vuai, said the idea of CNMS Day sprang out of the need to encourage students to become innovative and enable them make a critical input into the country’s industrial economic status drive. Prof Vuai said CNMS provides the students with a platform to showcase their research works and innovation, adding that the event encourages them to be more innovative.