CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi’s (CCM) National Executive Committee (NEC) held its ordinary meeting in Dar es Salaam yesterday and among others appointed Munde Tambwe to the party’s Central Committee (CC). President John Magufuli chaired NEC meeting approved names of candidates seeking various electoral posts in the party, its wings and government. According to a statement that the party’s Secretary for Publicity and Ideology, Mr Humphrey Polepole issued late last evening, NEC members nominated Omar Zubeir Mbwana, Elizabeth Andrea Mihale and Abdulrahman Makame Shake to vie for NEC membership post through Pemba North Region. The NEC membership post through Unguja South region will be contested by Makame Omar Makame, Othman Ali Maulid and Suleiman Ame Vuai. Mr Bakari Rahibu Msangi, Gerald Eliaika Munisi and Elipokea Wangael Urio have been nominated to vie for the post of CCM publicity secretary and ideology for Arusha region while Fadhail Rajab Maganya, Daud Ezron Daud Mbise and Novai Megro Mollel have been nominated to contest for the chairmanship of the Parents’ Wing in Arusha region. The post of CCM Chairman of the Youth Wing for Arusha region will be contested by Selemani Qassim Msuya, Lovety Philemon and Omary Bahati Lumato. The post of Amani District CCM Chairman in Unguja Urban region will be contested by Juma Khamis Haji, Stumai Mohamed Msimbe and Faida Daud Abdalla while Abdallah Ally Abdi, Pili Ally Omar and Rajab Abrahaman Abdallah will vie for Pangani chairmanship in Tanga region. Amani District and Unguja Urban are CCM administrative areas. NEC also received and deliberated on the report on the verification of CCM assets in Zanzibar and directed NEC secretariat to institute disciplinary measures against individuals involved in theft, embezzlement and squandering of the party properties. Among other measures, NEC directed that the cases be taken to the party’s security, ethics and disciplinary sub- committee. NEC also nominated Geofrey Isack Mwanichisye to vie for the mayoral post for Mikindani Manicipality in Mtwara region while Omary Kumbilamoto was nominated to vie for the same post for Ilala Manicipality in Dar es Salaam region. In the meeting, NEC members unanimously congratulated CCM and government leaders for their good performance, especially in the implementation of the party’s 2015 election manifesto. The members also hailed President Magufuli and Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohammed Shein for proper implementation of CCM election manifesto, saying their efforts have contributed to economic growth of between 7.1 and 7.3 per cent.