MAINLAND champions Simba SC have clarified that South African club, Polokwane City had erred to enter into pre-contract with striker, John Bocco without consulting the club. According to a statement issued yesterday by Simba’s Head of Information and Communication, Haji Manara, Polokwane City flouted FIFA regulation by entering into pre contract with a player without informing the club. Manara had to clear the air, following shocking reports that the player has been signed by South African Premier League side, meaning Bocco has signed for two clubs. Just a day ago, Bocco extended his contract with the Msimbazi Reds giants for the next two seasons. However, Manara said Simba had already held talks with the Absa Premiership (PSL) side Polokwane City and the issue was resolved with mutual understanding between the two sides. Manara insisted that the towering striker, who had scored 16 goals for Simba at the just ended top flight league will continue to serve the club in the coming two seasons as announced on Monday. Reports from South Africa claims that Polokwane City, who finished fifth in Absa Premiership in the 2018/19 season, have secured Bocco’s signature as part of bolstering their squad ahead of the new season. Polokwane City reportedly signed Bocco on a twoyear deal as replacement for departing star striker, Rodney Ramagalela. Bocco, who joined Simba in 2017 from Azam FC, is currently with the national team, Taifa Stars in Cairo, Egypt ahead of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. He is among the players who had a great role in guiding the club into the CAF Champions League quarter-finals, in which, they were dumped out by Congolese TP Mazembe. Meanwhile, Simba have also confirmed that they have extended a two- year deal with first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula. The goalkeeper joined Simba two seasons ago from Azam and his contract had expired. In another development, Zambian prolific goal scorer and Nkana’s talisman Walter Bwalya is set to join Simba any time soon. The twotime ZSL top scorer having scored 24 goals last season is expected next week in Dar es Salaam to pen the deal. Bwalya has been broiled in controversy over his nationality but Lusaka Dynamos TD Sims Simatta said he is aware of the controversy surrounding Bwalya’s nationality.