TANZANIA Golf Union (TGU) has reminded the affiliated clubs to take Juniors Development Programmes agenda seriously. TGU Honorary Secretary Boniface Nyiti said in Dar es Salaam that the union would like to see juniors development programmes established at all member clubs for the betterment and the future of this game. He said that juniors’ development agenda, which include providing opportunity to all underprivileged youth, are designed to propel the sport in the country. Nyiti said that junior golf programmes are also intended to offer everything a junior golfer needs to continue and speed up development. “The programme will help improve the youngsters to step up into tournament and achieve better results. This will help to have a good number of quality players and enable the country to have strong national teams at all levels,” he said. “Junior development programmes should be run in all clubs countrywide. I want to remind clubs to take this very seriously. We understand that some clubs are doing a wonderful job when it comes to junior development programmes, but we need such programmes to spread to all clubs… it is very important for all of us to sing the same song,” he said. He said that TGU has about 10 member clubs naming them as Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC), Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Course, Moshi Gymkhana Club, TPC Moshi, Kilombero Golf Course, Misenyi Golf & Country Club, Mufindi Golf Course, Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) and Morogoro Gymkhana Club. “Junior athletes need to grow with the game and should be exposed to rules governing the sport. Our clubs should initiate efforts to attract youths to join training because they are our future players,” he insisted. Nyiti also encouraged clubs to run weekly fiddle events, saying it is important in the selection of pairs, who will compete at national competitions and later selected in a team that will compete at the Windhoek International Pairs Golf Competition to tee off in Lisbon, Portugal later this year. He added that Tanzania has been invited to take part in the competition that will draw golfers from around the world. “This is big competition and important one, organisers will foot return air tickets for country representative and other expenses. Clubs must give their members chance to win this trip,” he said. He further said that each club will select top team that will compete with other top from other clubs to select national representatives. Nyiti pleaded for the government support toward golf development that includes preparation and participation of national teams at international competitions.