THE government has said it will continue cooperating with all those, who show interest in investing in the country with a view to strengthening the national economy as well as creating more employment opportunities in the country. The assurance was made by Minister for Industry and Trade Joseph Kakunda, when he visited the Kondiki Milk Processing Plant, in Mwika, Moshi District, Kilimanjaro Region, on Wednesday. “The government’s ongoing programme is meant to make Tanzania an industrial economy and you, through your investment here, are among the stakeholders as far as the government’s plans are concerned,” he said, adding that the government would continue “giving you its full support.” Mr Kakunda, who was on a two-day tour of Kilimanjaro Region, directed the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and Moshi Urban Water and Sanitation Authority (MUWSA) to meet with the Kondiki Milk Processing Plant’s management to address challenges facing the factory, which he said, were related to the two institutions. Earlier, Klondike Chief Adviser, Dr Sadikieli Kimaro, said the factory’s milk processing had risen from 50 litres per day in 2005 to 8,000 litres per day. “This factory was launched in September, 2005, with support from Hagendorf Parish of Germany. By then, we were processing only 50 litres of milk per day, using pots and heat from firewood,” he said. Dr Kimaro noted that the factory management had improved the process by constructing a modern milk processing plant capable of processing up to 8,000 litres of milk a day. He said the project was funded largely by the government of New Z ealand and the International Rotarians. “Investment, through the milk processing plant, has helped to improve the lives of Mwika residents. A total of 1.3m/- is part of the income generated after investing in Mwika every year, contributing to the economic well-being of Mwika and its people.” Dr Kimaro continued saying that besides achievements, the company was also facing several challenges, which he said included, delays in the registration of one of its products - yoghurt. “Another challenge is lack of land to cultivate cattle feeds, which will enable cows produce more milk, the main raw material of the milk processing plant,” he said.