He also slammed the team’s defence as Stars are still waiting to win their first match in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. Amunike charges were edged out by neighbours Kenya’s Harambee Stars 3-2 at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo on Thursday evening to dash their hopes of reaching the second round in the AFCON. Strikers Saimon Msuva and Mbwana Samatta netted first half goals for Taifa Stars, who have never won a Cup of Nations match in two appearances spanning 39 years. In the 198 0 finals, Stars lost 3-1 to hosts Nigeria, in the second match they were beaten 2-1 by Egypt and in their last match of their group they drew one all against Ivory Coast. Michael Olunga scored twice for Kenya. The Japan-based forward equalised in the first half and scored the 8 0th-minute winner in a lively east African derby. Johanna Omolo was the other scorer for Kenya, who trailed 2-1 at halftime. Coaches Amunike reacted to 2-0 loss in their opening group C match against Senegal at the same venue last Sunday by making three changes in his starting line up. Striker Thomas Ulimwengu was preferred for John Bocco, while attacker Farid Mussa also started in favour of Himid Mao. V ersatile defender, Erasto Nyoni, who missed the opening match through knee injury, was deployed as holding midfielder, replacing Feisal Salum, who struggled against Senegal. Nyoni brought a bit of stability in Stars back-line but could not finish the match after picking a knock with 12 minutes to go, and was replaced by Frank Domayo. Immediately after Nyoni departure Stars conceded the third goal. Just six minutes in, Kenya goalkeeper Patrick Matasi could only parry a stinging shot from Samatta and Msuva tapped in the rebound. Harambee Stars were unlucky not to score midway through the half when headers by Francis Kahata and Olunga struck the woodwork within seconds of each other. Msuva nearly scored a second goal when his freekick from well outside the box was heading for the corner of the net until Matasi tipped the ball over. An intense match produced two more goals inside a minute close to halftime with Kenya leveling and then falling behind again. Stars goalkeeper Aishi Manula flapped at a free-kick, the ball struck teammate Nyoni and drifted towards Olunga, whose bicycle kick found the net. The Kenyan joy was short lived, however, as Samatta punished clumsy defending to fire the ball into the net and give Stars a 2-1 halftime advantage. Samatta played himself out wide momentarily and the improvisation and the finishing was perfect. There was no let-up in the physicality from both teams as the second half progressed and Manula made a superb reflex save to parry a header from Kenya captain, V ictor Wanyama. But Manula could not prevent Kenya equalising a second time on 62nd minutes when a cross after a short corner was powerfully nodded into the net by Omolo. It got worse for Taifa Stars ten minutes from time when they fell behind for the first time as Olunga fired the ball into the net off a post from the edge of the box. Speaking shortly after the match, Amunike was clearly dismayed by the teams’ poor defending. “We paid the price for not managing our advantage. We committed a lot of mistakes at the back-line. When you throw an advantage you definitely pay for it. To be very honest to you, we started the game with a very good note, scoring first and leading the towards half time.” “There were a lot of crazy things that were going on in the field. Defensively we committed a lot of mistakes. The second goal the Kenyans equalised was a big mistake from our defending. This is what we practiced all over that when they drop the ball in the first post, players should know where to stand and clear their lines. “Every team wants to go far but in reality, we are lacking a lot in character. There is no character in the team,” fuming Amunike said. “Regardless of what happened, as a coach, you stand on the side of players...you feels for them and think that you want to change things around. The bottom line only remains that we qualified for AFCON finals after so many years (39 years). Earlier, Algeria defeated Senegal 1-0 in a foul-riddled first match of a goup C double-header at the 30 June Stadium and both countries are set to make the last 16. Even if Kenya lose their final group match against Senegal, they will hope to squeeze into the knockout phase as one of the four best third-place teams. After two rounds, former champions Algeria top the group with six points, Senegal and Kenya three each and Tanzania are without a point.