NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars skipper, Mbwana Samatta has said Tanzanians should be proud of their team despite shaky start at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals in Egypt. Taifa Stars fell to a 2-0 loss to Senegal in their opening group C game in the tournament at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo last Sunday, with goals from Keita Balde and Krepin Diatta. Emmanuel Amunike charges were due to face East Africa rivals Kenya’s Harambee Stars in their second group match at the same venue late last night in which they have to avoid defeat and early elimination from the competition. The KRC Genk striker said the fact that Taifa Stars managed to make it into the finals of the continental major showpiece after missing out for 39 years, was a big achievement and the players are picking important lessons from the event. “We need to be proud of our team just for making it into the finals…we need to put our shoulders back and walk proud. We should stop licking our wounds and instead, we need to celebrate them because the team is in the learning process,” Samatta told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview. He said the scars the team bears are the signs of a competitor, insisting that from a competition of such a magnitude, players and the technical bench always pick important lesson which will help them to come back strong in the future. “This learning process is not only for players and the technical bench, but it is as well for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), leadership, the government, sponsors, football stakeholders and all fans,” he said. “I’m pleased to see several top TFF and government officials including Members of the Parliament coming up here, to support us and learn from the ground. It is important for the whole country to understand what is entailed in the AFCON finals and I hope our leaders have seen it for themselves,” he said. “I can assure you, when we qualify again; we will be completely the different team. And, we will work hard to be in the finals again because we’ve tasted its sweetness,” he said. On Tuesday, Stars trainer Amunike said his charges will improve with time. The Nigerian legend believes that in every journey there is always a process of adaptation and process of building confidence. “Whether we like it or not, and whether we are realistic to ourselves the reality remains the same, in 39 years a lot of things have happened, a lot of players have played and retired and a lot of good generations are still coming up. We are privileged to be in this AFCON and this is a stepping stone for Tanzania and beginning of the new chapter. He said the new chapter must be approached in honest and realistic manners, insisting that Tanzanians should stop talking too much and instead, they need to be more involving, serious and consolidate what the country has achieved in football so far. “The story is what we can do in the future, what will be the shape of Tanzania football in the future. How are we preparing our players in psychological aspect of the game. We have seen it clearly that teams that are more experienced and involved in more international games have edge above others. Amunike said time has come for Tanzanians to be more engaged in order to build players confidence. Taifa Stars, who are making their second ever appearance in the competition, face Algeria in their last group game in the AFCON in tournament at the 30 June Stadium on Monday. The match will kick off at 22 hours.