A traditional way of burning sugarcane leaves around fibrous stalks before harvesting may change in the future as a recent study shows the leaves are potential raw materials for pulp and paper making. Traditionally, farmers have been burning the fibrous stalks to remove leaves, weeds and other materials that make harvesting difficult and ensure the safety of harvesters. But University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) researcher Saidi Issa told 'Daily News' yesterday at the ongoing 43rd Dar es Salam International Trade Fair that the traditional method was detrimental to not only human health, but also to the environment. "Burning of sugarcane leaves releases hazardous pollutants into the air and this affects people near the farm and contributes to global warming due to carbon dioxide emissions," Mr Issa said. He noted that the use of sugarcane leaves to produce pulp for papermaking would lead to reduced wood consumption and add value to sugarcane as it provided alternative raw materials for paper making. He said five sugar species from Mtibwa sugar were investigated for their potential for pulp production and they were all found to have almost the same pulp yield. Mr Issa explained that there were other benefits associated with using sugarcane leaves for paper making, instating there was a need for finding out an alternative method for harvesting the crop so that the leaves could be used as raw materials for paper making. He said using wood in paper making was more expensive than using sugarcane leaves for wood contained high lignin content compared to leaves and so more chemicals would be used in removing the substance. According to experts, lignin is the stuff that makes trees woody. The researcher further said that using wood as a raw material in papermaking increased operational costs because it was more expensive than using sugarcane leaves. He added the study provided alternative raw materials for papermaking, hence guaranteed production. He detailed that according to Sugar Board of Tanzania data of 2018, four major sugar industries Kiombero, TPC, Kagera and Mtibwa produced 353,960 metric tonnes of sugar per year. “For each tonne of sugar produced there is the potential for producing a tonne of dry leaves. Assuming 50 per cent of the leaves can be made available for pulp production as the rest is left for nutrient retention, about 176,980 tonnes of dry sugarcane leaves can be utilised annually for paper production,” he said. He said the production of sugarcane leaves was expected to increase in the future following plans to establish more sugar factories in the country. Tanzania Prisons Service (TPS) has already embarked on the process to establish sugar factory. It has already grown sugarcane as part of the preparations. The study, however, recommends a need for conducting techno- economic studies to investigate feasibilities of investing in pulp production from sugarcane leaves.