AT least 100 indigent women and children are expected to benefit from free plastic surgeries sponsored by the Women Plastic and Reconstruction surgery project and implemented by the Aga Khan Hospital (AKH), Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), and the Reconstructing Women International. Speaking to journalists at a press conference in Dar es Salaam recently, the Aga Khan Hospital Consultant General Surgeon, Dr Aidan Njau said that the surgery improves selfconfidence amongst the population and especially the patients and enable them to become productive members in families. Dr Njau said that a major screening camp to identify needy patients for Phase Five will be held at their institution in the city on 15th June from morning to evening and simultaneously coordinated by the Aga Khan Health facilities in Dodoma, Morogoro, Mbeya, Iringa, Mwanza, Tabora, Bukoba, Tanga and Bunda. Commenting, the Aga Khan Senior Consultant General and Laparascopic Surgeon, Dr Athar Ali said that the four phases of the programme previously have shown great success and have positive impact on the patients’ quality of life. “Due to overwhelming success and impact to the patients’ quality of life during the first four phases, we would like to announce the launch of Phase Five that is conducted twice a year in June 15th and the first week of August this year,” he said. Dr Ali said that reconstructive surgeries have shown that after performance, the quality of life for patients normally improve and they do not suffer from stigma, adding that the Aga Khan Hospital and Muhimbili National Hospital are happy to once again partner on the project. The programme was initiated in January 2016 and brought together Surgeons from the United States, Canada and Europe to work closely with Tanzanian medical professionals. The teams have been performing surgeries freely to patients, who are mostly victims of domestic violence, burns and accidents. This collaboration also aims at sharing and enhancing surgical expertise amongst the parties to address the medical needs of plastic and reconstructive surgery across Tanzania and East Africa Region. The programme being implemented in the past four phases has benefited at least 143 women and children, all getting free surgeries, admissions, medication and pain management.