TANZANIA is looking set to create a pool of quality volleyball players, who will help form a strong national teams to compete favourably in international tournaments. This was revealed over the weekend by the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) Executive Committee Member, Irene Mwasanga, at an occasion to close level I Coaching Coarse at the Filbert Bayi School in Mkuza, Kibaha Coast Region. Officially closing the course on behalf of the TOC Secretary General, Filbert Bay, Mwasanga said the national Olympic committee is determined to see all sports in the country flourish at athletes perform at the optimum. “This is why we at TOC, regularly organise courses of this nature, to nurture our coaches for the best trickledown effect. TOC has the tradition to help develop sports in all associations country wide both in Mainland and Zanzibar, as part of our efforts to develop sports in the country. We offer these kinds of training to all associations in circles,” she said. Mwasanga said this was the third time for volleyball coaches in the country to undergo such training. Similar courses were held in 2006 and 2013. She said, apart from providing coaching course under the auspices of Olympic Solidarity, TOC also normally offer Sports Administration and Leadership training for sports associations officials in the country. She challenged participants, “You have now been equipped with knowledge and it is your responsibility no to go to the grass roots and form clubs to help develop the sport.” Mwasanga also praised legendary Filbrt Bayi, for always being supportive to all sports associations. She also thanked International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) course instructor, Tonny Westeman from Sweden, for guiding and imparting knowledge to the participants. On his side, Westman thanked TOC and participants, saying he had an enjoyable stay in the country. “I had a really nice week with you. I hope you got new knowledge in volleyball and now it is your responsibility to go out in schools, clubs and streets to training the young players for them to develop their career. If you fulfill this role, Tanzania volleyball will grow,” he said. Tanzania Volleyball Association (TAVA) Secretary General, Alfred Selengia, challenged participants to make full use of the training to enable the growth of the sport in the country. “Go and work on what you have attained in the training… do not just take certificates and keep them somewhere at home,” he told participants.