AS the “Festival of Breaking the Fast,” also called the Eid al-Fitr is being celebrated in the country as globally by Muslims and others, one thing, peace or call it patriotism, in this case should prevail wherever people are. Every Tanzanian regardless of religion, tribe, and political inclination wants one another in several aspects to see into it that they develop the country and fruits of the same development trickle down to them all. Everyone should know that the peace they enjoy presently came as a result of some founding fathers of the nation sacrificing their lives and property, and hence, the best homage the present and future generation can pay them is to maintain it. Going by 2017 Global Peace Index (GPI), released by the Institute for Economic and Peace (IEP), Tanzania is one of the countries among nations with the highest state of peace and tranquility in the world. This is something the nationals should be proud of as they celebrate an event in the country, because without peace obviously there is no celebration. As it further ranks the country the 54th among the most peaceful nations on earth, and the 10th most peaceful in Africa, Tanzanians should take hats off to their leaders who have tried day in day out to unite them to speak one language, and have one opinion that it the country first then you and I. As people go about celebrating, it is also important that parents and guardians accompany their children and never leave them alone while crossing roads, in Parks, market places, beaches and in towns, where they would long to visit. Equally, parents should not give much freedom to their children to join strangers in their festivities, because study shows that wherever people are gathered, there are all sorts of characters some with weird and good behaviors. As Police would be around to maintain law and order and ensure that everyone celebrates peacefully, the citizens should also be aware that the first peace and security should start in their midst, wherever they are gathered. As a parent one must serve one’s child’s emotional and physical needs, besides meeting their basic needs of food, clothing, housing, medical care, and education. This is pointed out because during such festivities, some may be tempted to forget their families and go on to merry without realizing that the same family requires him/her back at the right time for the same emotional comfort. Parents should know that they are their children’s first teachers and should remain their best teachers throughout life. Functioning as a coach, the parent exposes a child to age-appropriate challenges to encourage development as well as to experiences that allow the child to explore on their own and learn from interacting with their environment. This requires a parent to be a role model and desist from uncouth behavours while in any festivity.