ELECTRICITY generation using locally available natural gas has enabled Tanzania to save $12.7bn (about 27.940tri/-) during the past 15 years between 2004 and this year, Energy Minister Medard Kalemani said yesterday. The funds were hitherto used to import heavy furnace oil (HFO) and the payment of capacity charges for generators operated by independent and emergency power producers (IPPs and EPPs), which then sold produced electricity to Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco). However, Dr Kalemani noted that the country had been able to save the staggering amount of money during the period under review after doing away with IPPs and EPPs and embarked on gas-fired power plants. Since then, natural gas from Songo Songo in Lindi and Mnazi Bay in Mtwara generates 831MW for the national grid, representing 60 per cent of Tanzania’s total grid installed capacity of about 1,500MW. Tanzania weighs AfCFTA before ratification Dr Kalemani made the revelation in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the climax of the 50th anniversary of Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC). “It is high time we started using natural gas for domestic use and for vehicles. Natural gas is environmentally-friendly compared to other sources of energy. “The use of natural gas for domestic use is also 40 per cent cheaper compared to charcoal and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). In motor vehicles one can spend just 15,000/- for 160km compared to 70,000/- for the same distance when using petrol and diesel,” he explained. The minister noted further that the transportation of natural gas from gas fields in Mtwara and Lindi had increased from six per cent during the past three years to 15 per cent at present, with projections showing that the rate would increase to 28 per cent of the pipeline’s capacity in the next two years. Speaking on the same occasion, Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office (Investment) Angellah Kairuki commended TPDC for the work well-done during the past 50 years, noting that the state-owned corporation had a crucial role to play to enable the country realise its industrial economy objective. “Investments in industries highly depend on reliable and affordable power. TPDC should thus set affordable tariffs for factories which use gas for production,” she urged, adding that the government recognised the role of TPDC and natural gas in bolstering the economy and that was why it had invested heavily in the natural pipeline and natural gas processing plants.” Ms Kairuki further urged TPDC to speed up supply for domestic use, particularly in the designated capital of Dodoma, to curb environmental destruction caused by tree cutting for charcoal and firewood. Earlier, TPDC Acting Managing Director Kapuulya Musomba said 44 factories had been connected to the natural gas network for their operations, while 200 vehicles had been modified to use it. “Demand for natural gas for domestic use is high, but TPDC is held back by limited financial resources. Our plan is to roll out the pipeline network to at least 10 regions to start with,” he explained. Mr Musomba assured that after years of making losses TPDC was set to make a profit of 9bn/- during the current financial year and eventually pay dividend to the Treasury coffers.