THE government has pledged to help developing the sports infrastructure at Malya Sports College located in Kwimba District, Mwanza. Speaking at the Colleges’ 8th graduation ceremony, the Deputy Minister for Information, Arts and Sports Juliana Shonza said the government has allocated a total of 150m/- budget for renovating infrastructure at the college with major focus on play grounds. She urged the management of the college to make sure they are having advertising and publicity strategies that can promote the college and its courses in and outside Tanzania. Malya College Principal Richard Mganga said their campus have made progress in offering and promoting sports education besides offering short and long courses to various teachers and sports stakeholders. According to him, from 2017 up to date, they have managed to provide sport short course to 553 teachers in the country. He said they expect to increase the range of sports courses by adding baseball and rugby. One of the graduates in sports management, Lucia Shirima said the sports education she got will help her in promoting sports countrywide as a sports teacher. A total of 115 graduates 21 graduated in Diploma in Sports Education, 39 graduated in Sports Teaching and 55 graduated in sports management and administration. Malya College of Sports Developments (MCSD) was established in 1979 as the Government owned educational institution and since then the college started offering certificate courses in sports coaching education to cater for the shortage of coaches and sports practitioners in district councils and educational institutions in Tanzania. Since its establishment the college has gone through some changes in terms of expanding its enrolment capacity. From 1979 to 2004 the college had been offering certificate programmes. By the year 2005 the college expanded its programmes and started offering diploma programme in Handball coaching education where 30 students were enrolled. By 2007, 40 students were enrolled to undertake diploma programme in Sports Coaching Education involving six games which are football, netball, basketball, volleyball, handball and athletics. Currently the college has expanded its programmes to include Sports Management and Administration and Physical Education and Sports. The courses offered at this college are truly world class and a life experience that is unforgettable.