NEGOTIATIONS between the government and the World Bank to sign an agreement for the implementation of a land tenure improvement project are progressing well, Minister for Land Housing and Human Settlements Development William Lukuvi (pictured) told the National Assembly yesterday. According to the minister, the project will be yet another revolution in the land sector, including ending land disputes, using land as a living capital, encouraging investment and widening the country’s tax base, among other things. Mr Lukuvi said initial preparations for the World Bank’s funded project were expected to be completed in the 2019/20 financial year, whereas its implementation was expected to start in the 2020/21. He gave the revelation in Parliament, when tabling 2019/20 budget estimates for his ministry, where he requested the House to approve 62.69bn/- for recurrent and development expenditure. During the 2018/19 financial year Parliament endorsed 65.98bn/-. He said during the 2019/20 fiscal year his ministry was expecting to collect 180bn/- from various taxes, levies and fees resulting from activities in the land sector through various strategies. Some of the plans that will help meet the ministry’s collection target, include using an electronic system via smart phones to identify and register plots in urban areas as well as the provision of residential licences. According to the minister his ministry plans also to simplify the payment of property tax by using point of sales machines (POS) as well as strengthening the ministry’s ICT system. In ensuring that people of different economic status own residential houses, the minister said, the National Housing Corporation (NHC) was implementing several short and long term plans, among them being the Tenant Purchase (TP) Scheme. “In the implementation of the scheme NHC in collaboration with 16 financial institutions signed an agreement with the Corporation to issue mortgage financing to people. With the TP scheme, NHC develops housing units then sells them to buyers through a tenant purchase scheme. The buyers pay deposit, then pay the balance from rents received or saved over a period of years. The tenant purchase procedure is designed to give customers convenient options to purchase houses by paying the agreed down payment and then finalise the balance on long-term installments during the tenure of the scheme, while occupying the unit. According to Mr Lukuvi, as of May 15, 2019, NHC had sold about 152 residential houses to new customers from various projects implemented in the 2018/19 financial year in various parts of the country, which are part of 1,284 residential houses for sale, which include accomplished projects as well as those still ongoing. The targeted customers are ordinary citizens as well as district councils. On business areas and offices, the minister noted that NHC had sold 2,144 square metres in various projects of areas with offices and business centres with a total of 21,495 square metres. Govt, WB now to sign land tenure agreement However, no authority will be able to acquire, register or issue a licence or permit to any person intending to import, export, manufacture or sell plastic carrier bags that have been prohibited by Regulations. Violators of the law will be liable to a fine of not less than 20m/-, but not exceeding 1bn/-. In Africa, there are about 13 countries that have either banned or introduced a levy on plastic bags to control and eventually stop their use.