A WEEK after plastic bags ban gained momentum in the country, the government has maintained that it will keep on running awareness campaigns on the impact of its usage. Tanzania becomes the 34th African country to ban importation, production, sale and use of plastic bags since 1 June 2019. The Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Vice-President’s Office, Ambassador Joseph Sokoine, said the government will keep on raising awareness, especially in the grassroot areas. “Our country is of great size, and some areas might have not received this important information on the side effects of plastic bags on the environment, thus the government will keep on providing education on the issue,” he said. Mr Sokoine said the government through the National Environment Management Council (NEMC), and the Ministry of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government will make sure they cover the whole country, especially in villages. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a meeting on the ban of plastic bags organized by Legal and Human Right Centre (LHRC), he said they will also use several platforms to raise awareness. He further said plastic bags pose a number of serious effects, including death of animals, blocking infrastructure such as sewerage system and spreading diseases. NEMC Acting Director for Environmental Impact Assessment, Dr Menan Jangu said the process of alienating plastic bag use started since 2003 as a strategic plan for rescue and breathe new life into water resources in the nation. Dr Jangu said the program realized that the problem of plastic bags in the country has become viral, and deliberate crusades need to be taken. On raising awareness, he said NEMC toured the whole country providing education before the ban came into effect, and the council will keep on doing so until the side effects of plastic bags sink in people’s mindset and lead to behavioral change. Several environmental stakeholders who attended the meeting suggested that it was high time the government considered launching environmental tribunal in accordance with the law.