THE Tanzanian Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) is a social security scheme established in 2015 under the worker’s compensation Act Cap 263. R.E 2015. The WCF provides wage replacement and medical benefits to employees injured in the course of employment. The WCF is beneficial to both the employer and employee, in that, for the worker it can alleviate the socio-economic impact of accidents/ injuries and occupational diseases, whilst also covering the employer from being sued for negligence in both the private and public sector in mainland Tanzania. The health of workers is critical to any organization and it is viewed as having positive development outcomes for both society and the economy. It is in the interest of all stakeholders to ensure that workers are working in an environment that meets the appropriate working standards. The reality worldwide is that some workplaces are more dangerous than others, and it is with this notion that work accident insurance was established. The history of work accident insurance can be traced back to 1884, with the establishment of the German accident insurance. Critical to the establishment of the work accident scheme in Germany, was the ability to successfully answer the simple question of: who should be responsible for the injuries or illness that occurs at work or as a result of work. In 2015, Tanzania also sought to provide an answer to its work related accidents and the designation of responsibility. The Tanzanian social accident insurance (Workers Compensation Fund) was operationalised in 2015 to answer this question, as it pertains to the work related accidents. There is substantial evidence internationally that links positive social and economic progress to a healthy working environment. A healthy working environment protects both the employee and employer from occupational hazards, and it is within this context that the Workers Compensation Fund is critical to Tanzania’s social and economic development. Other commentators have linked the growth of the formal sector with a greater demand for expansion of worker compensation schemes. The operationalisation of the Workers Compensation Fund in Tanzania is a clear and positive indication of the government’s commitment to improving the health and wellbeing of the workplace, for both employers and employees. The challenge, as argued in this article, is whether the Workers Compensation Fund should be provided with legislative framework that enables it to address issues related to intervention and prevention of occupation hazards, as compared to the role being performed by the Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA). This article looks at the arguments from both spectrums in terms of which institution might be best suited to have the legislative mandate, as it relates intervention and prevention of occupational hazards. To understand the scope of the areas involved, it is important to first discuss what entails occupational hazards. Workers face different occupational hazards, with some workers ‘more vulnerable’ than others. Prevention of occupational hazards includes measures aimed at preventing undesirable events that might limit or destroy the physical or mental soundness and wellbeing of the individual. There are both social and economic arguments for supporting the Workers Compensation Fund. First, from a social perspective, workers should be protected from occupational hazards. Second, from an economic perspective, it is beneficial to the Workers Compensation Fund to reduce the number of occupational hazards as this will lead to increased productivity and reduced claims. The argument for supporting the increased role of the Workers Compensation Fund is that prevention, rehabilitation and compensation should be viewed as part of the same process. In other words, by increasing the role of the Workers Compensation Fund in this area, it allows for improved management, as the Workers Compensation Fund would be able to make a clear link between preventative measures, rehabilitative process and compensation. To do this, there is a need to depart from current practices whereby prevention and rehabilitation/ compensation are undertaken by two different institutions. The argument is that the OSHA is not incentivised to improve the quality of preventative measures, as compared to the Workers Compensation Fund, which has to carry the costs of weak preventative measures in the form of rehabilitation and compensation. The current operating model does not enable the Workers Compensation Fund to influence, let alone, intervene in preventative actions, rather serves the rehabilitative and compensatory function Workers Compensation Fund has the only tool that might use to reduce or influence the number of accidents/ injuries at work places. Contributions/ premiums can be used as an incentive, or punishment to employers who are not complying with workplaces safety rules. Currently, contribution rates are 1 percent for private sector employers while 0.5 percent is for public sector. These rates are based on employee’s basic wage and it is paid by employer, therefore, Workers Compensation Fund might increase premium/contribution to employers with high rate of accident incidences, or might lower contribution to employers who comply with safety rules at work-places as an incentive to reduced injuries at work-places, more control for companies to influence costs through good prevention for themselves, companies would directly be affected by the consequences of their weak prevention of injuries. This measure is good since prevention gaps are easier to be detected, e.g. if a company shows extraordinary numbers of accidents it is obvious that something needs to be done about prevention. The community of workers in Tanzania will enjoy a good working environment with fewer risks of getting accidents, but this will be achieved once Workers Compensation Fund has the power of intervening and controlling workplace safety laws. Silvanus Kuloshe is a social security analyst and designer.