WILD animals have significantly increased in the Serengeti National Park (SENAPA) in recent years, the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) says. They include lions, leopards, buffalos and elephants. “Serengeti now hosts many lions, leopards, elephants and other animals,” TANAPA Senior Conservation Commissioner in the Western Zone, Mr Martin Loiboki, said in Serengeti last week. Mr Loiboki said the increase was clear evidence that efforts by the government to eliminate poaching under President John Magufuli administration were paying off. The government took stern measures to end poaching of elephants and other wild animals since 2015 when President Magufuli was voted into power. Early this month, Serengeti was voted Africa’s best park on the African continent for the year 2019 by World Travel Awards (WTA) . The country’s secondary largest national park defeated other famous parks in several African countries during the WTA award gala held in Mauritius. The voters included travel and tourism professionals as well as holiday makers. Mr Loiboki said the award recognizes Serengeti as the best wildlife conservation place which also offers classic tourism services in Africa. He was speaking during a special ceremony held at Robanda village in Serengeti District to introduce and showcase the award to the residents of Mara, Simiyu and Arusha regions. He said TANAPA would continue to work with all key stakeholders, including local communities, to protect and conserve the Serengeti ecosystem. Mara Regional Commissioner Mr Adam Malima and his Simiyu counterpart, Mr Anthony Mtaka, said they would sustain the campaign to ensure that Serengeti was free from poaching and other destructive acts. The Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamis Kigwangalla, was the guest of honour at the event coloured by different traditional dance groups from local communities living around the Serengeti ecosystem. Dr Kigwangalla said the award was part of the fruits of President Magufuli’s directives on conservation matters. Besides several District Commissioners (DC’s) , the ceremony was also attended by other local leaders including councillors from all districts with villages bordering Serengeti National Park. Representatives from key partners working hard to ensure the Serengeti ecology remains intact attended the ceremony. The partners include Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS), Ikorongo Game Reserves , Grumeti Reserves Limited and Ikona Wildlife Management Area (IKONA).