STABLE tax regime that involves freezing excise duty on various products that include tobacco, has stimulated local production and investment while boosting government revenues. Experts in the industrial sector say freezing excise duty means creating a good environment for doing businesses and setting up investments in the country. Speaking in Dar es Salaam, the Tanzania Cigarette Public Limited Company (TCC Plc) CEO, Alan Jackson, said a stable tax regime will boost production, increase government taxes, while also promoting investor confidence and a conducive business environment for local producers. The government of Tanzania has over the last two years maintained the rate of excise tax on tobacco which will among other things help curb illicit trade and support local manufacturers and farmers. The tobacco industry is the second highest foreign exchange earner among traditional exports, with millions of Tanzanians depending on the crop for their livelihoods. Mr Jackson said the proposed budget was good for the tobacco industry and the wider economy in general. He said the new budget supports a partnership approach between the government and the private sector, at a time when the government is focused on reaching middle income or semi-industrialized status by 2025. He said: “Cooperation between the government and the private sector needs to continue through general policy support and increased engagement and trust. This move has created stability and the international business community should be confident to invest in Tanzania.” However, he said there are more reforms required for local tobacco manufacturers, which will enable an environment for continued investment in innovative new products. These were not included in the budget but through dialogue he is confident the government will listen. Through reforms in taxation, TCC believes they can formalize an informal segment of the tobacco market and over time generate over 2bn/- to government coffers. These proposals have been tabled and are believed to be receiving due consideration. The Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr Innocent Bashungwa, said yesterday that the government will continue to support the tobacco sector through improving the value chain from farmers to consumers. He said the government was also working on the company request to reduce excise duty on planned cutrag product. “We want to ensure that we build sustainable tobacco marketing, including securing new markets to Egypt and China,” he said. He said the ministry recently sent a delegation to Egypt to study the market demands for Tanzanian tobacco, which has shown positive outlook. The 33 .1trl/- budget for 2019/20 was unanimously endorsed in the House on Tuesday.