AS a ban imposed by the government on single-use plastic carrier bags took effect yesterday members of the public have responded positively to the campaign, a survey conducted by ‘Sunday News’ shows. From Dar es Salaam to Kagera and from Mbeya to Kilimanjaro regions, residents responded positively to the ban as most of them were seen improvising alternative carrier bags to carry their goods, while vendors demanded buyers to produce their alternative bags or buy from them. Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) January Makamba toured Kariakoo Market and Mbagala in Dar es Salaam yesterday to witness how the business community had complied with the government directive. In all places toured, Mr Makamba witnessed a positive response as traders, including small-scale businesspeople, were seen displaying alternative carrier bags for sale to buyers. Mr Makamba’s tour was part of the inspection conducted yesterday across the country by various leaders to ensure the ban was complied with and lay more emphasis on the use of alternative bags as the ban became effective. Among the regions toured included Singida, Mwanza, Mbinga and Mbeya. “Today our country has made history by stopping the use of plastic bags, which pollutes our environment. It is an important step we have made as a nation,” he said. He explained that a small plastic bag that was worth 50/- at most with less than 1gm stayed over 100 years and after being used it probably ended up in a sewerage system, ocean, river or stomach of a human being or a domestic animal, causing harm and a huge loss. “Every year that went by, we were importing and producing containers of plastic bags. As per a scientific report, 20 years from now if plastic bags are allowed to continue there will be more plastic bags in our ocean than fish, and we will have lost the beauty and admiration of our country,” he added. He insisted: "This step aims at protecting our environment and creating a better Tanzania to the coming generation. “It is an important and a revolutionary step.” Mr Makamba pointed out “Today is the first of June, and is the day that the law on the ban starts to be applied. The first 50 per cent of the work is done, and the remaining 50 per cent has commenced to ensure the law is effectively enforced.” He further said that the law on the ban of plastic bags use had been effectively enforced from yesterday and would go together with educating and creating more public awareness about environmental protection and conservation. “This initiative has brought compliments to our country as it is now on the world’s map, being one of the 60 countries that have completely banned plastic bags,” he said. All the countries in the world have entered into an agreement of reducing the use of plastic bags, but only 60 countries have reached our step, and 127 countries have taken a few steps towards that goal. “Few countries have reached our step as it is not an easy task, that needs sacrifice,” he commented. “We have witnessed huge awakening across the country during this one month, something that has given us hope that it is possible and without using any force citizens have agreed and responded well,” he noted as he commended members of the public. “The work has just begun,” he noted. “Officials will visit our markets and shops on Saturday and Sunday during the entire month to ensure the law is abided by, as the initial stage is the most important part in building the foundation.” He urged all municipal, ward and regional leaders to ensure the ban was sustained to make it effective. “Any region that will enforce the ban successfully will be awarded. In every municipal council in Dar es Salaam, a street that will do a good job in complying with the ban will be awarded 3m/-.” Proper sustainable systems will be put in place from July and onwards to ensure the ban is continuous. “We will also put a motivating system where any person who reports those who break the law will be rewarded.” He appealed the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) to go back to shops and market to create more public awareness about what was allowed and what was not allowed preferably with vivid examples. “There is still more work to be done. From what I have witnessed people are ready to abide by the law, they just lack information,” he stated. He ensured the community that the government would ensure that alternative bags were up to standard. “As per the principles concerning the ban, alternative bags need to indicate the manufacturer, carrier capacity and the material the bag is made of, among other things.” “Due to low production caused by uncertainty of the ban the availability is somewhat scarce, but in a months’ time more alternative bags will be available and at a reasonable price.” Meanwhile, NEMC Chairperson Board of Directors Esnati Chaggu said the ban brought more opportunities to the nation than expected. “This will be a continuous initiative and we will stand by it to ensure it is effectively enforced.” ‘Sunday News’ reporters from upcountry reported that members of the public responded well to the ban, signalling roaring success for the government and the entire nation.