HEALTH professionals have urged parents to take their newborns for HIV test, six weeks after birth, arguing that the move will enhance statistics on children living with HIV/AIDS for assured care at early stages. The six weeks are the period within which the HIV viruses can be detected, given the fact that an infant continues to share some hormones with the mother for the couple of days—not less than six weeks, said Dr Sekela Mwakyusa who works with Ariel Glaser Pediatric AIDS Healthcare Initiative (AGPAHI). She made the call yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the inauguration of the 2019 Ariel Camp, which was attended by over 500 children who live with HIV/AIDS. “We mostly insist to female parents who had tested HIV positive during their pregnancies… despite our efforts to prevent mother- to-child transmissions, we still encourage early infants’ HIV test for confirmation if the newborn is free from the disease,” she said. Newborns, immediately after birth, are also given Nevirapine type of drop, which serves as immune in case there is mother-tochild transmissions. For full assurance of HIV negative, the infant should go for HIV test at least thrice a year, said Dr Mwakyusa who doubles as AGPAHI Executive Director. AGPAHI, which operates in the Lake Zone, is currently serving over 100 clubs with over 4,000 children living with HIV. In its areas of operations, the organisation has been also supporting health facilities in the fight against Motherto- child transmissions and other HIV/AIDS related problems, said Dr Mwakyusa. In AGPAHI clubs, children have been attending clinics on monthly basis, normally accompanied with continuous educative sessions on how to live with the viruses and prevent new transmissions. The sessions also serve as a tool for permanent HIV/AIDS eradication in the society, as the grown up children have been disseminating the acquired knowledge/ education to other members of the community on how best to prevent the disease transmissions. Officiating the event, AGPAHI Board Member Asha Mtwangi urged the children to continue adhering to proper antiretroviral drug (ARVs) uses to attain their life dreams. She also praised them for accepting their health status and confidently living in the state, stressing: “I really congratulate you all... it is your satisfaction and confidence that will enable you to turn your dreams true. I have heard you singing that you want to become doctors, engineers, pilots and members of parliament....if you are empowered. AGPAHI has already empowered you health-wise... let your dreams become true,” she said.