THE Court of Appeal has refused to throw away the appeal lodged by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) on tax liabilities of 205.8 million US dollars (over 400bn/-) payable by Russian Uranium Mining Company, JSC Atomredmetzoloto (ARMZ). Justices Kipenka Mussa, Stella Mugasha and Shaban Lilla ruled in favour of TRA by desisting to invalidate the entire record of appeal and granted permission to the tax man to rectify the shortcomings by filing omitted copies of submissions as pointed out by lawyers for the Company. The decision follows two preliminary points of law lodged by the company to oppose the hearing of the appeal on grounds that it was incompetent for containing incomplete records, thus offending the provision of Rule 96 (1) of the Court of Appeal Rules. The justices agreed with the complaint by Advocate Fayaz Bhojani, for ARMZ, that the TRA did not meet the requirement of Rule 96 (1) (k) of the Rules by appending copies of the written submissions made by the parties to Tax Revenue Appeals Tribunal. Instead, they noted, TRA relied upon versions of the submissions which were printed and appended to the Tribunal’s record of proceedings and additionally such submissions were incomplete for want of its attachments. However, in their ruling delivered recently, the justices ruled that the Court should have due regard to the need to achieve substantive justice in line with Rule 2 of the Rules as the shortcomings noted should not lead the court to the drastic action of invalidating the whole records of appeal. “In the spirit of the overriding objectives of the Court, we accordingly grant leave to the appellant to lodge the omitted copies of written submission under Rule 96 (6) within 21 days from the date of this ruling,” they declared and adjourned the hearing of the appeal to another date to be fixed by the Registrar. Sometimes towards the end of 2010, ARMZ entered into a scheme arrangement to purchase shares from shareholders of a company known as Mantra Resources Limited, trading in the Australian Stock Exchange. Mantra Resources Limited has shares in Mantra Tanzania Limited. Later on in March 2012, ARMZ sold and transferred 13.19 percent of the shares in Mantra Resources Limited to Uranium One which is a company incorporated in Canada. Following these transactions, TRA raised and issued the ARMZ with an income tax liability claiming 196 million US dollars.