PANAFRICAN Energy Tanzania (PAET) has handed over a complete satellite primary school worth 300m/- in Migeregere, Kikole ward to Kilwa District Council in Lindi region. The school constructed by PAET has six standard classroom blocks, 12 student latrines, three staff latrines and 138 school desks. Kilwa District Council Executive Director, Rennatus Mchau, said they believe that the satellite school will be the base for developing the students’ capacity in the area. “We hope that the new classrooms will help students with their learning activities so that all of them will grow into strong and responsible individuals,” Mr Mchau said during the handover ceremony. Over the years PAET carried out its gas exploration and production at Songo Songo Island while at the same time supporting the local residents in achieving social and economic progress. PAET’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Manager, Andrew Kashangaki, said besides the production and supply of gas, the company CSR policy main pillars are hinged on education and health sectors. “We will continue to contribute to the economic and social success of the people in the districts where we operate, recognizing and reinforcing the inseparable relationship between healthy businesses and healthy societies,” Mr Kashangaki said through a press statement over the weekend. The CSR chief said PAET was equally glad to note that its social contribution to the society is being valued by the community, with positive reception that gives the company the impetus to accelerate its drive to provide the requisite support to Kilwa. “Overall, we believe that the project will raise education standards in Migeregere, increasing the potentiality for the community to seek and find more lucrative employment and generate greater opportunities in both community and personal lives,” he added. PAET not only invests in the delivery of education; it has also been heavily involved in the development of educational infrastructure in the region. The construction of the school in Migeregere Village was seen as a blessing by the residents due to the fact that before the construction of the school, students had to walk a distance of 16km to the nearest school. Students were forced to go to school and pass through a natural forest reserve. As a result, many students have had to quit school for fear of being attacked by wild animals.