THE fifth government’s ambition to ensure Tanzania attains middle income country status by 2025 has been cited as realistic and achievable, in the wake of the strong emphasis top leaders place on foreign investments being a crucial contributor to economic development. In its July online edition, a prominent international magazine, Africa Forbes, cites President John Magufuli as playing an instrumental role to that end. He has, several times, emphasized on the need of inviting foreign investments and eagerness to ensure the country builds an industrial based economy by 2025. According to the magazine, President Magufuli’s leadership has so far enabled the country to make great progress in both social and economic aspects. Tanzania is expected to become one of the few African countries with strong economies in a few years to come. Among the issues that make President Magufuli popular internationally is his strong stand on issues that directly touch his people. The magazine states that the construction of the Standard gauge Railway, expansion of ports and construction of various roads and other infrastructure across the country are among basic pillars that are expected to promote inclusive economic development in the country. The magazine states that the Head of State said during an interview that the country’s strategy is to develop industries by motivating and attracting investors to invest in different areas in the country. He says: “The infrastructure for such investment is already in place and within notime we will improve them further.” The improvements in roads and railways across East Africa opens opportunities for logistics in a country where urbanisation stands at about 30 per cent and many farms operate at a significant distance from Dar es Salaam Port. The magazine has also listed Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) terminal III as one of the major projects that have been implemented under President Magufuli’s leadership. Other mega projects include Kinyerezi power project and implementation of the Stiegler’s Gorge Power Generation Project, which will more than double Tanzania’s electricity production capacity the completion, the project is expected to generate over 2000MW, which will help to supply reliable power to both urban and rural areas in the country. On economic growth,the magazine writes that the economy has continued to grow at the rate of 7 percent from 2015 compared to other years, which is an exemplar growth to the rest of African countries. Commenting on the plans to ensure sectorial economic growth, the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, said the national target for the energy sector is to make sure that we reach 5,000 MW by 2020 and at least 10,000 MW by 2025. Construction on the 2,115 MW Rufiji Hydro Power Plant Project has just begun and this will greatly help us meet our target. “We aim at improving our economy through a semi-industrialised system: the engine for that is energy and electricity. The current available power in the national grid is 1,600 MW. Our demand by 2025 is going to be at least 2,000 MW,” he said. On sectoral specific investment opportunities, Dr Kalemani said the government, through his ministry, was making plans to build a LNG plant which is going to have a huge economic impact, because there will also be industrial parks around it. “We have acquired the area and we are negotiating with key operators. We aim to complete negotiations by the end of this year. This project is a huge investment ($35b) which will create a lot of employment,” he explained. Minister for Tourism and Natural Resources, Dr Hamis Kigwangalla, said: “We are trying to reposition Tanzania in the views of world travellers, revamping the national flagship carrier, ATCL, to target the most important markets. We are putting in place infrastructure for tourism and we are reaching out to new markets. We also have a new slogan: ‘Tanzania, unforgettable.” The then Minister for Industry and Trade, Mr Joseph Kakunda, said three major priorities have been fixed, the first being agro-processing. He explained: “Since 65 percent of Tanzanians engage in agriculture, this will target paying back to the farmers. Second, labour-intensive industries, to create employment: the cashew nut industry, for example. Third, manufacturing industries for items used in homes and for construction.