ILALA District Court yesterday convicted businessman Chandulal Walji of corrupt transaction and sentenced him to three years in jail. Resident Magistrate Samwel Obas found the businessman guilty of giving 200,000/- bribe to Head of Legal Department with the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). However, the magistrate gave the businessman, a resident of Sea View area along Kimara Street, an alternative sentence of 600,000/- fine instead of serving the custodian sentence. Walji paid the fine in the eleventh hour to escape the jail term. The magistrate sentenced the businessman, who owns Motrax Company, upon conviction on the accused’s own plea of guilty. The businessman had initially denied the charge when he first appealed before the court late last month but changed the plea yesterday. In addition to the sentence, the magistrate ordered forfeiture of the 200,000/- that the convict had used to bribe Goodlack Mwangomango to the government. Before the sentence, the convict requested the court to provide him lenient punishment considering his old age of 68 years and sickness, saying it was his first conviction in a criminal case. But, the prosecution, on the other hand, prayed for a severe sentence as per the law. The prosecution, led by Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Officer Veronica Chimwanda had told the court that the accused committed the offence on May 29, 2019 at Central Park Café-Sea View area in Ilala Municipal Council in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam. The businessman gave 200,000/- to Mr Mwangomango as an inducement to get assistance on his contract with the ruling party, which was coming for review on the May 29, 2019 scheduled meeting. PCCB Bureau Chief of Ilala Region Christopher Myava was quoted by the media as announcing the arrest of the businessman in connection with the crime a week earlier. He told reporters that the convict, a tenant in one of CCM commercial areas, was nabbed while issuing the bribe. “As you know, CCM under its National Chairman gave directives of reviewing all party assets. Therefore, the businessman had agreed with CCM lawyer to give him a favour in the tenancy agreement with the party,” he said. The bureau chief explained that among the party assets verified include the plot under which Walji is the tenant, hinting that the shameful event happened as the party was meeting to review recommendations by the committee that reviewed CCM assets. It is reported that the property involved is the Shopping Arcade along Haile Selassie Road, Oysterbay in Dar es Salaam, valued at 4bn/-. More claims suggest that the convict, along with his brother Dhirajlal Walji had entered into agreement to develop the plot over 15 years ago. However, it’s claimed, no development was made as per agreement. The brothers instead had been collecting rent from Shrijees Supermarket, the tenant on the two floors in the incomplete building. CCM had directed a countrywide audit and assessment of all its properties that had not been developed as per agreement to be returned. According to PCCB, the convict was caught trying to compromise with CCM official to allow him to continue using the property. In December 2017, CCM National Chairman Dr John Magufuli ordered the committee he formed to question anybody it deems necessary in tracking and verifying properties of the ruling party. He directed the questioning to unveil the party properties’ owners, values and collections. Dr Magufuli urged CCM members and all citizens to cooperate with the committee. “I want CCM properties to benefit the party; I want you to grill anyone... being a leader, member or business person, anyone,” the national chairman was quoted as directing. CCM Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally was also quoted as saying that the committee started doing its work and asked all individuals using the party properties to cooperate.