ZANZIBAR High Court Judge Mshibe Ali Bakari has called upon bar graduates from Zanzibar University to uphold the integrity of the law profession as they start their careers as lawyers. Judge Bakari, who is also chairperson of the Zanzibar Law Reform Commission, encouraged the lawyers-in-waiting to be compassionate, kind and hard working. He made the remarks during a special ceremony to bid farewell to the law school graduates organised by the faculty of law and shariah, Zanzibar University, in collaboration with a law firm, Stallion Attorneys. “I hope it is just the beginning of your lifelong love of learning, the secret to success is hard work, perseverance, learning, studying, sacrifice and most of all, love of what you are doing or learning to do,” he told the young lawyers. Citing his own experience of tremendous successes in the law field, Judge Bakari challenged the law graduates to inflexibly uphold the ideals of the profession, embracing the culture of learning and never lose a sense of curiosity. “You are now going to practice what you learnt during your time at this university, go and serve your customers diligently whether you will be representing a law firm or working independently,” he advised and encouraged the lawyers represent the underrepresented. Mr Shehzada Walli, the founder and the Senior Legal Counsel at Stallion Attorneys, commended the law graduates and challenged them to overcome whatever obstacles may lie on the way to achieving professional excellence. Many graduates, said Mr Walli, failed to reach their target simply because they succumb to challenges and give up completely. “There are so many challenges that you may also encounter on your way up such as lack of employment... you should not lose hopes rather you need to put in a lot of hard work and demonstrate your potential,” he told the law graduates. He said there was no easy path to success and implored the lawyers to work industriously as he insisted that real success was never without sacrifice. On his part, the dean of the Faculty of Law and Shariah, Dr Mohamed Makame Haji, said the university was keen on producing the best law students, expressing confidence that the new graduates boast competitive advantage as they enter the labour market.