MOSHI based manufacturer of tourist vehicles bodies and 4X4 accessories, RSA Limited, has asked the government to help in protecting its vehicle bodies’ conversions and accessories patent. RSA Managing Director, Mr Manmohan Bhamra told the Minister for Trade and Industry, Joseph Kakunda, who was on an official visit in Kilimanjaro Region recently, the company suffers patent infringement of its products which threatens its future. “The RSA Ltd patent no. TZ/P/00080, was issued by BRELA since November, 2004 and which we maintain to date…(but) there are those who are infringing our products. “They are copying our work, we appeal to relevant authorities to intervene and save our good innovation which is in danger of been ruined by some unscrupulous people,” he said. Those who infringed RSA products were ruining the company’s good innovation by making sub-standard products which affect the RSA market. “These infringers make us think twice on expanding our scope of services and if severe measures are not taken against them by the relevant authorities, it would be dangerous for our work and the economy in general, because that would affect our company future, its contributions to the government through different taxes and also job opportunities,” said Mr Bhamra. According to him, RSA Tanzania pioneered the manufacturing of steel components for tourists’ vehicle bodies in Africa as well as assembly plants with the state-of-the-art equipment for various models of safari vehicles. “RSA is a leading tourists vehicles and body manufacturers in Tanzania, whereby we have exported products in several countries, which include South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Angola, Zambia, Uganda, Rwanda, Kenya and Malawi,” he said, adding, outside the continent of Africa the company had exported its products to UAE and Kazakhstan. He said following its past great achievements, the company recently introduced a second plant in Arusha City and that it has also opened assembly plants in Kenya and UAE so as to serve the market of its products which are in great demand in those countries. The minister said his ministry would work with relevant authorities so as to make sure there is a level playing field to all investors, including those with legal patents of products. “The government can’t tolerate those who want to make good and legal investors to give up and later on leave the country to invest elsewhere because of infringement of their legal and patented products,” he said. “We will work with the relevant authorities to look on this issue with the intention of protecting those who are willing to contribute to the economy of the nation,” he said.