MOSHI based Kilimanjaro Search and Rescue Company (Kilimanjaro SAR) has been hailed for investing in rescue services using helicopters, especially for tourists. The compliments were made by the Deputy Minister for Natural resources and Tourism, Mr Constantine Kanyasu, when the company’s booth at the just ended Karibu-Kilifair Tourism Exhibition fair that was held in Arusha City, recently. “The idea of establishing this company was good because it will help to increase the number of tourists visiting our country especially those who want to climb Mount Kilimanjaro or Mount Meru,” he said. “Kilimanjaro SAR gives confidence to those who were in doubt, because they are now sure of their safety while climbing the Africa’s highest peak or if they are subject to any challenges when visiting our country’s national parks,” he said. Mr Kanyasu said by investing in the rescue services, Kilimanjaro SAR raised the awareness to other potential investors that there were extra investing opportunities in the tourism sector apart from the customized wild safaris, beaches tourism and mountain climbing. We have been accustomed to registering tourists companies which want to provide safari services to tourists visiting the national parks, those who want to spend their holidays enjoying on the beaches and those who want to provide mountain climbing. By investing in rescue services, Kilimanjaro SAR has shown other investment opportunities in this important sector in the country. Speaking as a special guest at the recently concluded Karibu KiliFair travel show, the Minister said, government recognize the role of the private sector towards the development of the tourism sector. Minister Kanyasu commended the organisers for merging the two travel fairs Karibu Fair and Kili Fair into one. Mr Kanyasu said tourism is one of the most important sectors in the world and its enormous importance lies in the fact that it creates employment opportunities and earns the country foreign currency as it attracts foreigners to the country’s tourism attractions. The Deputy minister added that the government will be working hand in hand with the private sector to improve tourism and that it has started the task by improving infrastructure and ensuring that air, marine and road transport is in fine shape. Tourism is one of the largest foreign exchange earners of Tanzania, best known for its beaches, wildlife safaris and Mount Kilimanjaro. Last year it brought $2.43 billion, up from $2.19 billion in 2017, the Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa said in Parliament in April. Tourist arrivals reached 1.49 million last year, compared with 1.33 million a year ago. The government targets 2 million visitors a year by 2020. Karibu/KiliFair is the leading international Outdoor Tourism & Industry Fair in Tanzania, promoting and presenting companies based in the Kilimanjaro-Region, Tanzania and East Africa as a destination.