What is so special about film, radio and Television Personalities? Ironically, we often tend to “ own them!” In reality, just few of us are close enough to interact with them. It is really amazing to see that in most cases, these uniq ue “ household figure” ends up being our “ imaginary” friends, sisters, brothers, mothers, fathers etc. All this is due to the nature of their job; that of being public faces, “ engaging with unseen audience and presenting to them live and recorded shows ac ross various genres.” Actually, their style of presenting, appearances, personality, articulation etc, are among weapons of their profession. “ In 2007 I joined EATV (East African Television) and in the same year, I won the ‘Best Talented and Hardworking Employee Award.” That’s how DANIEL KIJO began narrating his journey towards his today’s senior management position of Bureau Chief, at the ‘ Feature Story News,’ an agency that produces Television, radio and digital pack ages from studies and breaking news sites across the word. Additionally, Dani as he is popularly k nown, is an actor but also Head of Production/Executive producer at the ‘ Creative Infinities T L td.’ where he oversees the entire production department, including Studio and Operations. “ My responsibilities are to c oordinate the efforts of the reporting staff, to investigate and cover stories, often for dissemination to other media outlets.” Dani Kijo, might be known through his EATV ’s program, that became famous ‘ Minibuzz T V shows’ across our country some years ago. Actually, the set contained a special built ‘ Daladala’ styled minibus, with invited passengers discussing freely about all issues affecting them. These specific shows were produced and aired between 2012 a n d 2014. The program enabled Dani Kijo to win the earlier mentioned award. Daniel was born on the 28th of March, 1983, in Dar-es- Salaam to ‘ Mama’ Bertha and ‘ Baba’ Festo Kijo. Daniel’s journey through education began in Dar-salaam at the IST (International School of Tanganyika) primary school, then joined St. Anthony secondary school. “ I always used to tell people that I wanted to impact people’s lives when I grow up.” before finalizing his A-level at the Shaban Robert High School. Soon after graduating from High School, Dani joined the UDSM (University of Dar-es- Salaam), to study Law, majoring in Commercial Law, graduating in 2007 with bachelor of Laws ( LLB) degree. “ My dissertation focused on how the law affects the growth of c apital markets & securities in T anzania.” Immediately, Dani did an Internship with the Attorney Generals Chambers, gaining acute familiarity with the practical application of the Tanzanian legal system. This was before he joined his desired field of Media, tak ing his first, part-time employment at the East African Television as Senior Presenter of 5 Connect. A live talk show that hosted professionals working in East Africa, “ who have extensive experiences and back- ground to discuss most pressing and c urrent social, economic and political issues in East Africa. ” Between 2008 and 2010 the versatile Dani was already roaming across the Vodacom Tanzania’s corridors, working as Brand Executive, with focus in brand management. Then between 2012 and 2014 it was time for the creation of the mentioned “ Made in Africa TV,” a famous Minibuzz – TV with an average of about 3 million viewers daily! Now, during the past more than half a decade, Dani is the head of Production and lead content producer at the mentioned Creative Infinities (T) Ltd. In the film industry, Dani has been participating as an Actor, line producer as well as presenter and director. Among his work as an actor includes: “ Home coming” a film by Sek o Shamte produced by Alk emist Media – 2015. As a line producer, Dani has a long list of films he participated, (“ Gabriel and the Mountain” for TV Zero Cinema Brazil 2016), Jane Goddall’s National Geographic Documentary with Mark et road films NYC 2015 and Coca-Cola global “ Billion reason to believe campaign” – 2015, being among many others. For almost a decade now, Dani has been producing; countless Tv report pieces and short documentaries (like;T imka na BodaBoda Tv campaign for Vodac om, Cheka na Ushinde TV camp aign, safari ya Gold premier Tv series etc.) for several companies, institutions, TV stations etc. This “ martial artist (Dani, also a founding member of MMA Dar club) has worked as presenter for TV stations, Institutions, and companies too; MiniBuzz T anzania, Boys Boys Tv show for T V-1/fox Africa, Serengeti Fiesta 2 014 among many. As a director, he has directed; T anzania most muscular man 2 015 live show, Education for girls - a documentary for water Aid Tanzania – 2012 etc. When asked about his dream, Dani Kijo didn’t hesitate to narrate his views clearly; “ I am a p assionate, innovative and patriotic person, therefore my dream is to work for CNN and produce my own programs with African content that is geared at creating social imp act for my people.” No doubts, DANI KIJO is definitely slowly but surely, providing a fresh alternative to the traditional module of how media content is being produced. I am glad to have worked with him and prove all these q ualities, while producing a special music competition shows across four major cities of our country (Dar, Dodoma, Arusha and Mwanza). “ Music for Life for CCT Tanzania in 2012.” Jok ate Mwegelo (now DC) and Dani Kijo presented the shows. Believe me the gentleman is absolutely worthy to be illustrated! David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@ gmail.com