STAKEHOLDERS from various economic sectors have praised the establishment of Sector Skills Councils, saying the move was a catalysts for strengthening public-private partnerships. Speaking in separately over the weekend, they said the councils were crucial in boosting confidence and increase the contribution of the new generation of graduates in their respective specialties. The Principal of Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Prof Preksedis Ndomba, said the establishment of the councils was the only avenue through which DIT could benefit in terms of knowledge enrichment. “The fifth phase government under the leadership of President John Magufuli has shown the way by working hand in hand with the private sector, this will accelerate the pace towards attainment of the industrial economic status by 2025,” he said. Sector Skills Councils have been established to prepare college finalists to become skillful competitors in the labour market. A local investor in the alternative energy sector, Mr Hilary Biduga, said he needs competent staff to attain his targets, adding that the councils were crucial in facilitating the availability of competent labour. “I believe the move to establish these councils has a good intention; through them, the youth will be competent in the labour market,” he remarked. The councils would focus on six key areas - agriculture, tourism,industries, construction, energy and ICT. The Executive Director of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Mr Godfrey Simbeye , said as the main coordinators of the councils Would make sure that the target was achieved. “These councils are crucial in helping the youth realize their potentials and be able to embrace available opportunities and eventually be able to support the government’s objective of building an industrial economy,” Mr Simbeye said. “The government’s commitment to work in collaboration with the private sector in solving various challenges is key in ensuring that the business environment is improved,” he said, noting that his institution would ensure that the council’s objectives were accomplished. Mr Simbeye pointed out that more information would be released in the importance of the councils and how TPSF has positioned itself in empowering youngsters who are graduating at various levels of education.