TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) has lauded the national Under-16 girls’ team after qualifying to play in the FIBA U-16 African Championship. Phares Magesa, the federation’s president, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the team has qualified for the continental level tournament after finishing second in the recently ended Under-16 Boys and Girls’ FIBA AfroBasket Zone V Championship. Financial constraints had forced TBF to send only girls’ team at the event held in Kigali, Rwanda. TBF failed to raise fund for boys’ team. Magesa said that Tanzania will now compete at the African level event to be held also in Kigali from July 26 to August 4 this year. “The African competition will serve as qualifier for FIBA U-17 World Championship for Women 2020,” he said. Magesa added that the team achievement is a big honour for the basketball fraternity and country at large. “Federation commended the entire management of youth development programme for the hard work that helped the team to compete in Rwanda and bring home honour,” he stated. He, however, stressed that the team still needs support from stakeholders to facilitate its training and participation of the continental level event which he said will be tougher than the zonal one. Meanwhile, Magesa said that preparation is going well for the senior men and women’s teams that will represent Tanzania at Senior 2019 FIBA AfroBasket Zone V Basketball Championship. The competition that set to bring together top region national teams, is scheduled to start from June 26 to July 1st at Uganda Capital City Kampala. TBF president said that both teams have been in intensive training in Dar es Salaam for the past three weeks ahead of the tough battle. “This will be first time our national teams compete at the international competition since last did it in 2013 when Tanzania hosted the event,” he said. Magesa said TBF has asked for assistance from the government, business firms, individuals and sports well-wishers to help the federation raise about 57m/- for the national teams.