TANZANIA is determined to work more closely with China towards implementing the Beijing Action Plan 2019 especially on areas of agricultural modernisation and industrialisation. This was said yesterday by Minister of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Prof Palamagamba Kabudi when issuing the intervention remarks during the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) coordinators meeting held in here. He also assured that the country remains committed to cooperating with China through the FOCAC mechanism to implementing priority projects in the sectors of hydro-power generation and transmission lines. “This is one of the key development agenda in Tanzania and Africa and we thank China for its sincere resolve to partner with us in achieving that,” he said. According to him, at the start of implementation of the Beijing Action Plan, Tanzania would also remain committed to the execution of other projects, such as upgrading prevailing ports, and upgrading the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI). Other projects include developing industrial parks and special economic zones as well as construction of transport infrastructures that include the standard gauge railway line and super highways. “It is our sincere belief that working with China in various areas of cooperation under the FOCAC mechanism will enable us reach our goal sooner than later,” he told the participants, adding that the country was looking forward to more practical and positive engagements under the FOCAC mechanism. Elaborating further, the Minister said: “Tanzania wishes to be friendly with all and will never allow friends to choose our enemies for us; it is in pursuance of this doctrine that Tanzania is so happy in its new friendship with China and China has extended her own hand to meet ours.” Earlier on, President of Peoples Republic of China Xi Jinping sent congratulatory remarks to the delegates. The remarks were delivered by Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs, Wang Yi. In the remarks, President Xi said he was glad to see two sides work together to push forward the implementation of the follow-up action plan. He said the world was currently undergoing a major change and the momentum of the rapid rise of developing countries was strong. President Xi also expressed hope that China and Africa would take this meeting as a new opportunity, strengthen communication, deepen cooperation, promote the implementation of the summit’s results and make more efforts to build a China- Africa community with a shared future. Attending the forum as the guest of honour, President of Uganda Yoweri Museveni called for necessity for Africa and China to establish, an equitable trade and development model that should emancipate humanity from the primitive tendencies of win-lose situations. “We should all work for win-win frameworks. China, by supporting infrastructure, which is the base of the production of tradable goods and services is already moving in the right direction,” he said.