TANZANIA envisages becoming the first East Africa and sixth African nation to perform bone marrow transplant, giving new hopes to patients in need of the specialised service. African countries, which currently perform bone marrow transplant, are South Africa, Tunisia, Egypt, Comoro and Nigeria. Bone marrow transplant, also known as stem cell transplant, refers to replacement of damaged or destroyed bone marrow with healthy bone marrow stem cells. According to experts at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), the transplant is performed to patients whose stem cells have been damaged or destroyed due to diseases or conditions like sickle cell, leukemia and some types of cancers. MNH Director for Medical Services Dr Hedwiga Swai said in Dar es Salam yesterday that all important preparations, including the purchase of equipment and installation of appropriate infrastructure and training of local specialists, have been made. Dr Swai said the national hospital will dispatch 11 doctors from different specialties to Apollo Hospital in Chennai, India for clinical practices on bone marrow transplant. She said the local specialists will be in India for one month and they will return into the country by the end of July this year for the final preparations before commencement of the service by the year end. The team includes two hematologists, a microbiologist, three lab scientists, three engineers— biomedical, civil and mechanical—an accountant and procurement officer. She noted that other nine specialists have already undergone the three- month training in Apollo Hospital in New Delhi. They include three nursing officers, three pediatric cancer specialists, a pharmacist and two hematologists. Dr Swai noted that in supporting the national hospital’s efforts, the government has disbursed 6.2bn/-, with 3.7bn/- already spent in the purchase and installation of equipment. Detailing the procedure, Dr Swai said that it can be performed using healthy blood stem cells from a donor to replace damaged bone marrow allogeneic stem cell transplant or using patient’s own body stem cells to replace the diseased or damaged bone marrow—autologous stem cell transplant. “This procedure is done by replacing all diseased or damaged stem cells with healthy bone marrow stem cells…the service is the only cure of some type of cancers like leukemia and sickle cell,” Dr Swai said. She noted that statistics from MNH indicated that between 130 and 140 patients are in need of bone marrow transplant and two thirds of them die due to lack of the service. “The availability of this service will help many patients to access the service within the country, reducing the financial burden of seeking the service abroad and building capacity to local experts,” she said. According to Dr Swai, it is estimated that the patient seeking allogeneic stem cell transplant abroad can spend 200m/- for the service while autologous stem cell transplant costs not less than 150m/-. The cost for the procedure within the country is expected to drop by 50 percent per patient. Head of Hematology Department at MNH Dr Stella Rwezaura said the development was crucial because most of cancers cannot be cured completely. She said that there were patients with various blood related diseases like leukemia, sickle cell or those with bone marrow failure. “By commencing this service (bone marrow transplant) we will be in good position to help leukemia patients to have the possibilities of being cured completely,” she said. Dr Rwezaura added that in countries which lack the service, leukemia patients were being provided only with medication to kill stem cells with cancer but the problem will persist because bone marrow continues to produce the stem cells with cancer. “What is being done on bone marrow transplant, which will help the patient to be cured completely is to provide chemotherapy treatment to kill all the stem cells with cancer or other disease and later undergo bone marrow transplant from a relative with matching genes to help the patient generate blood cells from the transplanted bone marrow,” she said. Until June this year, MNH has performed 43 kidney transplants, 339 patients have benefited from interventional radiology while 23 children have undergone cochlea implant.