ALL is set for the June Monthly Mug golf competition to tee off at the Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Course of Mangapwani, Zanzibar today. The 18 holes tournament which will be the sixth for this year monthly mug events, will take place at the par 72 course. Club’s General Manager, Elias Soka told the ‘Sunday News’ from Zanzibar yesterday that all necessary preparations are complete for the tournament to take place. “We are happy to announce that the June Monthly Mug will be held this Sunday as scheduled, everything is going well so far,” he said. Soka added that the draw for this month battle is also ready and they are looking for golfers to come and enjoy the competition. “We also want to take this opportunity to thank all golfers who have registered for the tournament, we hope to have a wonderful and a successful event,” he noted. Soka said that this month event would not be possible without support from sponsors who have been bankrolling the tournaments. He said that this month tournament is generously sponsored by Sea Cliff Resort & Spa of Zanzibar, Auric Air Service Ltd, Zanbluu Beach Hotel, Bweleo Bay and Blues Cafe. According to the draw, Nick Veitch, Dirk Smelty, Rose Owen and Keith will be first to tee off at the event that will be played over four balls better ball stable ford format. “It will be team event, two players per team, take the best score/points on each hole and enter in result in stable ford format team event,” he said. Soka added that they still have few slots left for golfers wishing to participate to register. He said that the event is open for both men and lady golfers with valid handicaps. He also said hefty prizes will be up for grab for winners of the tournament. Soka said apart from team prizes, there will also be individual prizes to be won including nearest to the pin hole 18 and piga mingi. Soka said it is always nice for golfers to compete at the course that earned Tanzania the global focus, after winning last year’s World Best Par 3 Golf Course Awards during World Golf Awards ceremony.