THE Central Corridor Transport Facilitation Agency (CCTFA) has asked the Dar es Salaam Port authorities to discuss with other institutions at the port in order to set mechanism that will speed up cargo clearance. The CCTFA’s Executive Secretary, Capt Dieudonne Dukundane made the remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday when the CCTFA shared its annual transport observatory report of 2018 with Tanzania stakeholders. “According to the report, the cargo spends three weeks on the ocean, two weeks at the port and three days to reach to the destination,” he said while advising the port authority to meet the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and clearing and forwarding agents in order to find out ways of ending up cargo delays at the port. He further advised the government to do improvement of dry ports and establish the new others at separate area especially at the regions with the national boundaries. “Also my advice to the government is to improve other means of transport infrastructures especially railways because the use of transportation of cargos by trucks is costly and wastes time due to poor roads, ” he advised. Speaking during the same event the Permanent secretary, Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Transport Sector Dr Leonard Chamuriho said the government continues to improve transport corridor through CCTFA to enable customers to access good service at the port. “The report contains key findings and recommendations that are essential to understanding the growth and performance of the corridor. It is the ministry’s and government’s hope that today’s deliberations will result in concrete plans, agreed upon by all stakeholders, that will lead to policy change for the prosperity of the corridor,” he said. On his part, the Country Director of Trade Mark East Africa, Mr John Ulanga said Tanzania has a huge platform of opportunity of transport corridor in Africa if the sector will be well improved. He said Tanzania is surrounded with eight neighbour countries where six of them are depending to the Dar es Salaam Port. “Through the report it will support the improvements of the port transport corridor and attracts more customers to use the port of Dar es Salaam,” he said. About the cost of transporting cargo through the Dar es Salaam Port, he said according to the report shows that it cost about 450 US dollars where the Mombasa Port costs US dollar 200. He advised the authorities to see how to reduce some costs to attract more customers.