AZAM FC clinched their ticket to represent Tanzania in the CAF Confederation Cup after a hard-earned 1-0 victory over Lipuli FC in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) final held at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi region. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who was the chief guest, presented the trophy Azam FC skipper Aggrey Morris in a colourful prize-giving ceremony. Azam’s Zambian import Obrey Chirwa scored the winner in the 64th minute to give his side their first ASFC title and the ticket to play in the CAF Confederation Cup. Chirwa scored the important goal from a long ball from his goalkeeper Razak Abalora, won the battle of the ball with Lipuli’s defender Haruna Shamte and took a few steps into the box before releasing a shot which sailed into the corner of the goal. This will be the second time for Azam to feature in the Confederation Cup after they were awarded the opportunity for the first time in the 2016/2017 season as the winners Young Africans opted to compete in CAF Champions League. The final which was staged for the first time at the Ilula Stadium and officiated by referee Hance Mabena, saw Lipuli commanding the first half, but they failed to utilise the chances they created. Paul Nonga and Miraji Athuman wasted most of the chances Lipuli created. The best chance for Lipuli came to Miraji Athuman who was set through by William Lucian’s cross from right flank and Athuman connected it with a free header, but to his astonishment, it was superbly saved by goalkeeper Abalora. In the 42nd minute Nicolas Wadada nearly put the ball on his own net while in effort to clear a cross inside the box, but he was lucky his colleague erased his mistake and cleared the ball to the safety. In the second half Azam came back stronger, but failed to turn some scoring chances into goals, the best was in the 50th when Chirwa who was set by Mudathir Yahya inside the box, fired directly into goalkeeper Mohammed Yusuph’s hands. A few minutes after the attempt, Azam suffered a big blow after their midfielder Yahya went out of the pitch limping after sustaining injury in the 62nd minute, he was replaced by Frank Domayo. Lipuli who had dominated the first half was no match to their opponents in the second half despite having created few scoring chances in the 58th and 63rd minutes, with the first good attempt coming from William Lucian whose cross inside the box was cleared by Aggrey Morris. A corner kick which was cleared by goalkeeper Abalora ended in giving Azam the winner. The Ghanaian quickly fired a long ball which met Chirwa and he coolly netted to give his side the match winner. Donald Ngoma could have doubled the lead in the 72nd minute, but he was well marked and Ngoma failed to round the defender inside the box and tap the ball inside the net. In the 76th minute Ngoma came again into the picture after creating a chance for Chirwa, but the chance was wasted. Azam are the fourth winner of the title, taking it from Mtibwa Sugar who were the previous tournament winner. Azam have written a history as they have managed to win three titles in this season, including the CECAFA Kagame Cup and Mapinduzi Cup before adding the third tittle yesterday.