EAST African Community (EAC) partner states are calling for harmonisation of domestic laws to tackle cross-border organised crimes. Senior police officers from Tanzania and Kenya, who met here over the weekend, agreed that it was imperative to have the laws harmonised in curbing crimes that spill out of borders. Tanzania’s Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro said that the region was still grappling with a number of crimes like terrorism, kidnappings, cybercrimes, drug and human trafficking, noting that it was still difficult to control them because each country had its own fighting ways. According to IGP Sirro, some of the prohibited products in some of the EAC member states could be legal in other countries. “For instance, Khat is considered an illegal substance in some countries like Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi but that cannot be the case with Kenya,” explained the Tanzanian police chief. He said such discrepancies tend to confuse EAC residents when traversing the region through the Commander Sirro emphasised that the presence of a regional state-of-the-art forensic bureau attested the bloc’s determination in dealing with cross-border organised crimes. “We need to create synergies in dealing with such crimes that tarnish the EAC’s image,” he emphasized. Principal Deputy to the Deputy Inspector General of Kenya Police Service Japheth Koome hailed the meeting, terming it a regional strategic undertaking to weed out the vices, which have for years, been claiming lives of East Africans. He reaffirmed that his country was considering revisiting the issue of Khat in as far as domestic laws were concerned. “The bloc needs a solid and practical peace and security strategy to counter the various emerging security challenges,” he said. According to Global Initiative, East African countries are increasingly plugged into the broader global economy, which means that regional illicit activities benefit from the expanding connectivity because informal and formal economies tend to grow in parallel. The instability at the EAC borders breeds negative spill effects on the East African people and economic integration as they face a new set of menaces, including money laundering, human trafficking, illicit drugs as well as firearms trafficking.