MAINLAND giants Young Africans are determined to turn things around after two shaky seasons at both local and international stages. Chairman of the Special Committee formed to steer fundraising needed to drive the club’s development, David Ruhago, said yesterday that so far the going is good as members and fans are responding positively towards contributing to their beloved team. The short term objective, Ruhago said is to make sure that Yanga is financially stable to enable the team compete favourably in the Mainland Premier League and CAF Champions League next season. For the past two seasons, Yanga have failed to win the top flight title, after previously winning it three seasons on the trot. Financial setback has to the large extent been described as a major factor that distabilised the club from staging successful campaign in the top flight and continental football. Ruhago said during his visit to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the club will stage a mega fundraising event dubbed ‘Kubwa Kuliko’ at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam tomorrow, in which Yanga members and fans will make further contributions to their team. He did not reveal how much the drive targeted to collect but insisted that so far, Yanga fans and members countrywide have responded positively and have already contributed significant amount of money that will be announced tomorrow. Ruhago said the fundraising drive does not mean that Yanga was financially crippled, insisting that the drive aims to tap into the available resources to further benefit the club and complement what the club already has. He said former President Jakaya Kikwete, a renowned Yanga fan will be in presence but the chief guest will be announced by the club leadership. “It will simply be ‘Yanga Day’…we will have a number of activities, which include entertainment from top artists. We will have a good number of artistes such as Madee and Ali Kiba as well Bongo Movie stars,” he said. Ruhago said the term of reference for the committee was to sensitize Yanga members and fans to contribute funds to support running of their club activities. They were also tasked to create the club’s database. “We’ve been tasked to identify the number of members and fans of the club countrywide as a long term strategy to ensure that the club effectively uses its strong fans base to generate revenue. “The database will help the club raise significant amount of funds from annual subscription of membership fee and sale of club’s replica t-shirts and other endorsements,” he said. He said Yanga is a big brand but still, little has been tapped from the club’s rich history and huge fan base. “We need to form a strong and big brand, which reflects the history and stature of this club,” he said. When ascending to power after winning the election early last month, Chairman of the club, Mshindo Msolla said he will bring back the club’s ownership to members by strengthening the existing club’s branches as well as establish new ones. Msola added that he will also maintain the existing efforts by fans and members to contribute funds to help run the club affairs. He said the move will help the club to be self-reliant.