Esperance Tunis club have lodged an appeal against CAF’s Wednesday decision to replay re-stage the second leg of the African Champions League final. The match was last week abandoned after Wydad Casablanca left the pitch following a disputed decision. Following the Waydad decision, the match had thereafter been awarded to Esperance, who were consequently crowned African champions. However, the club has since refused to honour CFA’s call to return the trophy and medals. “The club’s management will hold an urgent meeting to appeal against Caf’s decision with the relevant international bodies and will take all legal measures to preserve its rights,” AfricanNews website quoted Esperance’s official.Esperance protest CAF’s match replay decision Esperance Tunis club have lodged an appeal against CAF’s Wednesday decision to replay re-stage the second leg of the African Champions League final. The match was last week abandoned after Wydad Casablanca left the pitch following a disputed decision. Following the Waydad decision, the match had thereafter been awarded to Esperance, who were consequently crowned African champions. However, the club has since refused to honour CFA’s call to return the trophy and medals. “The club’s management will hold an urgent meeting to appeal against Caf’s decision with the relevant international bodies and will take all legal measures to preserve its rights,” AfricanNews website quoted Esperance’s official. Esperance protest CAF’s match replay decision Esperance Tunis club have lodged an appeal against CAF’s Wednesday decision to replay re-stage the second leg of the African Champions League final. The match was last week abandoned after Wydad Casablanca left the pitch following a disputed decision. Following the Waydad decision, the match had thereafter been awarded to Esperance, who were consequently crowned African champions. However, the club has since refused to honour CFA’s call to return the trophy and medals. “The club’s management will hold an urgent meeting to appeal against Caf’s decision with the relevant international bodies and will take all legal measures to preserve its rights,” AfricanNews website quoted Esperance’s official.