FEASIBILITY study for construction of Chinese sponsored Transport University in Tanzania is ready and the report is only awaiting approval of the two governments for the multibillion shilling project to start. In February last year, the Chinese government declared the 62 million US dollar (over 138bn/-) grant for construction of the university as part of efforts to support the government’s industrialisation drive. National Institute of Transport (NIT) Principal Prof Zacharia Mganilwa told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday, “In totality, all feasibility study activities were accomplished in March, this year. We are waiting for approval of the governments for construction activities to start in the institution’s premises.” He clarified that Tanzania will be among five African countries, which China had decided to invest in mega transport universities to among others, pursue dynamic relationship with the continent. Prof Mganilwa further clarified that China’s decision was revealed during the Johannesburg Summit and sixth Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) that took place between December 3 and 5, 2015 in South Africa. Chinese Ambassador in Tanzania Wang Ke, in February last year, delivering a special message to President John Magufuli from Chinese President X i Jinping, emphasised on the university construction. She told President Magufuli that the donation was also part of China’s support for development projects in Tanzania, the focus being to strengthen bi-lateral relations between the two countries. Presently, Tanzania has the NIT, a public higher learning institution that was established in 1975 as the training wing of the then National Transport Corporation (NTC). NIT is charged with strengthening human resource capabilities of transport operatives and middle level managers. The institute is the only training institute in the Sub-Sahara excluding South Africa, mandated by the government to offer training in transport.