FOREIGN Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi has challenged Tanzanians living abroad to come and invest in the country as part of efforts to develop the nation. He has also reminded Tanzanian students abroad to return home upon completion of their studies for their skills to be exploited in pushing forward the country's development agenda. Prof Kabudi made the statements here on Sunday while addressing Tanzanians living in China on his first leg to China since he was appointed into the office in March this year. "The country is proud of having all of you here and whatever you are doing is for your personal and individual benefit as well as for the nation at large. You have to remember your country by either coming back physically or launching investments there," said the minister. He was of the view that it is very crucial for every Tanzanian to take part in developing the country, assuring that the government is always ready to offer whatever needed support. The minister explained in details the ongoing strategic development projects that are in various levels of implementation in Tanzania, citing the construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), The Rufiji hydroelectric power generation project popularly known as Stiegler's Gorge and the revival of the national airline— Air Tanzania Corporation Limited (ATCL). "All these and other projects on infrastructure sector are meant to facilitate business, interaction and movement of people. They will, definitely have something to contribute to the national income," he noted. And for students who are taking virtuous programmes in China, Prof Kabudi reminded them to submit their researches and dissertations to the authorised libraries in Tanzania for the government to work on all findings and recommendations. He said the Tanzania Library Services Act provides that all Tanzanians who have studied higher education abroad have to submit their researches to one of three depository libraries that have been stipulated in the law. The list has Library of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) (for all researches on Agriculture sector) as well as Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS) library for health related studies. On his welcoming remarks, Tanzanian Ambassador in China Mbelwa Kairuki said there are over 4,000 Tanzanians studying in China. "Also there are others who are taking short courses on exchange programmes on various professionals, including health sciences," he said, adding that the embassy has been receiving good cooperation from all Tanzanians living and studying in China. He also told the minister that the number of Chinese companies seeking to invest in Tanzania has been increasing, insisting that the embassy will continue to provide relevant information and facilitation to potential investors and tourists. Being in China, Prof Kabudi will attend the coordinator's meeting on the implementation of the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) outcomes in Beijing between 24th and 25th June. The minister will tomorrow be the guest of honour at the Tanzania Day to be held at the International Horticulture Exhibition— Beijing Expo 2019, where Tanzania has a pavilion. He is also scheduled to attend the first China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo in Changsha City, Hunan Province between June 27 and 29, 2019, where Tanzania is attending as the special guest invitee.