TAIFA Stars suffered a stuttering start into the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) campaign, following a 2-0 defeat in a group C opening match against mighty Senegal yesterday. It was almost one way traffic throughout the game played at a spoonful 30 June Stadium in Cairo. Keita Balde’s first half strike put the Lions of Teranga ahead, following clumsy display from Taifa Stars defenders and midfielder Keprin Diata extended the lead midway in the second half to give Senegal Head Coach Alliou Cisse perfect start into the campaign Coach Emmanuel Amunike started with central defensive par of Kelvin Yondani and David Mwantika, while versatile defender, Erasto Nyoni was left on the bench. Taifa Stars looked to sensational skipper Mbwana Samatta, who led the hunt for goals along with Simon Msuva and Simba captain John Bocco but they struggled to get balls upfront as Stars lacked precision from defence to midfield. Senegal missed their star man Sadio Mane through suspension and the Liverpool star watched on from the stands as he served his one -match ban. Regardless, Senegal still had plenty of quality to call upon to hurt any opponent. In sturdy defender Kalidou Coulibaly, strikers Mbaye Niang and Keita Balde, it meant that Amunike led Taifa Stars faced one of their greatest nightmares in the football world. Taifa Stars were building the ball very slowly and losing possession in dangerous areas, allowing Senegal to threaten frequently. Stars back four was not solid against the physical Senegalese who were winning almost everything around the pitch . It was a bit shaky start for Stars and just two minutes into the game, Feisal Salum ‘Fei Toto’ cheaply lost possession and Aishi Manula had to rush out to clutch Balde’s shot out of danger. Again, three minutes later, Feisal lost possession allowing Mbaye Niang to latch onto the ball but Manula closed the angle for the 24-year-old Rennes forward to hit the side nets. Twenty minutes in, Senegal lost defender Salif Sane after he landed awkwardly as he challenged John Bocco. The 27-year-old who plays for Germany side Schalke 04 had to be replaced. It was a solid start for Senegal as they dominated the first 45 opening minutes. With the assurance and presence of Koulibaly and Salif Sane at the back, Senegal were powered to push as much as they wanted towards the Taifa Stars goal but with caution . In the 28th minute, Stars were down as Senegal netted the opener through Keita Balde, who allowed time and space to shoot as he squeezed a low far post shot past sprawling Manula. With three minutes before the interval, Farid Mussa was thrown into fray as Feisal was called on the bench as Stars were lucky just to be 1-0 down at the half time. Immediately after the restart, Manula had to produce a reflexive save to tip off Niang’s header over the bar. And in the 64th minute, midfielder Keprin Diata’s cracking shot took double deflection off Farid Mussa and Hassan Kessy to sail into the back of the net. After conceding the second, Simon Msuva, who had a quiet game was replaced by Thomas Ulimwengu, as Stars attempted to fight desperately at least to pull one back but Senegal maintained their dominance as they rolled down the clock. Taifa Stars were looking up to lighten the faces of East African fans on their AFCON debut since their only appearance 39 years ago, when they exited the competitions without winning a match and must work to avoid a repetition of the same. In the 1980 AFCON finals, Taifa Stars lost 3-1 to host Nigeria before succumbing to a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Egypt and forced a 1-1 draw against Ivory Coast. It means, the team shipped in six goals and managed to net three goals in the campaign. None of the current crop of Taifa Stars players was born, when the team last competed in the AFCON finals and to be playing again after a record four decades is a show that the team has improved and will be one to watch. However, it was always going to be a monumental task for Stars as they faced perennial contenders Senegal in the first game of group C. Stars were the first team to arrive in Egypt and have played two friendly games in preparation for the AFCON. They lost 1-0 in their first warm-up game against the host nation, the Pharaohs, at Alexandria’s Borg El-Arab Stadium on June 13th, 2019. Three days later, they drew 1-1 with Zimbabwe in their final friendly game, with Mbwana Samatta’s strike cancelling out Knox Mutizwa’s first-half effort at El Sekka El Hadid Stadium in Cairo.