PRESIDENT John Magufuli has instructed district administrative secretaries (DAS) and division executive officers (DEOs) countrywide to work with confidence and act on shoddy implementation of development projects in their areas. The President, however, cautioned them to abide by laws and regulations when discharging their duties. “Take action, where things are not going well, including the implementation of projects such as the construction of government buildings, roads, water and other projects,” he told them on Tuesday at a meeting held at the State House in Dar es Salaam, where all DAS and DEOs from across the country met. The Head of State further directed them to develop an attitude of getting out of their offices and visit their people to hear their problems and find feasible solutions. He said the DAS had to know the role that the DEOs were playing and both of them should cooperate instead of seeing the DEOs as assistants of the DAS in districts. “I don’t expect to see the DEOs involved in corruption, unethical conduct and indiscipline.” He reminded them to know the boundaries of their work, make effective supervision of revenue collection and closely monitor the issuance of identity cards to small-scale traders and entrepreneurs. The district and division leaders were also told to ensure they maintained the achievements realised by the government and encourage their people to work hard and combat theft and embezzlement of public funds. Before addressing them, President Magufuli listened to the challenges facing them in their areas. Some of those, who spoke commended President Magufuli for his untiring efforts in serving Tanzanians, assuring him that they were ready to work hard and monitor the implementation of development projects. Thereafter, the President pledged to set aside 1bn/- for purchasing motorcycles for them as a means of transport to help them in the daily discharge of their duties. The money would be spent on buying the motorcycles for 399 DEOs. So far, 171 DEOs have motorcycles. On the other hand, President Magufuli hailed all DEOs, who had a good record of performance. The meeting was also attended by Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. Minister of State in the President’s Office (Public Service and Good Governance) George Mkuchika and Minister for Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo hailed the President for meeting those leaders. The ministers urged the DEOs to work, while considering public ethics and bring efficiency in their work. The Vice-President and the Prime Minister for their part called on the leaders to cooperate with other civil servants.