MARA Regional Commissioner (RC) Adam Malima has cited Robanda as one of the villages performing well on conservation-related issues. The village is located in the wildlife rich district of Serengeti with its residents living close with wild animals for decades. “You (Robanda) are doing very well on conservation; other villages should learn from you,” the RC said on Tuesday. Mr Malima was speaking during a special ceremony held at the village to introduce the award won by Serengeti National Park as best park in Africa in Mauritius recently to the residents of Mara, Simiyu and Arusha regions. Robanda Village Chairman Mrobanda Japan said poaching for bush meat which had previously been part of a tradition had ceased. “Our main source of livelihood in the past was game meat but we are now conserving wildlife and that is why we have established Ikona Wildlife Management Area(WMA)”, Mr Japan said during the event which was presided over by Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamis Kigwangalla. Dr Kigwangalla urged the people of Mara, Simiyu and Arusha regions and other stakeholders to continue protecting the Serengeti ecosystem for the benefit of the present and future generations. Robanda is one of the five villages that are reaping conservation fruits by generating substantial revenue from tourism investors operating in western Serengeti. The investors include Singita Grumeti which is the largest source of revenue of the IKona WMA. During this financial year alone, the WMA disbursed over one billion shillings to finance various development projects in Robanda and four other neighbouring villages - Niyigoti, Nyichoka, Natta and Makundusi. “ This year, we have dispatched over 200 million shillings to each of the five villages and the funds have been spent on development projects in the villages, “ the WMA’s Secretary, Mr Yusufu Manyanda confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ WMA earns around 3 billion shillings each year. The WMA forms an integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem that was established by the five villages of Serengeti District in 2007. The WMA which forms an integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem received 1,529,289 US dollars (over 3.5 billion shillings) from Singita Grumeti between 2014 and 2018 alone. The money is supposed to transform lives of local citizens and support wildlife conservation activities within the WMA covering 243.2 quire kilometres