VOCATIONAL skills training in Tanzania has received a financial boost amounting to $24 million (about 55bn/-) from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) through the first phase of a tailor- made Skills for Employment in Tanzania (SET) programme. This comes amidst reports by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) indicating that over 80 per cent of the Tanzanian youths are employed in informal, low-skilled and low value jobs, where young women and rural youths are mostly affected. SET was launched in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, and Swiss Ambassador to Tanzania Florence Tinguely Mattli. Prof Ndalichako pointed out that SET would play a crucial role in bridging skill imbalance towards the target of attaining middle-income economy by 2025. The programme will run for 12 years starting this year. “The skilled and competitive labour force is an important contributing factor to address unemployment and achieve an industrialised economy,” the minister noted after the launch of the programme. The Swiss envoy explained that the SET programme, to be implemented by Swisscontact, was aligned to Tanzania’s National Skills Development Strategy (NSDS 2016-2026). Ms Mattli said the programme would work closely with the Vocational Training and Education Authority (VETA), Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Morogoro Vocational Teachers and Training College (MVTTC) and others stakeholders. SET targets between 15 and 24 years old young people, particularly those, who cannot access formal vocational skills development. The strategy aims at strengthening the national capacity of vocational skills development and promote labour market-driver skills development opportunities. “SET will improve prospects of gainful youth employment and self-employment through contribution to improved access, relevance and quality skills,” she explained. Prof Ndalichako commended the government of Switzerland for the support in developing vocational skills for the youth in Tanzania, particularly those in the agricultural sector. The minister informed participants that the government had allocated 40bn/- during the financial year 2018/19 to the construction of vocational training centres in 25 districts countrywide. She explained that the government had allocated funds to rehabilitate and procure modern equipment for 54 Folk Development Colleges (FDCs) across the country. During implementation of SET, over 100 trainers and 5,000 trainees at FDCs will have their capacity improved. In addition, 16,000 youths will be equipped with better agricultural skills, the majority of whom will be young women. “SET will work with 27 public and private training providers to offer short courses in agriculture and agri-business, targeting young people,” the Swiss envoy explained. She pointed further that Switzerland had been providing development assistance to Tanzania since 1981 and continued providing about $22 million in direct assistance annually, covering health, employment and income as well as good governance. The chairman of Daima Associates, Prof Samuel Wangwe, said there was a correlation between development and vocational training. Prof Wangwe was presenting a paper entitled: “The role of Technical and Vocational Training Institutions on fostering development and industrialisation.”