TANZANIAN beneficiaries of Unesco/ Keizo Obuchi Research Fellowships Programme have been urged to utilize knowledge and skills acquired during the programme for national development. The Unesco/ Keizo Obuchi Research Fellowships programme was created in 2000 by Mr Koichiro Matsura , then Director General of Unesco to honor the vision and belief of former Prime Minister of Japan, Keizo Obuchi in the ability of “People to build and transform the world”. Tanzania has been a consistent contender in the fellowship, having already won the award in cycles of 2014 and 2015, in which winners, Ms Fatuma Ubwa and Ms Juliana Kamaghe were awarded fellowships both in category of Information and Communication Technologies. This week , another Tanzanian national, Ms Doreen Mushi was awarded a fellowship in the category of Information and Communication Technologies for 2018 cycle, becoming the third Tanzanian recipient of the programme. Ms Mushi, the Assistant Lecturer at the Open University of Tanzania (OUT), will undertake research on data literacy and learning analytics training for improved students support in learning management systems. The USD 10,000 award will allow Ms Mushi to work for two months with researchers of the Learning Analytics Centre of Kyushu University of Japan and another two months with researchers of the Faculty of Education of the University of British Columbia in Vancouver Canada. Speaking in Dar es Salaam during the awarding ceremony, University of Dar es Salaam Deputy Vice -Chancellor – Research, Prof Cuthbert Kimambo said that it was the government expectations that recipients of the programme, including those who have completed their studies, will play a vital role in participating in the national development. Prof Kimabo was representing the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako. He said the beneficiaries were expected to participate in national development, particularly in areas of strengthening Tanzania’s capacity building activities and advancing knowledge of the state of the arts development in the country. He said other areas included facilitating the transfer and sharing of knowledge, exchange of information and technical cooperation nationally, regionally and internationally, and supporting innovation, research and information in respective fields. Prof Kimambo commended the government of Japan for committing itself to cooperate with UNESCO in enhancing capacity building of human resources in developing countries, including Tanzania. “This partnership between UNESCO and Japan has offered several opportunities to young Tanzanian young to study abroad and bring back to their country an added value of knowledge and skills in the field of scientific research,” he said. On his part, Head of Unesco Office and Representative to Tanzania, Mr Tirso Dos Santos said that the fellowship programme was a collaborative effort between the government of Japan and Unesco in enhancing capacity building of human resources in developing countries. He said the fellowship programme was first launched in 2001 to honor Mr Obuchi, and since then the government of Japan has generously funded 290 fellowships, of which are 82 in Africa through a Unesco co-sponsored programme. Mr Santos said that Ms Mushi competed with 280 contenders in various categories of the fellowship programme in a very competitive process. “Emerging as a winner in the category of ICT is therefore a cause of pride for her and her Tanzania, and a testimony to the quality of higher education in Tanzania,” he noted. Japanese Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Tanzania, Mr Shinichi Goto said that he was glad to note that the programme continue to extend great opportunities to young researchers across Africa. He said that his government established the programme to research in the areas of development in which Mr Obuchi was committed, and had also particular interests to Unesco, namely environment, intercultural dialogue, information and communication technologies and peaceful conflict resolutions.