KAGERA Sugar SC retained their seat in the Mainland Premier League with an emphatic 2-0 win over visiting Pamba FC in a second play off clash at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba yesterday. It was a must win match for either side as they battled to a barren draw in the first leg playoff match held at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza last Monday. It means, Kagera Sugar have won 2-0 aggregate. After a scoreless first half, striker Ali Ramadhan opened the score for Kagera side with a sizzling shot in the 51st minute. He utilized a well calculated pass from Kassim Hamis. Hamis who arrived in Bukoba Municipal yesterday morning by air from Dar es Salaam where he was attending session with the national soccer team, Taifa Stars. He was, however, left on wayside by Coach Emmanuel Amunike. Industrious striker Japhet Makarai sealed off the score for Kagera Sugar scoring with a rasping kick in the 78th minute as Pamba goalkeeper, Deus Tilusubya dived in vain to stop the kick. The happiest man was Coach Mecky Maxime, who has guided the team since 2005/2006 season when Kagera Sugar won promotion to premier league. Kagera side won about seven corners against two of Pamba but most of them were cleared away by defenders. Kagera Regional Commissioner, Marco Gaguti who was chief guest was overcome with delight. “My boys played determinedly. We commend them for the good job that has enabled the team to remain in premier league,” he said. Pamba FC Head Coach, Ali Kisaka, on the other hand, lamented that there was too much security which made his players to play under big tension. At the Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga, striker Salim Aiyee scored twice as Mwadui FC beat Geita Gold 2-1 in another playoff. Mwadui remained in the top flight next season following a 2-1 aggregate win after battling to a barren draw in the first leg match played in Geita last Monday. In the match yesterday, Aiyee opened the score in the 32nd minute but Geita Gold pulled level in the 50th minute through Baraka Jerome. However, with seconds remaining before the finals whistle, Aiyee grabbed a winner for Mwadui to assure them a fourth straight season in the top flight football, while Geita Gold will remain in the First Division League next season.