TANZANIA will attend the coordinators’ meeting on the implementation of the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) outcomes here next week. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba Kabudi will lead the East African nation’s delegation, Tanzanian Ambassador to China Mbelwa Kairuki has confirmed. The summit is part of implementation of the resolutions that China and Africa agreed during the FOCAC summit in September 2018 in Beijing. The resolutions included formation of the summit at the ministerial-level from China and attended by 54 African states. The meeting will consist mainly an opening ceremony and plenary sessions. Party and state leaders of China will attend the important activities and hold group or bilateral meetings with African delegates. Spokesperson of the China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Geng Shuang said after the conference, participants will issue a joint declaration regarding the outcomes and reached consensus. The FOCAC Beijing Summit was held with great success in September 2018, bringing China-Africa relations to a record high. After the summit, China and African countries worked closely with each other to implement agreements and outcomes reached. “We have achieved important progress and reaped early harvests. As the international landscape undergoes profound and complicated changes, the two sides believe it’s necessary to have the coordinators’ meeting to communicate over implementation and steer China- Africa cooperation along the direction of high-quality and sustainable development,” said Mr Geng. He said through next week’s meeting, participants will translate outcomes of the summit into more benefits for the people and show the strong will and firm resolve to strengthen solidarity and cooperation, uphold multilateralism and build a closer China-Africa community with a shared future. “Following the principle of consultation and collaboration for shared benefits, China stands ready to work with Africa to make good preparation for a successful meeting and inject new impetus into the China-Africa comprehensive strategic partnership,” he noted. Speaking to ‘Daily News’, Mr Kairuki said being in China, Prof Kabudi will also have official meeting with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi. “On behalf of the government, the minister is also scheduled to attend the first China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo in Changsha city, Hunan Province between June 27 and 29, 2019,” said the Ambassador. Under the theme of win-win cooperation for closer China-Africa economic and trade partnership, the Expo focuses on key areas, including trade and investment promotion, agriculture technology, energy and power, joint industrial parks, infrastructure and financing cooperation. “So as the country, we look forward to participate fully and benefit from the upcoming programme,” he added. The Expo will be attended by Chinese and African dignitaries, diplomats, governors and mayors as well as representatives from international organisations, financial institutions, chambers of commerce and many others.