EXECUTION of state-owned Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation’s (TASAC) exclusive mandate on clearance of sensitive exports and imports now awaits amendments of the legislation by the National Assembly, the ‘Daily News’ can confirm. TASAC was initially scheduled to implement the mandate on March 4, this year but after consultations with players in the industry it decided to push the date to June 3. However, it has now come to light that application of the new arrangement will be effected only after the legislation for establishment of TASAC is amended during the ongoing session of the august house. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Dr Leonard Chamuriho confirmed yesterday that the exclusive mandate bestowed on TASAC has been put on hold pending adjustment of the law was provided through Section 7 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 14 of 2017. “After putting into consideration issues raised by concerned stakeholders, the government decided that the law be amended to accommodate views of the industry players. There are some issues, which have to be harmonised to enable smooth execution of the exclusive mandate. “The legislation will be tabled through miscellaneous amendments under a certificate of urgency during the ongoing session of the assembly,” Dr Chamuriho told the ‘Daily News’ in a telephone interview yesterday. The PS was nevertheless categorical that adjustments of the law will not alter the exclusivity mandated to TASAC but only put in place proper arrangement for its enforcement. Enactment of the law, which gave the exclusive mandate to TASAC, was aimed at, among others, curbing underdeclaration of mineral exports, fuel imports and controlling imports and exports of arms and ammunitions, live animals and government trophies. The then TASAC Acting Director General, Engineer Japhet Loisimaye, had announced in a public notice that the rescheduling on the enforcement of Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 14 of 2017, aimed at providing enough time to industry players to adjust for effective compliance. TASAC had gazzetted March 4, 2019 as the effective date for enforcement but players in the industry raised concerns on limited time which was provided for adjusting to the new arrangement. Reacting to the adjournment at that time, Chairman of Tanzania Shipping Agents Association (TASAA), John Massawe told the ‘Daily News’ that shipping stakeholders had no problem with enforcement of the legislation but wanted their concerns to be addressed. Secretary General of Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA), Tony Swai was glad that the government had taken on board recommendations of the industry players for smooth enforcement of the law.