THE historic haul of gold amounting to 325kg and 305m/- cash seized from a smuggling syndicate in which police officers in Mwanza Region were implicated early this year, has been officially handed over to the government. At least 325kg of gold, mixtures of other minerals and 305m/- cash have been handed over to the government after the court ruling of a case that involved smugglers, who were arrested in January this year. The handing over exercise was led by Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Biswalo Mganga yesterday. Mr Mganga said the process had been reached after the court closed the matter. Mr Biswalo hailed members of the general public and the judiciary for cooperation, which led the matter to be filed in court and be adjudicated on and reaching the conclusion. According to the DPP, the government has decided to confiscate the gold and the money as no appeal has been submitted to date, implying that the matter has been fully determined and the case has been closed. Speaking on the matter, the Minister for Minerals Dotto Biteko warned people, who were planning to sabotage the economy by smuggling minerals, saying their days were numbered. “I warn stakeholders of the mining sector to be watchful and observe the laws governing the sector. Avoid being involved in greedy dealings and attempting to tamper with our mineral resources. Those doing it won’t succeed,” he said. He said the government had reviewed the mining laws and allowed those interested in investing in the sector to do so more friendly, but stressed that they should comply with the laws of the land and not otherwise. Mr Biteko thanked all stakeholders, who had played a part in making the gold smuggling futile. He said the smugglers could have paid not more than 1.8bn/- as government tax if it was legally sold, but they were suffering massive losses and penalties. The gold smuggling was interrupted by defence and security organs in Misungwi District in January this year with the culprits being arrested and prosecuted before the Mwanza Regional Magistrates’ Court and the ruling made on the matter recently.