SIMBA SC right wing back, Shomari Kapombe ended speculations over his future with the club, after signing new two-year deal. Kapombe failed to serve Simba since last November after sustaining injury, while on national team, Taifa Stars camp ahead of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals qualifiers match with Lesotho ‘Likuena’ in which Stars lost 1-0. The Msimbazi Reds club yesterday released photos of the energetic defender signing a contract extension with the club, ending speculations that he will be dropped due to his recurring injury record. A statement released by the club yesterday, revealed that Kapombe will continue to be part of the team after signing contract extension with the club. “The best right wing back in the country Shomari Kapombe has signed a new two - year contract,” reads the statement released by the club via social media pages. The club has also declared that Kapombe is fully fit and ready to be back in action. “I’m delighted to commit my future to such a great club with ambitions and goals similar to mine in terms of staying at the highest level and I’m looking forward to next season,” Kapombe said. Meanwhile, Simba’s Rwandese midfielder Haruna Niyonzima has confirmed that he will not be part of the club next season. Through his Instagram page, Niyonzima thanked Simba fans for their support during his two-season spell at the club. He did not disclose his next destination, saying he will make it public when time is ripe. “Thank you for the memories we created together; when time comes, I will announce my next stop,” wrote the stylish and creative midfielder. It is reported that Niyonzima is among foreign players, who the technical bench under Belgian trainer Patrick Aussems recommended not to extend their deal. In another development, Ghanaian holding midfielder, James Kotei who joined South Africa giants Kaizer Chiefs has lavished praises to the Msimbazi Reds fans. Kaizer Chiefs have signed Kotei on a three-year contract. The 25-year-old defensive midfielder has left Simba, following a three-year successful spell with the Mainland Premier League giants. Kotei won many plaudits last season for his performances with Simba, and it came as a surprise when they opted against offering him a contract renewal prior to his exit, but their loss is Amakhosi’s gain as they confirmed his arrival on a three-year deal after landing him as a free transfer. In his message, Kotei said; “The first day I set my eyes on this beautiful land, I felt love, and the first day I put on a Simba shirt, I felt proud. “I’m proud to be part of this amazing club where the love for football is second to none. I remember our first Premier League title and the second one, but the day we qualified for CAF Champions League quarterfinals was the best moment of them all. “I can’t thank everyone enough for the unconditional love you made me feel and I’m truly thankful to you all for making Tanzania a second home for me. I can’t lie, every single second was well spent for the past two and a half years but I think the time to say good bye has come unexpectedly. “I will always remember the day we won our first trophy in Dodoma and made our way back to the international football and from that day they stopped calling us ‘wamatopeni’ “Mixed feelings right here as I prepare to take another challenge but I will never ever forget Simba SC, the beautiful city of Dar es Salaam and the bespoke Swahili language which I started to get used to. “I love you guys and you know that but please make sure you support Simba through sun and rain. I hope one day our destinies will intertwine. Thank you for everything and Nawapenda Sana,” he wrote on his instagram page.