AS the death toll of the recent Morogoro fuel tanker fire tragedy hit 100 yesterday, the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) has revealed that most of victims suffered inhalation injury which is one of the leading causes of death in such incidences. MNH Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeon, Dr Laurean Rwanyuma, told journalists in Dar es Salaam that majority of victims taken to the national health facility suffered 80 per cent burns on their bodies. “Inhalation injury is one of the leading causes of death due to fires. It produces injury through several mechanisms, including thermal injury to the upper airway, irritation or chemical injury to the airways from soot and carbon monoxide poisoning,” he explained. The surgeon further explained that, although the facility had all the necessary resources to attend to the victims, some could not make it as a large part of their bodies were burnt. “Burns can affect the body by damaging the skin. When there is a lot of damage, the skin can’t do its jobs properly. This means germs can get in, causing infections. If the burn is large and deep, the body can lose water making it dry and body temperature may be harder to control, so the body can get too cold as heat is lost through the burned area,” he elaborated. Dr Rwanyuma reiterated the commitment of specialists at MNH to save the lives of the remaining patients regardless of the degree they had suffered. According to MNH head of communications Aminiel Aligaesha, they now have 15 patients out of 47 survivors with 13 admitted at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and the other two are in Sewahaji Ward. “We want everyone to understand that the 32 victims did not lose their lives due to lack of resources but most of them suffered 80 per cent burns,” he said. Mr Aligaesha called upon Tanzanians to cultivate a culture of donating blood regularly instead of doing so only when tragedies occur. He told reporters that on a daily basis the facility uses 120 units of blood. Since the tragedy occurred they collected 700 units of blood and other supplies from well wishers. The deadly blast, which took place on 10 August 2019 in Morogoro is the latest in a series of similar disasters in East Africa. Witnesses said the truck tipped over as it tried to avoid a motorcycle, and locals quickly converged on the scene to collect fuel. The explosion was triggered when a man tried to retrieve the truck’s battery, creating sparks that ignited the fuel, according to regional authorities.