MINISTER of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Selemani Jafo, yesterday asked Tanzanians to continue protecting peace at any price, saying there could be no development without maintaining order. He said peace enables citizens to work freely and plan for their future without fear. He said there is no single country across the globe that managed to develop without setting basics on running issues peacefully. Mr Jafo was speaking during the Eid-El-Adh prayers held at Kibadeni grounds in Chanika, Dar es Salaam. “For any country to develop, there must be peace and tranquility to enable investors and wananchi to participate in economic activities,” he said. Mr Jafo said Tanzanians must always stand firm to protect the country’s peace so that all development programmes could be implemented as planned. “There are some few people who wish to disrupt this country’s peace; they will apply whatever means to disrupt peace, we must stand together against them,” he remarked. He expressed his gratitude to religious leaders for praying for the nation, saying hatred and corruption caused both economic and social classes in the society, which was s not good for the country’s development. “Some people are selfish, they are ready to live good lives while other people are going through difficulties. President John Magufuli has is doing everything in his capacity to address the matter,” he noted. He said some leaders had turned public properties into private entities. Today there are some nations that don’t believe Tanzania can purchase brand new aircraft, this is because things were not in order,” he said. Earlier, the Mufti of Tanzania, Sheikh Abubakar Zubeir, asked fellow Muslims to respect the National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA) saying it represents all Muslims in the country. According to the Mufti, at least 36 countries prayed Eid El Adh yesterday and that those who accused BAKWATA of messing up issues must understand their position. He asked the Muslims across the country to embrace peace and maintain unity. In Zanzibar, President Ali Mohamed Shein graced the Eid el Adha celebrations Baraza (special gathering) here remembering the victims of last Saturday’s fuel tank disaster in Morogoro, saying such avoidable tragedy should never happen again. “As we were preparing to celebrate this Eid our beloved ones perished in a fire in Morogoro. Let us pray for the deceased and those who are recovering. Such incidents should not be allowed,” Dr Shein said at the Eid el Adha gathering held at Dole village, Magharib A District on Unguja Island. Eid al-Adha, also called the ‘ Festival of the Sacrifice’ is the second of two Islamic holidays celebrated worldwide each year. The festival also marks the end of the annual Hajj pilgrimage to Holy city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia. In his televised speech, Dr Shein urged civil servants to work harder to achieve development goals as citizens have trust in the government as it has been meeting their expectations, including security assurance. Shein said: “We have been doing well in the economy and implementing the development programmes. Recently, the House of Representatives approved the government budget of 1.4 tri/- for 2019/2020 fiscal year, up from 1.3 tri/- last year.” He said the people should be happy the budget had been increasing annually, an indication that the government was fully committed to ensure the provision of free education and health to its citizens, and gradually avoiding heavy dependence on foreign aid. President Shein commended Members of the Zanzibar House of Representatives for endorsing the budget, and that the achievements being recorded are as in line with the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) 2015/2020 election manifesto. Dr Shein expressed bitterness over vices like Gender Based V iolence (GBV ) and escalating abuse of children, “Why allow this to happen in a civilised country?” he asked. He said that family members and members of the society were to blame for continued abuse because they protected perpetrators by hiding them or tampering with useful evidence against the offenders.