DAR ES SALAAM resident, who allegedly killed his wife and burned her body to ashes, yesterday came up in arms, demanding his mobile phones, which he claimed have over 5m/-. Khamis Luwongo (38) told Senior Resident Magistrate Salum Ally at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in the city that his four mobile phones remain with the police at Central Police Station, with two lines—Airtel and tigo accounts containing over 1m/- and 3m/-, respectively. “I want my phones back so that I can transfer the amount to any of my close relatives for family use. I am told the money will get lost if it remains in the accounts for long time,” Luwongo, alias Meshack, claimed before the court when his murder trial came for mention. However, the prosecution led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon vehemently opposed the request, stating that the mobile phones were being held by the police for the purposes of facilitating investigations into the matter. “Your honour, investigations into this matter have not been completed. These mobile phones are among crucial evidence we are investigating. So I cannot direct the police to release them, as doing so will amount to interfering with the process,” the trial attorney submitted. He reminded the court that the case was still at the committal stage and the court has no jurisdiction to try it, including issuing the order being sought. According to him, the accused’s request has been prematurely brought, claiming that it should have been raised before the High Court. The advocate advised the murder suspect to use other means of writing a complaint letter to Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and copy it to Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) who can judiciously handle the matter. In his ruling, the magistrate dismissed the request, agreeing with the prosecution that the best option the accused could pursue is to write the DPP and raise his concern or wait until the case is committed to the High Court for trial. Since investigations into the matter have not been completed, the magistrate adjourned the trial to September 10, 2019 for another mention. The prosecution alleges that on May 15, 2019, at Gezaulole areas in Kigamboni District in Dar es Salaam, Luwondo killed his wife Naomi Marijani. The prosecution claims that the accused, having killed his wife, allegedly burned the dead body to ashes using two bags of charcoal. It was reported that Naomi went missing from her home at Gezaulole Kigamboni on May 15, 2019 but police investigations revealed that she was killed by her husband. It is claimed that the ashes of her body were buried in Coast region’s Mkuranga District.