TIGO Tanzania has donated 20 computers to Mbeya’s University of Science and Technology (MUST). The telco donated the computers yesterday in its efforts to support the government determination to enhance teaching and learning at higher learning institutions. Tigo South Zone Director, Henry Kinabo, said the computers will benefit 4,630 university students at MUST when handing over equipment. “We [Tigo] believe that the computers will be crucial in transforming the learning experience for the university students and presents an opportunity for them to innovate new technologies and contribute to the economic development of Tanzania,” Mr Kinabo said through a statement. Tigo is committed to improving the education levels of the local universities through improved learning experience to help students and teachers develop the competencies needed for the twenty-first century. The MUST Vice-Chancellor, Prof Aloys Mvuma, said the donation will assist them to impart modern ICT skills and knowledge to the coming generation of professionals to enable the country to meet the needed demand. “It is through such partnerships that we shall be able to impart modern ICT skills…so that the country can meet the demands of the ever-changing information and digital trends in the society and the global economy,” Prof Mvuma said. MUST’s College of Science and Technical Education (COSTE), Principal, Dr John P. John thanked Tigo for supporting the government effort to provide e-learning equipment to the university. “We believe these computers will improve the learning experience and education standards at the university,’’ Dr John said. Recently, the second telco giant, provided 30 desktop computers to secondary and primary schools including Jangwani and Kisutu Secondary Schools in Dar es Salaam, three secondary schools in Mtwara and one primary school in Tanga. Also In 2017, Tigo donated 47 computers to the University of Dodoma which benefitted approximately 36,150 students. To date, a total of 40,780 university students across the country have so far benefitted from Tigo’s support through the provision of computers over the past two years.