I was on social media for my second dose of the day when I saw a woman being literally carried away in court after what it seems like being sentenced. This immediately caught my attention. Why would a seemingly well respected woman be literally carried away by police officers in a court room? I clicked on the link and got to learn about former Judge Tracie Hunter who was the one being carried away to jail for a six-month sentence. She was found guilty of unlawful interest in a public contract, which charged that she gave confidential documents to her brother for a disciplinary hearing in his court job. So basically she broke the law to help her brother and got caught. Now it America this might be a big deal, but here in our beloved continent, well, what can I say? We are familiar with nepotism and the various colours it shows itself on a regular basis. My Tanzanian people can write several books about it since the 2015 developments. What spited my interest in this story was the fact that this former Judge was literally being carried away. She was being carried away. This to me was just too much leaving me to ask if this was a form of protest on her part. One report said, “It’s not so much that Hunter was convicted of a felony in 2014 for mishandling confidential documents during her time on the bench. It’s her hubris and poor behavior in the wake of that conviction that put her at risk of being sent to jail.” Right, this shed better light to the matter. Some other reports claimed that the sentence was racially charged seeing as how she is African American. Whatever the case maybe, she began her jail term and might be out early for good behavior but she will forever be a convicted felon. That said, and of course facing that reality, the least she could do is go out with some dignity. But then again this is me. The thing about breaking the law and in this case, the law she knows in and about is that it will eventually catch up with you. Even our nation’s number one said, he is a future convicted felon. You just know these things; you break the law and it will catch up to you. I just hope he will have some dignity and walk out of the court room. Twitter: @ambylusekelo