THE Tanzania National Blood Transfusion Services (NBTS), Eastern Zone has sent a special thank you note to voluntary blood donors who donated blood for survivors of the recent oil tanker explosion in Morogoro Region. Inspired by the positive response from Dar es Salaam residents who turned up in a big number in the three day blood donation drive held at Mbagala Bus Terminal in Dar es Salaam, recently, Blood Donor Recruiter with the NBTS Eastern Zone, Mariam Juma said at least 155 units were collected and lives could potentially be saved. “We received remarkable support from the permanent residents and visitors alike. Of those, many were first time donors.” she noted in an interview. The three day initiative at the busy area in the City was organized by the NBTS in partnership with Exim Bank Tanzania. A special thank you to the donors comprised of both community members and the bank’s staff who took the time to support the noble deed. Applauding the bank’s dedication towards blood donation drive, Ms Juma urged the bank to continue being the country’s blood ambassador and inspire many more institutions and individuals to join the live saving mission. She said a constant supply of donors is necessary to ensure the blood bank has blood every day. “Blood is a lifesaving product. We encourage people to donate blood as frequently as they can,” she added. Immediately after the immense tragedy in Morogoro region last weekend, blood donation was the most important thing to be done by Tanzanians as most burn patients require replacement of most blood and water lost during wound dressing services. Community members from Morogoro, Dar es Salaam and other parts of the country brought hope by showing up in masses to donate blood. Apart from the Mbagala blood donation initiative by the two entities, many people donated blood at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH). “The blood donated following an emergency is essential for restocking the blood supply. While we can’t know when a fire accident occurs, road accident or life threatening birth complication might happen, we can be prepared by having ample blood ready to distribute immediately,’’ she said.