THE Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF) is happy with the way conservation of most forests in the Eastern Arc Mountains’ chain, where it has spent more than 6bn/- in projects. The Fund that was established and functions as a long-term and reliable funding mechanism to support community development, biodiversity conservation and applied research projects, is promoting biological diversity, ecological functions and sustainable use of natural resources in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania. The observation was made by EAMCEF Executive Director, Mr Francis Sabuni, recently at Kilombero Nature Forest Reserve (KNFR) – one of beneficiaries of the funds, noting that funds are used in raising awareness on the importance of the forests in the mountain chains as well as the environment conservation. Mr sabuni unveiled further that the Fund that was registered in 2001 was originally conceived as a joint initiative of the Government of Tanzania, the Board of Trustees (BOT), the World Bank (WB) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF). Initially, EAMCEF operated as a component of the WB financed project (TFCMP) under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, where a total of US$ 2.4m credit facility was used to finance activities and operations of its seven-year first phase from 2002 to 2009 in its establishment phase. The executive director said that funding of the second phase was initially planned to come mainly from incomes generated from the investment of the endowment capital and as well from the GEF commitment of US$ 70 million, addition to resources acquired from other sources through fundraising activities. “There have been many projects under different reserves (under Tanzania Forests Services) and Udzungwa Mountains National Park (under Tanzania National Parks - Tanapa) to meet the targets we have set and to date we have dished out 6bn/-,” said Mr Sabuni. He added that apart from supporting the reserves directly to ensure conservation and fortification of boundaries, they are supporting villagers around the conserved areas through establishment of projects such as beekeeping, chicken rearing, cattle and piggery projects. The executive director mentioned others as fish farming, improvement of crops growth and such as sunflower, vegetables and tree planting. Other projects are being implemented in schools as well as by vulnerable groups such as the youth and people living with HIV. Mr Sabuni said that the contract expired in May this year and from there they have been working on their own, catalyzing resources to foster conservation of forest biodiversity in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania through investment in sustainable community development and livelihood improvement, sustained financing for protected areas management and financial support to applied biodiversity and climate change research.