THE government in Dodoma has called on regulators to ensure that their regulations and practices are focused on supporting investors and ultimately enhancing social and economic growth in the countryside. Dodoma Regional Commissioner Dr Binilith Mahenge challenged the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), the Tanzania Foods and Drugs Regulatory Authority (TFDA) and the Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) to focus on addressing specific issues but not blocking investors. The regional commissioner made the remarks here over the weekend while launching the country’s brand-new tourism offering, Enotourism. Enotourism or wine tourism, refers to tourism whose purpose is or includes the tasting, consumption or purchase of wine, often at or near the source. Wine tourism can consist of visits to wineries, vineyards and restaurants known to offer unique vintages, as well as organised wine tours, wine festivals or other special events. Speaking at a ceremony also attended by regional commissioners from across seven regions in Tanzanian Mainland, Dr Mahenge announced that the region would host a wine festival in October this year. The festival, according to the commissioner, will offer a platform for wineries to meet and draw challenges and opportunities facing the economy’s sub sector. “We are also looking at how industry players can increase the value of their produces ... this starts from the vineyards to processing factories,” he said. The enotourism and wine festival are billed to increase the number of tourists, especially from the domestic markets and put Dodoma at the map of tourism potentials in the country. Eng Danford Semwenda, the Managing Director of Dane Holdings Limited, says the industry is still struggling to catch up with the foreign products whose production costs are relatively low. He urged the government to consider scrapping the 25 per cent levy on packaging, explaining that the government-imposed charges was adding up the cost of production and subsequently the price of a product. “We are requesting that the 25 per cent levy be waived so we can compete in the market currently dominated by South African-made products,” he noted. Kenji Omori, Director of the Arusha-based tour operator firm-Yembi Adventure, speaking at the ceremony that saw visitors testing a variety of wines and grilled meat (nyama choma), said he was thrilled by the new idea that will open up a tourism corridor in the country’s central zone. “We have been adopted to wildlife tourism mostly in the northern and southern parts of the country ... the industry was dominated by foreign markets and I am optimistic there is a potential for domestic market to begin with,” he noted.