FARMERS countrywide can heave a sigh of relief as the government announces a 13 per cent price cut in the most widely used phosphorus fertilizer for planting. Agriculture Minister Japhet Hasunga announced the indicative prices for Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) fertilizer in the 2019/20 farming season in Dar es Salaam yesterday, threatening serious legal measures against any person selling the vital farming chemical above the ceiling price. The price decrease means that farmers will save between 8,000/- and 10,000/- per 50-kilogramme bag of fertilizer and between 5,000/- and 6,000/- for the 25-kilogramme bag. Also, farmers will save between 1,300/- and 1,500/- in each of the five-kilogramme bag. Minister Hasunga directed district and regional authorities to closely monitor the sales and distribution of the planting fertilizer and pin down traders bent on defying the government’s order. Detailing the sale prices, the minister said that in all regions, an average price of the 50-kilogramme bag of DAP has dropped from 67,103/- in last year’s farming season to 58,419/-. For the 25-kilogramme bag, the price is set at 30,209/- from 35,552/- that the same bag fetched last season. According to the minister, the five-kilogramme bag will sell at an average price of 6,642/-. The bag was last year trading at 7,910/-. “Traders who still have last year’s fertilizer stock should as well comply with these indicative prices, weather they make profit or suffer loss, we have already reached consensus with all stakeholders,” he said. Mr Hasunga assured that the country has enough planting fertilizer, revealing that already 29,000 tonnes have been imported in addition to the stock of 205,435 tonnes. The available fertilizer will soon be distributed to enable farmers confidently start preparations for the farming seasons. However, the prices will drop below the indicative costs, subject to the distance from the Dar es Salaam port, said the minister, revealing that: “The price of the 50-kilogramme bag of DAP in Eastern, Central, Southern and Northern zones, for instance, will range between 51,900/- and 60,300/-.” In the Western, Southern Highlands and Lake Z ones, the indicative price ranges between 57,000/- and 63,200/-, said the minister, stressing that the prices should not go above the regional estimated costs. Indicative prices become effective on September 1, this year, said the minister, reminding the district and regional administration security committees to get prepared for the supervision works. He said that there are possibilities of further decrease in fertilizer prices once cooperative societies get engaged in the business because they are not after profit making but to facilitate farmers. The prices are also likely to drop if more investors establish industries to produce fertilizers in the country, said the minister. The fertilizer industries will not only upgrade farmers but also contribute to the national economy. Mr Hasunga said maize is among Tanzania’s staple food crops highly demanded in the Southern Development Community (SADC), advising Tanzanians to grab the opportunity and produce maize for the expansive markets.