THE 12th edition of Africa Games is due to start today in Rabat, Morocco with athletes from across the continent battle for top honours. Three Tanzanians Judokas left the country early on Thursday for Morocco, to compete in the continental multi-sport event--African Games. The trio, who are scheduled to commence the hunt for medals on Saturday and Sunday, include Anangisye Kwele, Abdulrabi Alawi Abdullah and Ally Hamis Hussein. They are under coach, Innocent Malya. The second contingent of ‘Team Tanzania’ comprising six runners will leave the country on August 21st in time for the event. The runners include team captain Gabriel Geay, who will compete in the 1,500 and 5,000 metres race respectively, Sarah Ramadhani (Half marathon), Natalia Elisante (Half marathon) , Benjamin Kulwa (400m), Ally Khamis Gulam (400 and 800m) and Regina Mpigachai (800m). Currently, the team has set camp at Mkuza in Kibaha, Coast Region continuing with their training and will begin their medals chase campaigns on August 26th and winding up on August 30th this year. The team was presented with the national flag by the Director of Sports in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuph Singo, who challenged the athletes to be good ambassadors of the country, not only through winning medals but also maintain high level of discipline. Rabat Games, which is the 12th edition of the event, will be held from tomorrow to August 30th this year. And, the official opening day will involve more than 6,000 athletes competing in 26 sports disciplines, 17 of which are qualifying to the Olympic Games of Tokyo 2020. It is the first time in the history of the Africa Games that the event will be used as a qualification step to the Olympic Games. In this case, Tanzania athletes will be eager to clinch medals in Rabat Games as well as seeking for qualification for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. ‘Team Tanzania’ came back home empty-handed in the last edition of the event held in Congo Brazzaville in 2015, and this time around the team comprising three Judokas and six runners are eager to end the medals drought in the 12th edition of the quadrennial formally known as All Africa Games or Pan African Games. After running previous 11 editions as the All-Africa Games, the games has been renamed the African Games. The decision for the name change was arrived at, during the Executive Council meeting of the African Union held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in January 2012. The continental multi-sport event held every four years organized by the African Union (AU), with the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA) and the Association of African Sports Confederations (AASC), is being held in the cities of Rabat, Salé, Temara, Casablanca, Benslimane and El Jadida. Morocco got the hosting right following the withdrawal of Equatorial Guinea. In total, Tanzania has won 24 medals since the inception of the event. The first Games were held in Brazzaville, Congo from July 18 to 25, 1965, involving 25 nation including Tanzania, which won bronze medal. The second edition was held in 1973 in Lagos, Nigeria, when Filbert Bayi, won the first gold for the country, whereas boxer Habib Kinyogoli won silver medal. Then, in 1978 Algiers, Algeria, the country won two medals--one silver and a bronze. In the event held in 1987 in Nairobi, Kenya, athletes form Tanzania won seven medals- -two silver and five bronze and Tanzania most successfully campaign in the Games was in 1991 Cairo, Egypt, which the country grabbed five medals--a gold, three silver and a bronze. Four year later in Harare, Zimbabwe Games, Tanzania won two medals –a gold and bronze, while managing only one silver medal at the 1999 edition held in Johannesburg, South Africa. The eighth edition of the event was staged in Abuja, Nigeria in 2003, in which Tanzania won two medals--one gold and a bronze, while in Algiers, Algeria 2007, Tanzania registered a silver medal. The down fall continued in 2011 edition held in Maputo, Mozambique, in which, Tanzania managed only one silver medal. The four-year Olympic rhythm has not missed a beat since, Brazzaville, Congo hosted the 2015 edition in honor of the Games' 50th anniversary and Tanzania took part and failed to win even a single medal.