GOALKEEPER Juma Kaseja’s brilliance between the posts helped Taifa Stars to eliminate Kenya Harambee Stars 4-1 on spotkicks at Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi. The second leg of 2020 African Nations Championship (CHAN) saw teams finishing the normal 90 minutes in a barren draw, hence forcing the winner to be decided on shootout expertise. Kaseja saved two of the penalties to ensure his nation eliminate the host on 4-1. Players who converted their penalties for Taifa Stars were Paul Godfrey, Gadiel Michael and Salim Aiyee. The two neighbouring countries played their second leg match after the first game ended all square at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. Before the yesterday game, Taifa Stars Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije had promised to rectify the mistakes they did in the first leg. “We did some mistakes in the first leg and we are here to rectify. We have worked hard and I’m optimistic we will beat Kenya today and advance,” he told journalists in Nairobi. Ndayiragije reiterated that his side had a big advantage to win, saying that holding Harambee Stars to a goalless draw in Dar es Salaam was a big advantage for his team ahead of the return battle. Skipper and striker John Bocco echoed his sentiments: “The morale in the team was high and we won in Kenya and advanced to the next stage.” Stars had an advantage against disgruntled hosts as it is reported that all was not good in Harambee Stars camp. Either way, the paper reported, Harambee Stars developmental side was unlikely to be in the right frame of mind during Sunday’s CHAN qualifier against Tanzania because its players were yet to receive their camping allowances from the government. The Kenyan law requires all national teams competing in international assignments be funded by the government. Taifa Stars will face Sudan, who got a walk over in the next round. Taifa Stars: Juma Kaseja, Paulo Godfrey, Gadiel Michael, Erasto Nyoni, Kelvin Yondani, Jonas Mkude, Frank Domayo, Salum Abubakar, John Bocco, Iddi Nado, Hassan Dilunga. Subs: Metacha Mnata, Abdulaziz Makame, Salum Aiyee, Feisal Salum, Oscar Masai, ramadhan Shamte. In Kampala, striker Henry Patrick Kaddu scored a hat-trick as Uganda Cranes easily out-witted Somalia 4-1 during the return leg for the opening round of the CHAN 2020 Qualifiers at the Lugogo Stadium. Fellow KCCA club-mate Allan Kyambadde added the other as Uganda Cranes booked a berth to the next round of the qualifiers where they are bound to face Burundi who eliminated South Sudan. Kaddu scored the opening goal through a penalty spot just after three minutes. The penalty resulted from a high boot from Sid Ali Bana Haji that injured the face of Kaddu after a teasing ball into the area from the right by Allan Okello. A minute after the half-hour mark, midfielder Ibrahim Sadam Juma missed the target from close range after being set up by Kyambadde. Barely nine minutes to the break, Kyambadde doubled Uganda Cranes lead following a solo effort. Kaddu found his second goal on the day, still from the spot after Allan Kayiwa was tripped in the area. Fresh from AFCON 2019, Kaddu sent the goalkeeper Ibrahim Ali the wrong way.