THIRTY kilometres from Nachingwea Township in Lindi region lies an important icon for the liberation struggle in Southern African countries. The place is called Farm 17. The buildings at the estate which are now housing Farm 17 Secondary School were once occupied by freedom fighters from Southern African countries. Notable among prominent leaders who used to stay at Farm 17 include founding President of Mozambique, Mr Samora Machel as well as the first President of Zimbabwe, Mr Robert Mugabe. The farm remains one of important features for freedom fighters who were hosted by Tanzania under the leadership of the founding President of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Samora Machel is said to be among leaders who stayed at Farm 17 for a very long as he mobilized fellow freedom fighters until Mozambique gained her independence from Portugal in 1975. The founding Headmaster of Farm 17 Secondary School who is now the head of Nachingwea Secondary School complains, Mr Longinus Nambole, however that buildings at they are falling into ruin despite its great legacy in liberation struggle for southern African countries. Originally, Farm 17 was groundnut growing scheme by British colonialists in the failed Tanganyika groundnut scheme in late 1940’s. Farm 17 was later used as a camp by FRELIMO during Mozambique national liberation struggles and later as a training base for freedom fighters from Zimbabwe, Angola and South Africa. With abandoned two-kilometre long dugout used by Samora Machel and his crew, the dilapidated house is currently serving as quarters for Farm 17 Secondary School members of staff. The Headmaster of Farm 17 Secondary School, Zakaria Budimu said the school tries to take care of the building but had no budget for its renovation. “As a school we have no plans for renovation as we don’t budget for that. That (renovation) requires a lot of money. What we do is to take care of it,” he explained during an interview with journalists from the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN). The educator urged the government to renovate the building and develop the area so as to attract tourists. “The government should do something to renovate the house and the dugout. It should make arrangements to develop this place,” he said. The Chairman of Nachingwea District Council, Ahmed Mr Salum Makoroganya, earlier said every year the Mozambique Ambassador in Tanzania, embassy officials and some Mozambique nationals visit the area. He said they were planning to promote the place and receive a significant number of Mozambique people who resided in Nachingwea during their independence struggles. He said they were expecting students from Nachingwea University opened in Mozambique to visit the place to learn about independence struggle by FRELIMO freedom fighters. The University takes its Farm 17: An important icon of liberation struggle in Southern Africa name from the main political-military centre in Nachingwea where FRELIMO trained its guerrilla army during the war for Mozambique’s independence from Portuguese colonial rule. Given its history, residents explained that some of freedom fighters sired children with sired Tanzanian women. As such there are children who are now adults whose fathers came from Mozambique, Angola, Botswana, South Africa and South Africa. President Julius Nyerere of Tanzania (right) is flanked by his counterparts Samora Machel of Mozambique (centre) and Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia (left) at FRELIMO training camp, Farm 17, in Nachingwea, Lindi Region of Tanzania in 1972