THE defence yesterday asked the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Dar es Salaam to order the Prisons Department to take freelance Journalist Erick Kabendera to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) for medical examination, as he is sick. Advocate Jebra Kambole told Principal Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega when Kabendera’s case came for mention that the accused had been experiencing some health complications, while in Prison remand, but it was not known what his ailment is. Giving more details on the matter, the Defence Counsel explained that on August 21, 2019 at night, Kabendera started getting breathing problems and later lost consciousness. “We request this Court to direct the Prisons to take him to Muhimbili, where we believe there are sufficient facilities,” he appealed. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, however, objected to the invitation by Defence Counsel, submitting forcefully that the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain such as the case against the accused falls under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. According to him, in terms of section 3 of the Act, the Court vested with jurisdiction to hear the case is the High Court and that the Lower Court has not been conferred with such powers to do anything in the case as per section 12 (3) and 26 (1) of the same Act. In her short order, however, the Magistrate said that the issue would be determined later by the Magistrate who was assigned to conduct the proceedings. Magistrate Mtenga conducted the yesterday’s proceedings on behalf of Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile who is on official mission. Earlier, the prosecution had informed the Court that investigations into the matter have not been completed and requested for another mention date. The magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and adjourned the case to September 14, 2019. In the case, Kabendera (39), who resides at Mbweni areas in Kinondoni District, is charged with three counts of leading organised crime, money laundering and evading payments of tax amounting 173m/- to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). The prosecution alleges that on diverse dates between January 2015 and July 2019 at various places in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam, with other persons not in court, Kabendera knowingly furnished assistance on the conduct of affairs or a criminal racket with either to reap profit or benefits. It is alleged that within the same period in the city, without reasonable excuse, the Journalist failed to pay tax amounting to 173,247,047/02 payable to the TRA. On money laundering, the Court heard also that within the same period and places, Kabendera acquired the said sum, while at the time of receipt, he knew that the monies was the proceeds of predicate offences of tax evasion and leading organised crime.