FIVE Tanzanian upcoming female journalists were among award winners of the African Union (AU) award and grant named the African Women in the Media conference (AWiM19), held in Nairobi Kenya last month. MS Zahara Tunda, 25, pitched a story on African Union Free trade sustainability award, where she was announced the winner in that category. According to her, it was not an easy thing as she struggled to make her short video pitch barely three days before the deadline, with help of a man she barely remembers at a hotel in Dar es Salaam. “It was a bit stressful, I asked the guy at the hotel to help me record a 30 second video on a story idea that I had. We recorded nearly a hundred short video clips until we finally got the right one,” she says. Later, she managed to polish what she considered as the best clip and submitted it to the event organisers on time, which was later selected as one of the best and she was selected to attend a full sponsored AU African Women in the Media conference (AWiM19) in Nairobi Kenya. Zahara emerged the winner, where she got a trophy and the AU African Union Free trade sustainability award, along with another Tanzanian journalist, Vincensia Fuko and Ugandan Culton Scovia. Two other winners, Mary Mwendwa and Chritabel Ligami were from Kenya and they won in other categories. Ms Zahara was among the youngest winners and with limited experience in journalism compared to seasoned journalists she was pitched against. Her journalism career began in 2017, when she graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Mass Communication at the University of Dar es Salaam’s School of Journalism and Mass Communication (UDSM, SJMC). Since then, she has been working as a co blogger for Nukta Africa (www.nukta.co.tz) as a data journalist, and also as a content contributor for Jamhuri newspaper and Mlimani Radio. Zahara says that self-confidence and determination helped her to focus on her target, and the presence of seasoned journalists did not deter her from trying her luck. She encouraged other women in the media to never give up or be intimidated in their daily activities, saying that determination usually wins the day for those who attempt. “Use of technology to Tanzanian farmers is still a myth, this exposes them to exploitation and forces them to sell their produce at relatively low price in the market, because they cannot connect with potential buyers and end up benefiting smart middle men. My dream is to generate a mind opening content for women farmers to stand out and use technology to farm and market their activities,” she says. Dreaming to push ahead her writing spirit on technology issues and generate impactful stories, Zahara still has a lot to do especially for her fellow women in the media. he is currently the country coordinator of WANADATA, an African women data journalism initiative aiming to promote young female journalists to champion data journalism.