TANZANIA Under-20 women football side, Tanzanite kick off their campaign in the COSAFA U-20 Women’s Championship today, when they face their counterpart Botswana at the Gelvandale Stadium in Port Elizabeth in South Africa. Tanzanite, who are there as invited team, have been drawn in group B alongside Botswana, Zambia and Eswatini. They are gunning for the glory in tournament, which kicked off at the Nelson Mandela Bay on Wednesday, July 31. The event climaxes on August 11th this year. Team coach, Bakari Shime alias ‘Black Wizard’ bragged that his side is looking to post positively results against Botswana, part of full filling their target of seeking to become the first guest side at a COSAFA event to walk away with the main trophy. After facing Botswana in their opener, Tanzanite will then face Eswatini two days later, before closing out their pool play with a clash against Zambia next Tuesday. The top two teams in each pool will advance to the semifinals. Meanwhile, in the opening day of the tournament yesterday in Port Elizabeth the host side, South Africa’s Banyana Banyana wiped out Comoro, Les Coelacantes by a record 17-0 at the Wolfson Stadium. As Refiloe Jane scored four goals, with Amanda Mthandi scoring a hat-trick and Busisiwe Ndimemi and Bambanani Mbane recording a brace in the match which was one-way traffic would be a massive understatement as South Africa rattled up their biggest-ever victory in international football. While Banyana can look back on a dominant performance that broke Zimbabwe’s tournament record of 15 goals in a match, the debutant Comoros will have left the Kwa Zakhele Stadium a destitute lot. They simply had no answer against a far more experienced Banyana side. The teams faced off five years ago and on that occasion, South Africa won 13-0. However, this time around Banyana comfortably added four more goals. The defending champions next face Malawi tomorrow at the same venue. Banyana were expected to be the stronger of the teams but before the game coach Desiree Ellis said she would not underestimate any opponent. However the game turned to be a onesided show as Banyana gave Les Coelacantes no chance to play.