FISHING, agriculture, livestock, tourism and minerals are among the key sectors with numerous investment opportunities in various parts of Kagera Region. These opportunities have been revealed during the ongoing Kagera Investment Forum, which kicked off from August 12 and ends today. The forum was organised by the regional office with a view to promoting investment opportunities in Kagera, while connecting local business persons with foreign ones from the neighbouring Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), who attended. It is also for the creation of local markets in all those neigbouring countries. Over 300 Tanzanians and foreigners have participated in the forum, which was launched by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Wednesday this week. Fishing tops the list of investment opportunities due to the presence of inland fresh water bodies like lakes, rivers and part of Lake Victoria, part of which belongs to Kagera Region. To make fishing most productive and attractive to many investors, district councils and Bukoba Municipal Council have been coming up with various approaches, including the introduction of cage fish farming. It is a kind of fishing, which involves placing of cages in water to protect aquatic species (mostly fish species), until they are ready for harvest. Some areas are going to be demarcated and given to registered and licensed fish farmers, according to Bukoba Municipal Council fish expert, Ignatio Rwinwa. He told ‘Daily News’ that application of the new technology would take place soon after the review of the Fishing Act was completed. The review is for allowing technology application in the country as previously the Act didn’t allow cage fishing to avoid the monopolisation of caged areas by fish farmers. “Cage fishing is of most importance because currently, Lake Victoria is accessed by anybody, randomly fishing, while some fishermen use illegal fishing gear. The technology will allow one to fish at one’s own time,” he said. Cage fishing will allow owners to feed their fish with supplement foods, a situation that will fish to grow well and attract good prices in the market. He further noted that supplement feeds were similar to those given to any type of domestic animals, including cattle and poultry. “Supplements will, therefore, increase fish farmers’ incomes, while contributing to the municipal council and the nation’s economy,” stressed Mr Rwinwa. For his part, Municipal Council Director Limbe Bernard said despite the fact the technology had not yet been in use, available fish species were enough to feed fish processing industries. “Availability of raw materials is a result of the fight against illegal fishing, while encouraging the use of modern technology in fishing activities,” said the director. He noted that despite the availability of enough fish, there was only one investor in the municipal council, while over 30 surveyed plots had been set aside for small, medium and large industries. “We encourage both local and foreign investors to utilise this opportunity since our municipal council is in strategic area, where people from the neighbouring countries are met,” he said. Cage technology is also eagerly awaited in Muleba District Council, where at least 123,000 tonnes of fish have been farmed per year. District Council Executive Director (DED), Emmanuel Sherembi said a public awareness campaign was already in progress about the benefits of the technology to individuals, the council and the nation at large. According to him, the campaign involves looking for investors as Muleba has no fish processing industry although there are many fish species. “We also lack ice-making factory to the extent that people are forced to travel to Mwanza to buy preservative materials. We are, therefore, in need of investors and the plots have already been set aside for industrial activities,” said the DED. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig-Gen Marco Gaguti supported the idea, saying investors were needed in the sectors of agriculture, tourism and livestock, assuring availability of raw materials to feed industries. “The assurance is due to the fact that Kagera had received enough rainfall for two years,” stressed the RC. He also said there were markets for both agricultural and industrial products given the fact that Kagera was the only region in Tanzania, which bordered four countries, namely Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Kenya, while DRC and South Sudan were also easily reached from Kagera. “People in those countries are in need of various products from Tanzania. We have been seeing traders from those countries coming to Kagera to buy various products. It is, therefore, high time for Tanzanians to utilise the market there,” he said. To make facilitate businesses, the region has introduced investment guidelines, which were launched by the PM. “In totality, there are many untapped opportunities in Kagera Region and the government has improved roads to facilitate business interactions in and outside the country,” he said.