TANZANIA is among African countries that have successfully created good environment for doing business and investing, the key issues for the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Acting Director, Industrial Development and Trade, SADC Secretariat, Calicious Tutalife said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Tanzania has done an incredible investment in the infrastructure sector, which is the key pillar in economic growth. Mr Tutalife said investment creates good environment of doing business and gives assurance to investors in the country. Mr Tutalife said he was welcomed by a new, modern and attracting Julius Nyerere International Airport terminal III upon his arrival in the country on Saturday. “I was welcomed by the new airport terminal, when I landed…on my way to city centre I realised the improved roads and a new fly-over, this is an incredible investment,” he explained. He added that Tanzania is also investing in the construction of modern railway line, ports and other areas in the infrastructure sector. “I must say, Tanzania has changed in one year, we see things moving and this is in line with SADC objectives,” he noted. SADC members agreed on the regional infrastructure development master plan during their summit in August 2012. The plan guides development in key infrastructure like road, rail and ports and also acts as a framework for planning and cooperation with development partners and the private sector. Infrastructure was also the key component of the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan. Mr Tutalife was speaking ahead of SADC industrial week, which is scheduled for launching today. He said owing to good environment of doing business, a good number of exhibitors and participants have been recorded this time around. “We have overwhelming number of industrialisation week participants, this is good sign and it is very encouraging,” he said. He added that the government of Tanzania has invested in hosting SADC industrial week and the summit and that the commitment means a lot to the development of the region. “I understand that Tanzania has invested its money in this summit, but again, a number of delegates and various participants are going to leave money here,” he said. A total of 16 Heads of State and Government are scheduled to meet in Dar es Salaam for a two-day summit on August 17 and 18, 2019. During the summit, President John Magufuli will assume the SADC chairmanship for the year to August 2020. His endorsement for the chairmanship was done in the last summit in accordance with the SADC Treaty, which provides for the Vice Chairperson to take up the chairmanship on having successfully held the Vice-Chairmanship in the previous year.