EXTENSION Officers countrywide have been urged to work hard in the fields as they help farmers in their agricultural activities to raise their yields. Making the appeal at a one-day workshop yesterday, Mwanza Assistant Regional Administrative Secretary Economic and Productive Sectors, Emil Kasagara, further said that they should work as a team with agro dealers and media to educate the farmers on the right methods and latest skills to be applied in the farms. Mr Kasagara further said that Tanzania has enough experts in the sector, though, not fully exploited by the farmers, which in turn make them not perform satisfactorily. “I would be glad if agricultural professionals worked hard as traffic officers working tirelessly day and night to ensure safety of passengers on roads. Agriculture in this country must benefit a farmer and increase his/her income. “As agricultural experts, we have forgotten our responsibilities, if you ask most of us about agricultural plans they have, you will find that they do not even have a work plan and schedule,” he said. However, he called upon the Agricultural Officers to continue running awareness campaigns in the public especially on proper use of fertilizers to enable farmers get enough and quality yields, saying: “The current production of 120 kilogrammes per acre should rise to between 800 to 1000 kilogrammes per acre.” On his part, the African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership ( (AFAP) Country Manager, Mr David Kijazi said the aim of the training was to put in place preparation for the distribution of farm inputs in this 2019/20 agricultural season to enable farmers use fertilizers effectively. “With our activities we are preparing farms to teach farmers practically on how to use fertilizers, but in the Lake Zone regions we have found very few farmers, who are using fertilizers,” he added. The African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership is an independent non-profit organization founded in 2012 by a partnership of African development organization. It was built on the work of the Comprehensive African Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP), a framework for achieving ambitious agricultural goals set in place by African nations and leaders.