MAJORITY of motorcycle road crash victims especially ‘Bodaboda’ riders reporting and being admitted at the National Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI), claim to have no relatives and friends to foot their medical bills. That was made in a revelation to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday by an Orthopedic and Trauma Specialist at MOI, Dr Kennedy Nchimbi, further saying that perhaps they do so to seek sympathy from the management of MOI in order to undergo free medical treatment and free meals. He said that such circumstance was forcing the hospital management to take care of them including providing them with meals and clearing their medical bills. “Some of them are brought here by Good Samaritans and become admitted, but later they claim to have no relatives or friends to take care of them and pay their medical bills,” the medic pointed out, adding that such patients depend on the hospital’s hospitality and later released on exemptions. Dr Kennedy said that the majority of bodaboda road accident victims especially admitted at the Emergency Unit, do not have insurance health or any other personal medical cover(s), leaving them at the mercy of the institution. He said that only four out of 50 to 60 bodaboda road crash victims received for treatment at MOI per month have health insurances. However, MOI Welfare and Public Relations Manager, Juma Almasi said that 60 percent of the patients, including other Highway road accident victims are normally treated under MOI’s Social Welfare bills. Mr Almasi said that such patients, including the motorcyclists have their treatment costs catered for by the Social Welfare under the country’s exemption policy. Following the move, the hospital urges the need for insuring motorcyclists and other motorists with health insurances to help cut down expenses on the government. It is estimated that 3.4 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Products is lost as a result of Road Traffic crashes in Tanzania. A research conducted by MOI Orthopedic Specialist, Dr Bryson Mcharo, reveals that the rate of injury for people in lower income groups was 2.5 times greater than those in higher socioeconomic brackets. In addition, the move indicates that the majority of the road crash victims are unable to foot their medical expenses. Entitled ‘Motorcycle Crash: Injuries Pattern and Associated Factors among Patients Treated at MOI, the research indicates that in 2010 motorcycle crash injuries were responsible for 30.8 per cent of all road traffic injuries treated at the emergency department. The road traffic crash injuries were 56 per cent of all patients admitted to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH). Dr Mcharo said that motorcycle crash is a major problem at MOI, where the majority of the victims are the youth. “Since motorcycle crashes are preventable and associated factors known in law, stiff restrictive and regulations should be put in place. Also educational programmes on road safety should be implemented in Primary Schools,” he said. The Commission for Global Road Safety issued a call for a Decade of Action for Road Safety in its 2009 report that required the acceleration investment in road safety in low-income and middle-income countries. Among other matters, and change approaches to measurement of national progress in transport policy.