YOUNG Africans skipper Papy Tshishimbi has said the team needs to improve in striking, for them to recover and win matches in the Mainland Premier League. His reaction followed by a heart-breaking 1-0 defeat at the hands of the Ruvu Shooting in their opening match of the season at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. Saadat Mohamed scored the solitary goal as Ruvu Shooting goalkeeper, Bidii Hussein was probably man of the match, putting up a stunning 90 minutes performance after keeping Yanga attackers at bay, thwarting myriads of forays. “We need to be clinical in the final third…we wasted open scoring opportunities and this much change in the gaming games,” said the Congolese midfielder. Tshishimbi said players are aware that Yanga fans are dejected with the results but insisted that it is just the beginning of the season and there are still 37 matches to play, saying they will improve in the next match. “We know that our fans are dejected but they must understand that this is football and must have faith in their team,” he said. He said they (players) clearly know their fans had high hopes with the team after excelling in CAF Champions League but said the continental football is different from league matches, where players knows each other very well. “This is why it was not an easy game against Ruvu Shooting, they were good in marking and closing our channels. We also created chances but failed to make the most out of them, regardless, we will not lose hope and come stronger in the next match,” he said. On his side, Yanga Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera, felt that his side was undone with the fatigue as they arrived just two days before the match from Gaborone, Botswana, where they dumped out Township Rollers with a 1-0 win in CAF Champions League clash. Zahera blamed the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) for their refusal to reschedule the match, saying his players were tired and they needed time to recover. Match winner Saadat was pleased to help his team snatch maximum points against Yanga, saying the victory will give them momentum going to the coming matches. “I’m happy to score against Yanga. We were better in marking and won most second balls,” he said. Ruvu Shooting Spokesperson Masau Bwire said victory against Yanga; signifies that Tanzanian players are capable of dinning in the same table with foreign players. “Our players have shown great potential today. When you look at both sides, Yanga were full of foreign players and we had none in our side but we contained them. A win against Yanga today also shows that Ruvu Shooting is stronger than Township Rollers,” he said. Bwire also blamed match referee Martin Saanya for denying them a clear goal, insisting that action must be taken against poor refereeing. It was a perfect start of the season for Ruvu Shooting, who were determined to break the jinx and register their first ever victory over Yanga. Prior to yesterday’s encounter, Ruvu Shooting had never won a league match against Yanga, since their promotion into the topflight league 13 years ago and they opened a new chapter, spoiling their opponents’ party of advancing into the first round of the Champions League.