YOUNG Africans suffered a heartbreaking loss of the Mainland Premier League opener yesterday, following a shock ing 1-0 loss to Ruvu Shooting at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Saadat Mohamed scored the solitary goal as Ruvu Shooting goalkeeper, B idii Hussein was probably man of the match, put up a stunning 90 minutes performance after keeping Y anga attackers at bay, thwarting myriads of forays. Fresh from their CAF Champions League victory over Township Rollers of B otswana, Y anga were still in celebration mode and somewhat underrated Ruvu Shooting. And Yanga, who last season finished runners up, were expected to use all lethal weapons they used in B otswana to punish Ruvu Shooting but found the going tough. It was a perfect start of the season for Ruvu Shooting, who were determined to break the jinx and register their first ever victory over Yanga. Prior to yesterday’s encounter, Ruvu Shooting had never won a league match against Yanga, since their promotion into the topflight league 13 years ago and they opened a new chapter, spoiling their opponents’ party of advancing into the first round of the Champions League. It was a strong start for Y anga and just 38 seconds in, Namibian striker, Sadney U rikhob missed from a sitter. Congolese striker, David Molinga flicked the ball to Juma B alinya, who also set up Urikhob three metres out but he fired well over the bar. Yanga came knocking again in the 4th minute, when left wing back, Ally Sonso’s cross deep in the box found skipper, Pappy Tshishimbi but his header was parried off by agile goalkeeper Hussein before defenders cleared their lines. Mwinyi Zahera charges continued launching forays through Patrick Sibomana, B alinya, Molinga and U rikhob but Ruvu Shooting defence led by their shot stopper, Hussein stood firm to neutralize the venom. Against the run of play, the army men opened the scorer through Sadaat in the 20 th minute after racing to a perfect pass from Said Dilunga and managed to shake off defender, Kelvin Yondani before chipping past goalkeeper, Farouk Shikalo and silenced Yanga supporters. Yanga maintained their control as Ruvu Shooting under new Coach Salum Mayanga, sat on their half to absorb pressure and opted to use the pace of their strikers – Dilunga, Sadaat and Shaaban Msala to hit their opponent on the break. Molinga came into the picture again in the 32 nd and 37 th minutes, when the striker was set by Sibomana but his on target bullet header was superbly saved twice by goalkeeper. Few minutes before the interval, B alinya miscued his header after being set up by U rikhob inside the box. In the second half, Ruvu Shooting thought they have scored the second, when Saadat finished off Msala’s good work, but referee Martin Saanya adjudged it for an offside, although replays suggested that it was a clear goal. With time running out, Zahera introduced Mapinduzi B alama for B alinya in the 52 nd minute, Maybin Kalengo came for Urikhob and Mrisho Ngasa replaced Sibomana to strengthen his striking force in search for an equalizer and probably the match winner. Ruvu Shooting brought in Abdulrahman Mussa for Christopher Edward, while Saadat was replaced by Moses Shaaban. Y anga continued to commit bodies forward but kept wasting chance after chance. Tshishimbi’s powerful header on target was smartly saved by goalkeeper for an abortive corner. Defending champions Simba will face JKT Tanzania at the same venue today. They will be playing like a wounded bull following a heartbreaking exit from the CAF Champions league, after being forced to a 1 -1 draw at home by UD Songo of Mozambique. Hence they are forced to win at any cost so as to restore lost faith of their fans and supporters.