MAINLAND Premier League champions Simba SC were yesterday awarded 100m/- cheque from their main sponsors SportPesa, for winning 2018/2019 league title. Simba, who took the glittering trophy to the SportPesa headquarters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, have vowed to defend the title in the coming league season, which kicks off on August 23rd this year. SportPesa Managing Director, Pavel Slavkov together with the company’s Director of Administration and Compliance Tarimba Abbas, presented the dummy cheque to Simba’s Assistant Captain Mohammed Hussein, following the successful season they had enjoyed. Speaking shortly after the presentation, Tarimba said the company was fulfiling the pledges they made that once any team they sponsor win the Mainland championship, they will be awarded 100m/-. “Today, we fulfil one of the promises we committed ourselves to, when we firstly signed the sponsorship agreement with Simba SC two years ago by handing over a 100m/- dummy cheque as a bonus to any partner team that will emerge league winner,” he said. Meanwhile, former Simba striker Emmanuel Okwi has signed a two year deal with Egypt Premier League outfit Ittihad Alexandria. Ittihad Alexandria beat a wide range of clubs to the signature of the former Sports Club Villa talisman. The move was brokered by FIFA agent Geoffrey Kayemba, who was also the main link chain in the transfer of Khalid Aucho. Okwi had been sought by clubs in Saudia Arabia, Morocco, Tunisia, his immediate past club Simba as well as Premier Soccer League (PSL) club Kaizer Chiefs. Ittihad Alexandria club president Mohamed Mosselhi confirmed to have finalized the deal with Emmanuel Okwi and the Ugandan striker signed a two year contract until 2021. Okwi scored two goals for Uganda Cranes against DR Congo and Zimbabwe at the 2019 AFCON final in Egypt. He has previously played at SC Villa, Simba, Etoile du Sahel, Young Africans and Sonderjyske in Denmark. After Aucho joined Misr Mikassa, he was followed by Abdu Lumala at Pyramids. Pyramids, for starters, is also home to former Uganda Cranes head coach Sebastien Desabre.