SIMBA SC first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula has described his compatriot Beno Kakolanya as a competitive shot stopper who will help a lot the club. Injured Manula has been out of action for the past three matches which Simba played, he missed the international friendly encounter against Power Dynamos of Zambia, the first leg CAF Champions League (CAF CL), tie against UD Songo (0-0), played in Mozambique. As well as the Community Shield clash against Azam FC (4-2), held on Saturday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. He was also sidelined during the national team, Taifa Stars CHAN qualifiers matches against Kenya’s Harambee Stars staged in Nairobi with his position taken over by veteran goalie, Juma Kaseja. Manula hopes Kakolanya will perform this weekend when the defending champions host UD Songo at the 60,000 capacity National Stadium, knowing that a win is the only guarantee to take them through into the competition’s next round. Recently, the club announced that their priority in CAF CL this season is to reach into the semi-finals to surpass last term’s achievement which saw them competing in the group stages. However, speaking in Dar es Salaam recently, Manula said he is happy to see that Simba managed to capture Kakolanya saying he is one of the best goalkeepers in the country. “To say the truth, he (Kakolanya), is a good goalie and all the time, I have seen him as potential person. Simba have signed him to help lift the club to another level. It does not matter when the goal is being guarded by me or him, we are all working towards achieving the goals of the team,” he said. Asked whether he will be fit against UD Songo on Saturday at the National Stadium in the city, Manula said he can’t confirm on that because he is still undergoing treatment. He then lauded his side for displaying q uality football saying they have made good player signing and that they are ready for another challenge coming ahead. Kakolanya who crossed the line from traditional rivals Young Africans, joined the Msimbazi-Street giants on a free transfer deal after ending his contract with the former club. He has since won the trust of Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems to the extent that he has included him in all the past competitive games played. He was the talk of the nation last season during the first round derby clash between Yanga and Simba which ended all sq uare. On the day, Kakolanya was a hero following his brilliant saves to deny Simba which likely looked a side to emerge winners on the day. The Reds dominated the game no wonder they recorded 10 shots on target against 3 posted by their opponents Yanga and in terms of possession, the former had 62 percent over 36 percent by the latter.