AS part of the events leading to their annual ‘Simba Day’ celebrations, members and fans of Simba SC in Arusha have been busy in series of community services, including donating blood to patients in Arumeru District. More than 60 members of the club arrived in a convoy of three vehicles at the Patandi Hospital in Arumeru District to boost the hospital’s blood bank with plasma donations as well as conducting other humanitarian services. The Simba Regional Secretary for Arusha, Thabit Ustadhi led the delegation and explained that, other than donating blood, supporters of Simba also visited the inpatients at the hospital, cleaned up the facility and issued some basic supplies to the sick persons admitted there. “We gave them soaps, bottled water, towels, toothpastes, toothbrushes and detergents,” said Ustadhi, adding that all these were part of community services done in preparation for the 2019 ‘Simba Day’ climax coming up on August 8th. The coordinator of the Arumeru District Safe Blood department, Dr Abdallah Aziz stated that, out of the entire entourage, 25 members of Simba volunteered to donate blood though only 20 managed to successfully accomplish the task. The Arumeru District Commissioner, Jerry Muro who graced the occasion at Patandi Hospital said, despite himself being a fan of Young Africans, he has been impressed by Simba’s commitment to the society. “People know me very well as being a dedicated fan of Yanga, who are traditional rivals of Simba; however what our nemesis have just done here deserves to be emulated by other people including Yanga supporters,” said Muro who previously served as spokesperson of Young African Sports Club (Yanga). The commissioner was on view that, sports united people and therefore regardless of one’s support to particular team, the country and its people should come first. “We should not be separated by team’s colours, if a certain club does something good all of us should support that,” Muro maintained. Simba members in Arusha have increased their branches to 15 in Arusha alone, as the team gears towards their major day on the 8th of August this year.