THE United Nations base in Tanzania has showered praise on the government for utilising internal resources to finance development activities, thereby reducing dependence on donor funding. Likewise, the Vice-President, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, says the country remains committed to continue championing reforms of the United Nations, which have been adopted in various areas. Statements issued to the media by the Vice-President’s Office and the Prime Minister’s Office observed that the UN Resident Coordinator, Mr Alvaro Rodriguez, visited the two leaders to bid them farewell after completing his time of service in the country. When Mr Rodriguez visited the PM’s office, he noted that Tanzania had continued using its own resources to strengthen its infrastructure and other social services, including construction of hospitals and health centres. “Throughout the five years I have served in Tanzania, I have witnessed massive development changes carried out by the government. This has further strengthened relations between the UN and its other institutions which are operating in the country,” said Mr Rodriguez. The UN Resident Coordinator also praised the government for successfully preparing and hosting the 39th Ordinary Summit of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Heads of State and Government which was held on August 17 and 18, this year. He further complimented the media on the way they collaborated with the government to report the various events which took place during the summit. On his part, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa expressed his gratitude for the good gesture extended by the UN Resident coordinator, noting that it was a clear manifestation that they were recognising the efforts undertaken by the government under the leadership of President John Magufuli. The premier added that “What has been echoed by Mr Rodriguez clearly demonstrates the sentiments of President Magufuli that Tanzania is not poor and based on its resources it can qualify to be a donor country.” He urged people to continue supporting the government. Mr Majaliwa extended recognition to the UN Resident coordinator who at all times had been an important linkage between the government and the United Nations, noting that Mr Rodriguez would forever be remembered for the many roles he had played during his tenure. Earlier on, the prime minister met with the South African High Commissioner in Tanzania, Thamasanqa Mseleku, who visited his office to bid him farewell after completing his time of services in the country. Mr Majaliwa expressed appreciation to the ambassador for being an important player in pioneering for various development activities such as economic, education, health and community development, as well as strengthening the existing relationship between the two countries. The VP observed that the country would continue executing programmes supported by the UN which includes the Five Years National Development Plan (FY2016, 2021 FYDP2). Ms Samia thanked Mr Rodriguez for the strong cooperation and relations built between the country and the UN during his time of service which had contributed to pushing the government’s agenda further. She wished him well in his new work station as the Resident Coordinator in Turkey. Mr Rodriguez also applauded the country for volunteering to present its Voluntary National Review (VNR) of progress on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on July 2019 highlighting on the successes, challenges and best practices