The Embassy of Switzerland and UN Women Tanzania recently signed a new agreement to support UN Women led project, Women’s leadership and Political Participation (WLPP), which ensures that women lead and participate in decision making at all levels. According to the UN Women Tanzania Representative, Ms Hodan Addou, the Embassy of Switzerland has provided funds to support WLPP that is also known as ‘Wanawake Wanaweza’ Phase II project that focuses on training of women towards expanding their pool of being qualified and capable leaders in positions. Speaking at the ceremony, Ms Addou emphasized the importance of supporting women’s greater participation in politics and leadership, and the greater benefits of women’s leadership in society. “When more women sit at a table, policies and budgets are more gender-responsive and resources are more allocated for education, health, community development, and the welfare of children and the elderly are prioritized,” she pointed out. Through the project, about 1,300 women across Tanzania will participate in training to boost their confidence and capacity to lead, and enhance their campaign strategies. The training will also strengthen their resource mobilization, and community mobilization skills, it was noted. The Ambassador of Switzerland to Tanzania and Zambia Tinguely Mattli, said that gender equality and women’s empowerment is an important priority for the Embassy to undertake in Tanzania. “We need to provide women with the skills to build their confidence that will enable them to vie for political leadership positions,” she said, adding: “I strongly believe that women hold the key to trigger the change we need, and to make progress towards sustainable development." “I am confident that this program will help women to gain confidence, speak out, take risks and take responsibility towardstransforming society at both the local and national level.” On her side, the Team Leader for the “Wanawake Wanaweza” project Ms Erasmina Massawe said although the representation of women in the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania currently stands at 36.8 and 37.2 percent in the Zanzibar House of Representatives; only 10 and 12 percent of women have been elected through in their Constituencies. “At the local level, only 5 percent of women have been elected as Councilors in Mainland Tanzania and 21 percent in Zanzibar.” “Several barriers exist and obstruct women from taking up leadership and political positions in Tanzania, including gender gaps in laws and policies. A patriarchal system, male dominated political institutions, including political parties; Lack of self-confidence among women that is further worsened by low levels of education and weak access to information,” said Ms Massawe.