IN any human society the birth of a child in a family is greeted with jubilations, happiness and love that is beyond measure. At times the parents are rewarded and visitors ranging from neighbours, relatives and friends go the extent of bringing gifts to such a family. As the baby grows up, the parents are tasked to provide for his/her upkeep, free him/her from physical, sexual and emotional abuse. In case the parent(s) role is to take care of their child’s biological needs, providing physical care in terms of proper food, fresh air, good lighting, enough sleep and recreation. To raise up a child properly, the duties aren’t limited to food, shelter and protection, but also require teaching and educating them, to shape their knowledge and character, and prepare them to face the real world. The list may be long backed up also by law as legal right, duty and power bestowed on such a parents to fulfill, because no such baby applied for his/her birth and hence must be catered. However, in some instances, the very people (adult parents), turn to be their abusers, which beg the question, where should therefore be the best refuge for them to live and grow up in this world? It is unfortunate that some parents be they biological, guardians and the like instead of performing their parental obligations, turn to neglect, verbally, psychological and emotionally abuse the children. However, one major hurdle to stopping child abuse is the difficulty of uncovering it. That’s why states have also enacted mandatory reporting requirements for social workers and other professionals. These laws apply primarily to people who have regular contact with children or who are most likely to discover abuse or neglect-such as teachers, doctors, nurses and social workers. To ensure that children are safe from home to school, market and shop, the public should unite as one body to be their responsible parent/ guardian. This should involve community leaders, clergy, the public and schools developing a culture to meet their needs towards nurturing them as future responsible citizens. Children should be taught strategies in programs to protect them including not keeping quite when abused in the society to discourage perpetrators. Equally, they should be encouraged to report any sign of abuse and neglect and in this case, report to any Police Station or confide to a close friend if one is finding it difficult to break the silence.
this