AS Tanzania has moved steps to control its mine resources and mineral business, the East African Community (EAC) countries are getting prepared for a major mining forum that would also bring in Central African countries. The forum to take place in Kigali, Rwanda in October is a high level conference and exhibition that will focus on a regional conglomerate, providing access to best practices, get insight on reliable cost effective technologies and fast-track financial support. Information reaching the ‘ Daily News’ from the East and Central Africa Mining Forum institute has it that the forum will look at junior mining operation and exploration – looking at establishing and extending the scope of their operations. On mining services it will look at operations and explorations companies to supply solutions and technologies, while on material handling and equipment it will be showcasing the latest solutions for mining operations. Key technologies, services and products will be presented. An official from the Forum, Mr Benjamin Weinheimer, said chambers of mines and ministries of mines are to share opportunities, best practices and strategies as well as pitch their industry to investors looking at Central and East Africa mining opportunities. “In order to manage common issues and challenges faced in the mining private arena and based on the existing Mining Industry Association of Southern Africa (MIASA), the key Chambers of Mines from the region will have an exclusive ‘rendezvous’ to incentivize greater collaboration between the private actors and suppliers of the mining industry in Tanzania, Rwanda,, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Democratic Republic of Congo and Madagascar,” he unveiled. There will also be an online business matchmaking platform to provide an opportunity for local companies to identify and partner with regional and international technology and service providers. “The online matchmaking platform offers the opportunity for attendees to conduct productive meetings at East Africa Mining Summit by scheduling one on one meeting ahead of the event and maximizing their time at the event,” he said. Artisanal and small scale mining workshops will be taking place during the meeting to run from October 28 to 29, offering the right skills and tools for the ASM sector that is crucial as they represent a significant part of the mineral and mining industry in the region. Scheduled also is an exclusive regional Chief Executive Officers (CEO) roundtable, with 10 to 15 key industry leaders to tackle challenges and opportunities in order to unlock the sector in Central and East Africa. The CEO roundtable follows Chatham House rules, with a close door engagement and dialogue with C-level representatives. The CEO roundtable model was initiated in Congo in 2015 and has been a success; gathering key CEOs from the mining houses and government representatives for an open and controversial dialogue. Tanzania, after construction of Mirerani Mines Perimeter and establishment of more than 37 mining centres countrywide to control haphazard minerals business in the country, now the government has moved to ensure that mining activities are done by those who hold valid permits and operate in the area only assigned to them.