TANZANIA Meteorological Authority (TMA), is committed to supporting the industrialisation agenda being advocated by the fifth phase government through the provision of accurate weather services that will facilitate high productivity and crop yield in the agricultural sector. TMA Director General, Dr Agnes Kijazi, made the commitment in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a workshop for consumers of climate services ahead of the national climate outlook for the October-November-December (OND) season. “Apart from issuing reports to boost agriculture and the preservation of water, our services are also crucial for issuing early warnings for bad weather such as protracted droughts, hurricanes and floods. “Through early warnings the government will be in a position to protect infrastructure such as bridges and roads against likely destruction,” Dr Kijazi, who is as well the third Vice-President of the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO), explained. The country’s top meteorologist pointed further that WMO laid more emphasis on weather agencies in member countries to work closely with other stakeholders in the dissemination and use of weather reports produced in the respective member countries. “TMA will continue engaging more stakeholders to ensure our reports and early warnings have impact on society,” she said. Speaking on the same occasion, TMA Advisory Board Chairman, Dr Buruhani Nyenzi, pointed out that the importance of accurate weather forecasts for supporting Tanzania’s industrialisation agenda towards the realisation of middle-income economy by 2025. “Stakeholders meet today as important partners of TMA and consumers and disseminators of weather forecasts,” Dr Nyenzi remarked. The workshop gathered participants from the government in sectors like agriculture, fisheries, livestock and water as well as players from the private sector, civil society organisations, the academia and the media. Earlier, Dr Kijazi urged participants during a separate workshop to utilise Weather and Climate Information Services for Africa (WISER) Programme, which aims at improving the creation and use of weather and climate information across sub Saharan Africa. Through support from the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DfID), the programme aims at enhancing the capacity of TMA in the provision of climate services in agriculture, energy, marine transport, disaster management and water sectors. In Tanzania, the three-year project, which ends next year, supports TMA, which works together with the UK Met Office, on multi hazard early warning services.