BUSINESSMAN Kassim Dewji admitted before a Dar es Salaam Court yesterday that Simba SC had received 300,000 US dollars from Tunisia’s Etoile du Sahel being proceeds of transfer fees for player Emmanuel Okwi. Dewji, who is Club’s board member, told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court that having received such sum they had agreed to spend part of the money to repay debt owed to the club and the rest be used for construction of a playing ground at Bunju area. He was giving evidence as eighth prosecution witness in the trial of Evance Aveva, the ex-Club’s Chairman, his Vice-chairman Geoffrey Nyange as well as Simba Registration Committee Chairman Zacharia Hans Poppe. Led by prosecuting attorney Leonard Swai from the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Dewji told the court that since the club had so much debt they agreed in the Executive Committee meeting that 17,000 US dollars be paid as loan repayment to Zacharia Hanspope. Dewji accounted that for the remaining funds, it was agreed that a special account called Bunju be opened where the amount would be deposited, thereafter to be used for construction of the club’s playing ground. He testified that after the agreement on the opening of the said special account, the implementation aspect was left to executives, including Aveva and one Amos, who was Acting Secretary and Treasurer of the club. “Your honour, these accused persons were the main supervisors of the process of opening the Bunju account. However after having the agreement, I did not attend any Executive Committee meeting as I was travelling regularly,” said Dewji. He testified that the money was to be deposited into the account for the construction of the playing ground, including the purchase of artificial turf and other amount to be used to pay the contractor. After such testimony, the magistrate adjourned the trial until September 4, 2019 for further hearing. Facts of the case show on March 12, 2016, the club was paid 319,212 US dollars by Etoile du Sahel for Okwi’s transfer fees. The amount was credited in Simba bank account held at CRDB Bank Plc Azikiwe Branch, where Aveva and Nyange were signatories. Upon credit of the amount, on March 15, 2016, a sum of 300,000 US dollars was transferred to Aveva’s personal account held at Barclays Bank. Such transfer was effected using transfer of fund request form dated March 15, 2016, which was submitted to CRDB Bank, Azikiwe Brach by Aveva. This form was signed by both (Aveva and Nyange). The payment details in the form were loan repayment,” reads part of the memorandum of facts. It was stated by the prosecution that such transfer of money had no authorisation from the club Executive Committee and that Simba SC had never borrowed the said money from Aveva. The prosecution further told the court that upon the credit of the amount into personal account of Aveva, who is the sole signatory, the money was withdrawn in cash in different lots by him. Out of the 300,000 US dollars, Aveva allegedly transferred 62,183 to Ninah Ghuanzhou Trading Company Limited as cost for purchasing artificial turf for the club’s playground at Bunju, Kinondoni Municipality in Dar es Salaam. According to the prosecution, 50,000 US dollars was paid to Lauwo, who is owner of Ranky Infrastructure and Engineering Limited as cost for the construction of the playing ground. It is alleged that Hans Poppe had hired the company to carry out the construction. Notwithstanding use of some money for the purchase of the artificial turf and engagement of the company, the prosecution alleges that Aveva and Nyange could not account for 187,817 US dollars which was credited in the account of Aveva. For the purpose of clearing the imported artificial turf from Dar es Salaam Port, the three accused persons made false invoice and it was submitted to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Such invoice shows that the value of the artificial turf was 40,577 US dollars.