ROAD crashes remain a thorn in the flesh for road safety stakeholders, despite concerted efforts to curb them. Though considerable progress has been made in reducing crashes, government drivers have remained a cause for concern as their ‘ untouchable status’ retrogresses the gains of bringing sanity to the country’s roads. It is against this backdrop that road safety stakeholders are calling upon the government to issue a circular, which provides guidelines on the safe use and operation of public vehicles in line with the country’s road traffic laws. They believe a written statement reiterating government policy, with information, guidance, rules and procedural matters regarding road traffic laws as applicable to public vehicle drivers, will make them behave responsibly on the road and thus reduce unnecessary road crashes, resultant injuries and fatalities. Road safety stakeholders argue that the presence of traffic laws and the Highway Code have done little to deter public drivers from misbehaving on roads and highways and crashes involving public vehicles have persistently resulted in loss of lives and properties. A lot more public servants and ordinary citizens suffer devastating injuries in sporadic crashes involving government vehicles and much of the blame is leveled against the drivers, who regularly pay no attention to safe driving rules, notably defensive driving. Road traffic accident data from the traffic police department showed that 37 people, including 20 public servants died while 90 others were injured in 10 road crashes involving government vehicles between January and November last year. “Some government drivers act like they’re above the law,” reveals Traffic Police Chief, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) F ortunatus Musilimu. He says government vehicle drivers often violate traffic rules and regulation, by driving at an unsafe speed, overtaking in dangerous locations and ignoring road signs. “Sometimes when they’re stopped by traffic police, they just flash headlights and do not stop. Sometimes that happens with a public leader on board. The outcome is crashes, we lose experts, we lose leaders and government assets are destroyed,” says SACP Musilimu. A number of reasons are given for the non compliance to safety laws and regulations by public vehicle drivers, among them; poor supervision, loopholes in enforcement, protection from their superiors who often entertain unruly behaviour by drivers and lack of proper defensive driving skills. “Some public leaders dare to bail out their drivers when they are issued with tickets and sometimes they even encourage them to speed up,” the Traffic Chief says. Head of Communication Unit at the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Ms Segolena F rancis says there is no driver policy across government institutions but the drivers are governed by Road Traffic laws and the Highway Code. “The Road Traffic Act [ CAP 168 R.E. 2002] establishes the Highway Code as the official guide to using our roads safely and efficiently,” she noted, adding that role of supervising the behaviour and act of drivers is on the hands of law enforcers. However, road safety stakeholders, citing examples from non government organizations and international organs such as the UN, argue that it is high time the government should consider making its drivers more responsible by issuing a driver policy. “The UN has got road and driving safety policy which addresses the appropriate use and operation of UN Agencies vehicles worldwide,” says the Coordinator for Violence and Injury Prevention - Road Safety, health systems cluster for WHO, Ms Mary Kessi. “The policy aims at ensuring road and driving safety, hereby promulgates the following measures aimed at improving awareness of and compliance with requirements and provisions for road and driving safety,” adds Ms Kessi. The UN strives to promote and assist drivers to enhance the safe operation of United Nations vehicles in order to reduce risks of road incidents to themselves, their colleagues and families and third parties. And, Ms Kessi says the government should contemplate adopting a similar approach to instill discipline and a sense of responsibility among the public vehicle drivers. “I understand there is a Highway Code established by the government in line with the Road Traffic Act, but reckless crashes still kill thousands of Tanzanians and leave many others disabled while inflicting massive social and economic consequences,” says Ms Kessi. “We would probably make drivers more compliant to safety rules if there will be a circular from the government that compels drivers to operate public vehicles in a safe manner and act responsibly on the road to prevent unnecessary crashes, injuries and property damage,” adds Ms Kessi. A head of drivers from one of the ministries concurs with Ms Kessi’s assertion. He suggests that a number of non government organizations have a driver policy, which govern their employees tasked with the operation of vehicles and the policy influence how their drivers act on the road. “It is true that some of us are reckless and enjoy breaching traffic rules, one can list a countless reasons behind the attitudes demonstrated by our fellow drivers; there is no single reason. “I think in order to address the problem there should be a control mechanism, influencing drivers’ behaviour shouldn’t be left on the hands of traffic police alone, there should be rules at working places that compel drivers to be more compliant to road safety rules and be made aware of the consequences of their actions when operating government cars, including losing their jobs in case of serious road offences,” he says. He says a circular will remind the drivers to stick to professional driving and avoid any temptation to violate road traffic rules and regulations, including unwarranted orders from their bosses. “Sometimes the bosses are in a rush to meet deadlines and would ask drivers to speed up, but most of these cars (Toyota Land Cruiser) are among the fastest cars and they encourage drivers to exceed speed limits,” he says. Chapter VIII of the UN Security Manual (2011) contains a whole section on road safety which directs UNvehicle drivers to comply with several safety measures for the purpose of avoiding crashes involving the operation of UN vehicles. The policy requires drivers to ensure that before beginning a journey, the mandatory “quick visual inspection” and walk around the vehicle to ensure that the tyres are properly inflated and that the brakes, signal lights and headlights are working properly. The policy prohibits the use of mobile phones or any other electronic devices while driving vehicles. “Talking, messaging and using electronic devices, such as hand-held or vehiclemounted radios and videos, while driving a vehicle are sources of distraction that necessarily prevent proper control and significantly increase the likelihood of an accident,” warns the UN policy. The policy strictly prohibits drivers from activities that would interfere with or distract them from exercising full control over a United Nations vehicle at all times, such as smoking or eating while driving. It also prohibits drivers from driving vehicles under the influence of substances as well as driving at inappropriate and excessive speed. According to the policy, drivers of United Nations vehicles are responsible for ensuring that all passengers comply with this requirement and shall not begin to travel until all passengers have their seat belts securely fastened. It concludes that failure to comply with the provisions warrant disciplinary proceedings against the staff concerned. Stakeholders are convinced that a government circular that would articulate safe driving guidelines to be followed by all drivers and supervisors when using public vehicles and private vehicles, understanding and complying with Road Traffic rules and regulations as well as the Highway Code could potentially end road crashes that haunt the country every now and then.