DAILY News 21st August 2019, provided a plea to exploit SADC chances by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof. Palamagamba Kabudi, on his routine consultation with Tanzanian ambassadors to foreign countries. Among issues asserted by Prof. Kabudi among others are, the low levels of intra SADC trade is the dearth of variation of diversification of export, which for the most part, the minister hinted on minerals, fuel and agricultural produces. Unlike the rest of overlapping economic regions existing in Africa as per UNCTAD secretariat, for example UEMOA consisting of Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d’voire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo; CIEMAC consist of Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, Chad, Congo and Gabon; UMA comprised of Algeria, Morocco, Mauritania and Tunisia; IGAD comprised of Somalia, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Sudan; ECCAS, IOC, EAC, ECOWAS and SACU comprises of Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, Namibia and South Africa; the SADC region market alone has 370 million people and a GDP of 607 billion US dollars. At any level, this market offers huge opportunities for investment and trading and if intra-trade amongst state members used, could transform into socioeconomic development. One of the tasks of the SADC was the economic integration of member countries. Such integration was perceived and continues to be one of the best means to attain development objectives and to address regional development agenda. Such a choice when compared to other groups hinted earlier is all the more significant that the economies of the SADC region which are still limited in size and fragile, have severe technical hitches in penetrating the markets of the countries of the member states due to trade barriers, especially non-tariff barriers i.e. standards, health and phytosanitary system, sponsorships, etc. The SADC group is at present composed of 16 member countries. Its main objectives continue to be: Eliminating customs duties on the intra- SADC trade along with taxes of similar effects, establishing workable ground for a common external tariff, harmonizing economic undertakings and financial policies, and creating a win-win economic trading zone. At present, SADC has freetrade area arrangement which, state members can supposedly trade without restrictions. Notwithstanding those arrangements, the truly intra-community trade has not taken off expeditiously, the reason also articulated by newly chairman of the SADC on his speech after being conferred his chairmanship. Why? Trade among SADC countries on the other hand, still suffers from the high cost of crossing borders, the lack of complementarity, weak connectivity and inadequate people-to-people or businesses to business links. What’s more, the asymmetry of the economies of the region, which in the past were more used to trade with other countries outside the region rather than amongst each other due to either colonial ties legacy or long-term signed contracts, will in my opinion impact the pace of stern trade integration undertaking amongst SADC state members. Under President Dr John Pombe Magufuli, with his visionary move to strengthen intra-trade by enhancing value addition and benefaction of raw material and stop exporting jobs from SADC member states to elsewhere, to be effective, there is a need to strengthen areas with ineffectiveness that limits swift intra-trade. In an effort to understand what will regenerate trade facilitation and trade participation between businesses and weather SADC businesses are different in accelerating their imports and export revealed that if solutions are found on simplifying processes, could increase intra-regional trade undertakings. SADC region is a businesses constituency where businesses face the greatest hurdles when it comes to crossborder transaction. Analysis using data from World Bank’s Enterprise Surveys conceals findings, that I believe, signals areas of stern perfection, because cross boarder engagements and processes, relative to their counterparts in the developing world, would respond to changes and enhance trade environment. Even though in general, it might be argued that African businesses tend to respond more to a changing environment, owed to the better constraints that they encounter, I am of the view that working on customs clearance, government code of practice, trade finance, and above all matching telecommunication infrastructure will indirectly underwrites or will increase the probability of businesses’ entry into exporting and importing, as well as to the extent of their trade. Data from World Bank’s enterprise surveys and data from the 2016 World Bank’s doing business analysis indicates that businesses in sub- Saharan Africa that include Sadc members run into far greater hurdles than any of their counterparts in the rest of the unindustrialised world when it comes to intra and international trade. In effect, the data point out that, it takes the average sub-Saharan Africa businesses 110.3 hours for instance on border compliance i.e. handling, clearance, and inspections and 98.0 hour for documentary compliance to export a shipment of 15 metric tons of export product. Talking of importing business values that could speed up intra-regional trade amongst SADC state members, these figures are respectively 97.8 percent and 45.4 percent higher than the matching times it takes a typical businesses elsewhere to export cargo to the market or internationally. Money-wise, the report indicates that border and documentary compliance costs respectively USD 552.6 and USD 245.8, which are 45.1 percent and 23.1 percent greater than comparable costs faced by typical developing country businesses. The facts tend to be much higher on the import side, where the report indicates that it takes more time between 125.1 and 165.3 hours and it costs more between USD 360.2 and USD 661.1 to import a shipment let say consisting of 15 metric tons of containerized parts for all economies. This amount is between 1.43 and 2.36 times larger than the costs in the rest of the developing world. All of these trade and business values are telling of the low quality of the trade practices, the large magnitude of the associated costs, and as a result, the low trade performance of businesses in the sub-continent as opposed to the outside world. Harnessing the trade potentials and exploiting SADC chances encouraged by Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof. Palamagamba Kabudi, will need novel means of facilitating businesses, trade and cross-border trading within SADC boarders. Speaking of import or export of business values that we must adopt entails trade easing that would help to increase the flows of goods across borders, and, in particular, simplification and harmonization of transnational trade procedures. In this context, the latter comprises the activities, practices and formalities involved in collecting, presenting, communicating, and processing data required for the movement of goods or trade. OECD Trade Policies Studies (2009), on overcoming border bottlenecks-the cost and benefits of trade facilitation, indicates that trade facilitation improvements are able to reduce trade costs, and can have the potential to create significant gains through greater trade participation and trade volumes of businesses, as well as an increase in national income. The study has valued that a saving in trade transaction costs by just 1 per cent as a result of trade simplification would create welfare gains that amount to 40 billion US dollars. If SADC leaders walk the talk, and now under Dr Magufuli, who always like to see things happening and his vision to deliver output, I trust member states, under his chairmanship will realize more benefits from intra-regional trade to be enhanced across members.