PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday told the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states to fortify unity and solidarity and maintain one voice in handling the block’s wider interests. Giving his speech during the closing session of the 39th SADC Summit in Dar es Salaam, President Magufuli who also chairs SADC said Tanzania was ready to cooperate with all SADC members to accelerate development efforts in the community. “Unity is an essential ingredient for development in any cooperation, to accelerate the pace of change within SADC, it is the responsibility of member states to utilise well available resources and put the focus on resolutions and agenda of our 39th summit to reflect the key issues of development,” he noted. President Magufuli said under his leadership, the community will continue to stand firm and strong together in defending the interests of member states, including sanctions against Zimbabwe, saying SADC leaders have requested the international community to lift sanctions against Zimbabwe for the country to move forward. “ We will ensure that our community tackles various challenges that hinder economic growth, including corruption and bureaucracy that impede industrial sector and trade between our countries,” noted President Magufuli. Expounding further, he said during the summit the leaders had discussions and aired their views, pieces of advice and contributions, with the signing of different protocols and strategies to accelerate development in the community. The SADC Chairman further said the slow pace of economic growth within the community can be tackled by promoting and strengthening infrastructure sector, with improved monetary policy to promote GDP growth in every member country. He also urged SADC Secretariat to spend funds for the intended purposes instead of directing them to organising conferences, workshops and numerous seminars. He directed implementation of projects that can bring benefits to member countries within the community. “In our 2019/2020 budget, we have planned to spend 74 million US dollars, the 43 million dollars from donors will be used to construct 17 trade facilitation centres, I will be happy to see one day the Secretariat inviting members at the inauguration of these facilities,” said President Magufuli. In another development, President Magufuli asked investors within SADC to come and invest in various projects in the country’s energy, mining, tourism, livestock and agriculture, saying Tanzania has an ideal environment for investors. Regarding the application of Burundi to join SADC, President Magufuli said the secretariat plans to send an investigation team in the country to ascertain basic and important issues before accepting it to join the community. SADC Executive Secretary Dr Stergomena Tax described the 39th SADC summit as highly successful, with high- level leaders from various member states attending. She said the leaders have worked out a number of strategies to accelerate economic growth and development of their countries.