YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera was left fuming, as his charges lost 2-0 to Polisi Tanzania in a warm up match at Moshi Co-operative University (MoCU) in Kilimanjaro yesterday. Yanga are in Northern Zone to shape up for the CAF Champions League, preliminary round, second leg clash against Botswana’s Township Rollers away at the Botswana National Stadium in Gaborone next weekend. Zahera had the reason to fume as the Mainland giants displayed a disjointed game at a fully packed venue. Former Simba and Majimaji attacker Marcel Kaheza struck a first half penalty, while Ditram Nchimbi netted the second in the second half to give Selemani Matola led side a perfect win against Yanga. A vividly disappointed Zahera openly criticised his players, saying that the match proved that it will be difficult for some players to break into the first team squad basing on the kind of display they showed yesterday. “It will certainly be difficult for some players to break into the first 11 team. I’m not pleased with the performance today,” Zahera said, while also insisting that he does not think the same team will play against Township Rollers next weekend. “Players should learn to take their chances whenever they are given opportunity to play…it is unfortunate that some players fail to show their quality,” complained Zahera. Zahera also lamented on the condition of the pitch, saying it made it difficult for his players to make swift movement of the ball. On his side Matola said he was pleased to win the match against Yanga. He said his squad showed strength and readiness to compete in the top flight football. Polisi Tanzania took the lead just after sixth minutes, when Kaheza converted a penalty, which was awarded to them after a defender handed the ball in an effort to clear the ball inside the box. In the match yesterday, Yanga rested some key players such as attackers, Patrick Sibomana, Ugandan Juma Balinya and Namibian Sadney Urikhob. Coach Zahera deployed Zambian striker Maybin Kalengo and Congolese attacker David Molinga with Deus Kaseke operating from the flanks but they fired blanks. Goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo and defender Juma Abdul were introduced in the second half, replacing Ramadhani Kabwili and Kelvin Yondani respectively. However, the changes did not help Yanga as they conceded the second in the 74th minute, when Nchimbi had the better of Jaffary Mohamed to chip past on rushing Shikalo. Zahera charges will play another warm up match against Kenya’s Premier League side AFC Leopards at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium in Arusha today. Yanga should be on their guard as their opponents— Township Rollers are carefully plotting the Jangwani Street lads’ downfall. Township Rollers Coach Tomas Trucha has commended his side for a creditable performance away against Yanga last weekend as he believes they can finish the job back home Trucha’s side played out to a 1-1 draw against Yanga in the preliminary round, first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Saturday and they just need to keep a clean sheet in the encounter to dump out Yanga. The aggregate winner of the tie between Yanga and Rollers will proceed to the next round to meet the winner between Green Mamba of Eswatini and Zesco United of Zambia. In the first leg tie held over the weekend, Zesco won 2-0 away at the Mavuso Sports Centre in Manzini, through goals from Ugandan forward Umaru Kasumba and Zambian marksman John Chigandu. The two sides will now play a return leg in Zambia for a chance to meet the winner of the Rollers- Yanga tie. Whoever would win that game in the next round would then progress to the lucrative group stage of the 2019-20 CAF Champions League. play another warm up match against Kenya’s Premier League side AFC Leopards at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium in Arusha today. Yanga should be on their guard as their opponents— Township Rollers are carefully plotting the Jangwani Street lads’ downfall. Township Rollers Coach Tomas Trucha has commended his side for a creditable performance away against Yanga last weekend as he believes they can finish the job back home Trucha’s side played out to a 1-1 draw against Yanga in the preliminary round, first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Saturday and they just need to keep a clean sheet in the encounter to dump out Yanga. The aggregate winner of the tie between Yanga and Rollers will proceed to the next round to meet the winner between Green Mamba of Eswatini and Zesco United of Zambia. In the first leg tie held over the weekend, Zesco won 2-0 away at the Mavuso Sports Centre in Manzini, through goals from Ugandan forward Umaru Kasumba and Zambian marksman John Chigandu. The two sides will now play a return leg in Zambia for a chance to meet the winner of the Rollers-Yanga tie. Whoever would win that game in the next round would then progress to the lucrative group stage of the 2019-20 CAF Champions League.