SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said their 3-1 victory over JKT Tanzania on Thursday showed that they are the best team in the country. The defending champions launched the 2019/2020 Vodacom Premier League (VPL) season positively after putting up an impressive performance at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam as they eye to claim the league title three times in a row. Lethal striker Meddie Kagere was on scoreboard twice on the day and the Ugandan born, Rwandan seems to have started from where he had left in the last season, when he emerged as the league’s top goal scorer with 23 goals. After bagging three points, the Msimbazi Street giants will be looking to post another victory as they point guns on their next opponent Mtibwa Sugar at the same venue on September 17th this year. Reflecting back after the triumph, Aussems said they have again showed that they are a team to beat and still the best in the country and will continue to dominate the top flight. “Prior to the game, I knew that it will be difficult mainly after the CAF Champions League elimination few days ago as such, I told the players to try to score as early as possible which they did,” he said. He added that after getting the opening goal, they played with confidence no wonder managed to increase the number of goals even though they had chances to hit five goals. “In the last 15 minutes, we played like school boys no wonder we conceded one goal something which was not acceptable for a professional team like ours,” said him. He then showered his praise on Kagere, saying he is the real striker who always smells the goal despite playing as lone striker upfront due to injuries sustained by his striking partners John Bocco and Wilker Da Silver. Asked to comment on the performance displayed by Brazilian players, who made their VPL debuts on the day, Aussems declined, saying everyone is free to make his or her own assessment. “For a long time, you have been questioning about the Brazilians potential and today (Thursday), you have seen them playing hence make your own assessment on them,” he said. On his part, the team’s midfielder Ibrahim Ajib who came in as a late substitute said he is looking forward to a good season and he is ready to help the club win trophies. “The game was good, we had a perfect match and I believe that our squad is well balanced to do wonders in the unfolding season,” Ajib said. Ajib, who emerged top with 15 assists last season is eager to replicate the feat this season perhaps even emerge as the top goal scorer of the league. On his part, JKT Tanzania Head Coach Abdallah Mohammed conceded the defeat and said they need to focus on their upcoming next match against. He further revealed that at half time, he told his charges to be strong defensively but that never worked out as they went on to concede more goals. “I cannot say that my team is weak since we fought hard according to our ability but in the end, our opponents were strong. We will come strong in the follow up fixture,” he uttered.