THE High Court has rejected the application by Bishop Mulilege Kameka who had wanted the Attorney General (AG) and Commissioner of Immigration Services jailed for refusing to release him from prison detention for allegedly being a non-citizen. Bishop Kameka of House of Prayers Shield of Faith Christina Fellowship Church, through his advocates John Malya and Ditto Amri had moved the High Court to convict the two respondents of contempt of court for violating the order issued on March 18, 2019 by Judge John Mgetta over his immediate release. In her ruling she delivered last week, however, Judge Atuganile Ngwala, allowed one ground of objection presented by state lawyers for the AG and Commissioner of Immigration, who are respondents in the matter, that the court was not properly moved to determine the application. The judge ruled that having gone through the application found that the ground raised by State Attorneys Jacqueline Nyantori, Tuli Hellela and Auton Chaula had merits and consequently “strike out” the application by the Bishop, the applicant. Dr Ngwala was of the view that if the applicant would wish to pursue the matter he should follow the procedures as outlined under section 9 of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA) by filing a formal complaint to allow the respondents to defend themselves. When advancing reasons to support the ground of objection, the state attorneys had pointed out that the Bishop cited sections 392A of the CPA and section 114 A (b) of Penal Code to move the court to determine his application. However, they said, section 114 is a penal provision which created offence. According to them, contempt of court is a criminal offence punishable by law, which needs the prosecution to prove the same beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore, they argued, the applicant ought to have invoked the provision of section 9 of the CPA to lodge a formal complaint. Such complaint, the state attorneys submitted, should have been channeled to either the police or court so that a formal charge is made for the prosecution to prove the claims at the required standard. Furthermore, they said, the applicant should have taken his matter to the subordinate court. They forcefully submitted that the High Court could have been approached to entertain the matter either by appeal or revision and not otherwise. The counsel of the state further explained that there were only two ways offences of contempt of court can be committed. The first way, they submitted, is the one committed in the eyes of the court and the decision could be taken by the adjudicator right away, while the other one outside the court, like what the applicant was alleging. The second one, they submitted, has to follow the procedure under section 9 of the CPA. Responding to the submissions, Advocate Malya had pointed at first place that the ground of objection raised is not a pure point of law as required by law that if determined could dispose off the matter summarily. He submitted that the point raised by the respondents has not any legal battle. He further told the court that in 2011, the Parliament made amendments under the CPA, introducing section 392A (b), which gives the procedure relating to contempt of court that the aggrieved party has to file an application with a supporting affidavit before the court which issued the order complained of. “That is what the applicant has done,” the advocate submitted, adding that it was a wrong approach as suggested by the respondents that the applicant should have invoked the provision of section 9 of the CPA, though it is true that section 114 of the Penal Code creates a criminal offence. He also submitted that his client decided to file the application before the same High Court, which issued the impugned order to show that the same has not been implemented. Therefore, he argued, the High Court has jurisdiction to entertain the matter and it has been properly moved. It is alleged that Bishop Kameka was arrested by the police in collaboration with immigration officers on January 17 , 2019 at his home at Bunju having been suspected to be a non-citizen and was taken to Central Police Station before being detained at Segerea Prison. According to the Church’s Secretary George Washington, having been detained for several days, the Bishop lawyers filed an application before the High Court to challenge his detention and deportation order given by immigration on December 29, 2018. In his March 18, 2019 ruling, Judge Mgetta noted that the respondents were not aware of the country’s origin of the applicant and, thus, saw no valid reasons for his detention and treating him like a non-citizen. The judge ordered the applicant to be set at liberty immediately, as his detention was illegal.