PUMA Energy has said it would take advantage of Tanzania chairing Southern African Development Community (SADC), to expand its footprint to remaining three member states out of sixteen. Puma, which operates in 13 countries of the SADC, said will leverage on Tanzania being one of strongest market in the bloc to tap the remaining three economies. Puma Energy Tanzania Managing Director, Dominic Dhanah said at the side-line of the SADC summit that the oil marketing company considers expanding its market to the rest of member states in the bloc. “We see this as opportunity to also expand our market to other three member states namely Madagascar, Seychelles and Mauritius,” Mr Dhanah said. The company said it was delighted after President John Magufuli took over chairmanship of the regional bloc. In Tanzania Puma business is supported by farm tanks that have storage capacity of 94,800cubic metres, five terminals, 5 2 retail sites and providing jet fuel and avgas to eight airports—including the largest Julius Nyerere International. The firm entered the Tanzania in September 2011 after acq uisition of BP’s operations. The key business focus on providing fuels, lubricants and other oil products to key clients in Tanzania’s burgeoning mining and transportation sectors. In SADC region, if storage capacity is anything to go by, Puma website shows that Angola is the largest stronghold with 473,200 cubic metres, followed by Mozambique 276,600, Namibia 130,600 and Tanzania at fourth slot. On the fifth position is DRC 42,100cubic metres, Zambia 24,900, seventh on list is Malawi 13,400 then South Africa 4,900 and Botswana 3,5 00. The tenth is Lesotho with storage capacity of 2,000 cubic metres, Swaziland 700 and Zimbabwe 500—the firm entered the market in 2013. Supply in Angola has benefited from the opening of the world’s largest Conventional Buoy Mooring (CBM) system in Luanda Bay. Puma Energy started its operations in South Africa in 2015 , with the acquisitions of Brent Oil and Drakensberg Oil. Puma Energy is a privately owned company owned by two strategic partners and main shareholders- Trafigura Group and Sonangol Holdings.