THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam has contributed 1.8bn/- to government revenue, following its orders given in four separate cases within seven days, involving minerals and foreign currency. Such cases involve Congolese Kelvis Nkoi, Egyptian Hany Ahmed and two Tanzanians, Mirajdin Tajdin and Haji Juma. The cases were heard by four magistrates - Principal Resident Magistrates Janeth Mtega and Thomas Simba, Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina and Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde. In the cases, the accused were convicted of the offences on their own plea of guilty to the charges against them by the prosecution led by Principal State Attorneys Shadrack Kimaro and Lilian Itemba, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon and State Attorney Estazia Wilson. The cases involving Nkoi, Tajdin and Ahmed related to the unauthorised possession of minerals, while that of Juma related to money laundering and failure to declare currency. Such offences were committed between April and July 2019 at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Ilala District in the city. It was alleged by the prosecution that Nkoi was found in unlawfully possession of minerals, which were 500gms of gold valued at 47m/-, while Tajdin was found in unlawful possession of 98.7gms of an unrefined gold bar worth 8,364,916/-. Ahmed was also found in unlawful possession of 11. 12 carats of diamond valued at 12,050,131/42, while Juma failure to declare $750,000 (over 1.5bn/-) he was found in possession of at JNIA. Having being convicted of the offences charged with, all accused were accordingly sentenced according to law. The court ordered Juma to pay a 100m/- fine or be jailed for three years. He paid the fine to escape the custodian sentence. Likewise, Tajdin was ordered to pay a 20m/- fine or be imprisoned for six months, while Ahmed was fined 5m/- or serve a custodian sentence of three years, whereas Nkoi was required to pay 3m/- in lieu of two years imprisonment. The trio decided to pay the fines to avoid their respective jail terms. In addition to the sentences provided, the court ordered the confiscation of the foreign currency and the minerals, thus making a total value of generated revenue to 1,825,000,000/-, thanks to the prosecution’s team for the job well done. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, who played a big role in the trial of the cases told the ‘Sunday News’ later that the properties, that is, $750,000, as well as the confiscated minerals were handed over to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) for safe preservation.