WITH pre-season done and dusted, Simba and Azam FC are set to embark on their new campaign for the 2019/20 season when they meet today evening in the Community Shield match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Both Simba, who are the Mainland champions and Azam, who are winners of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), will be seeking for their first silverware of the season. Today’s Shield match will usher in the 2019/2020 Mainland Premier League campaign. Initially, the match was to be staged at the Samora Stadium in Iringa Region but the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), made change of heart and switched the match venue to the National Stadium and it will kick off at 7pm. Good records of both teams gives the clash its deserved high status and fans would want to see how the squads of both sides fit for the tough local and international missions this season. Each camp has predicted a tough battle. Simba’s Head Coach Belgian, Patrick Aussems admitted that his side needs to be at their best to stand a chance of defeating their opponents; Having recruited a number of new players and definitely the game is going to be very tough for them. Aussems will be targeting to pick from where the team left off last season. Simba will be seeking to retain the Shield they won last season, after beating Mtibwa Sugar 2-1 at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. In fact, Simba will be looking for their third Shield on a trot. In 2017/2018 season, the Msimbazi Reds won the Shield after beating their traditional rivals Young Africans 5-4 on penalties at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. In run up to the Community Shield match today, coach Aussems will be looking to add more silverware accolades in his club’s shelves after guiding Simba to the league title last season, while Burundian Etienne Ndayiragije, will be eyeing for his first silverware as Azam boss. Simba have added key pieces to provide depth in their squad. The arrival of attacker Deo Kanda from Congolese side TP Mazembe, Kenyan midfielder Francis Kahata from Gor Mahia and Sudanese midfielder, Sharafeldin Shaiboub Ali from Al Hilal have so far proved to be instrumental in the team and they might be playing their first game with the local side after joining the Msimbazi street based side. However, Simba’s first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, attacking midfielder, Ibrahim Ajib and Brazilian striker, Wilker da Silva will miss the match today. The trio, who were on injury list, are back in the squad and have started light training but the club said they need time to return to full fitness. They are likely to be a major boost for Simba in CAF Champions League preliminary round, return leg against Mozambique’s UD Songo the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Simba were held to a barren draw away in Beira, Mozambique a week ago, in the first leg. On the other side their opponents Azam, who are back in the CAF Confederation Cup after missing the continental showpiece for couple of years, are looking to prove their capabilities as among the best sides in the country. Azam will be seeking to stun Simba, to send warning to other opponents ahead of the new season. Ndayiragije side whipped newly promoted topflight side Lindi’s Namungo FC 8-1 in warm up match at the Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. Simba have won Community Shield four times, while Azam won it once. Azam are going to exploit the Community Shield game to fine tune their squads to shape up for the CAF Confederation Cup, preliminary round, second leg clash against Ethiopia’s Fasil Ketema at Azam Chamazi Complex on Saturday. Azam lost 0-1 away against Fasil Ketema in the first leg a week ago. Both Simba and Azam need to win the second leg to advance in the next stage of their respective tournament.