SHE is excited seeing journalists visiting her home, about 15 minutes’ drive from Mtwara Town, Southern Region of Tanzania. This is Ms Asha Wemba (37), proudly leading her husband as they warmly welcome the scribes, after learning that they were coming to interview and document her success story on maternal health. In the course, she attentively wraps her one-month baby with fairly heavy cloth to protect her from cold, and thereafter smiles as she thanks other health officials in company who intervened in her baby’s malaria attack. Malaria infection during pregnancy is a major public health problem, with substantial risks for the mother, her fetus and the neonate. The disease can cause maternal and fetal anaemia, placental parasitaemia, low birth weight, and neonatal mortality. Equally, narrating what happened to her, Ms Wemba (37), a resident of Magomeni Chipuputa, in Mtwara Municipality, says in the past nine month she had a feeling that she was pregnant, but ignored to go for test. When she attended the clinic for the first time, nurses confirmed that she had a ninemonth pregnancy. The nurses immediately put her under malaria treatment and thereafter gave her the Intermittent Preventive Treatment of malaria in pregnancy (IPTp), dose to prevent her from contacting malaria again. Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy is a full therapeutic course of antimalarial medicine given to pregnant women at routine antenatal care visits, regardless of whether the recipient is infected with malaria or not. The World Health Organization (WHO), recommends IPTp with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP), in all areas with moderate to high malaria transmission in Africa. "After getting the medicine I started feeling well. Before that I never used such medicine," she admits, adding: “I have only been hearing about the malaria prevention in pregnancy medicines from radio station programmes." When she went for pregnancy test on 13th June this year the nurses educated her over importance of using the malaria drugs and two weeks later, she gave birth to a baby boy. “I thank the health workers and I am happy because my baby has been born healthy, I call upon my fellow women to attend clinic, and I also thank them for giving me the medicines,” she says. She advises her fellow mothers to go to clinic early because failure to start the drugs at a right time, may put them and their unborn babies at risk. Her husband, Mr Hamid Lihaji, says though his wife had a late first visit to clinic, it was luck that his wife got a single dose of the IPTp. Community Health Worker, Ms Ester Mpinyi, who doubles as an attendant at Ufukoni Dispensary, says Ms Wemba is her neighbor, and she had to convince her to go to clinic. Ms Mpinyi is among health workers in Mtwara Region who have gone through training under the ‘USAID Boresha Afya’ project. “Being neighbours we have been greeting each other but I did not know that she was not attending clinic, until I asked her,” Ms Mpinyi narrates. Upon knowing that she was not attending clinic she started educating her why she should have started visiting the clinic regularly. “In the first place she refused to go to clinic, But I sat with her and tried to convince her until she accepted my advice,” she explains. The next day, Ms Mpinyi went with her to the clinic at Ufukoni Dispensary and explained to health staff over her case. Mtwara Regional Medical Officer, Dr Silvia Mamkwe notes that malaria is still a challenge in the region, because the prevalence is at 14.8 per cent, which is almost two times national average. "So we still have an uphill task to cut the number down," she states. She explains that one of the factors is climate that encourages the mosquito to grow, including forests and water ponds. "But I thank the government for bringing enough pesticides that we will use to fumigate to kill the mosquitoes," she says. The region now focuses on insisting early visit to clinic. This has been successful through using the community health workers. Dr Faustine Rwegobora, Mtwara Regional Malaria Adviser for USAID Boresha Afya project, says the project embarked on interventions particularly on awareness campaigns and facilitating the Health Centres to conduct their operations. He explains that the interventions were upon realizing that majority of mothers in Mtwara Region start visiting clinics while already late. "We started sensitization to encourage mothers go to clinic early," he says, adding:“We have component of malaria in pregnancy, so we have trained health care workers on modalities of handling malaria in pregnant women,” Currently, the IPTp two stage uptake that is a criteria to reach IPTp three is around 91.2 per cent of pregnant women in the region and this has led to increase of uptake of IPTp three to 84.3 per cent. In 2016, the IPTp three was only 4.8 per cent because there was late booking. Commenting, Lilian Mlaponi, Malaria focal person for Mtwara Municipality, says services for prevention of malaria has been successful with statistics showing that the prevalence of the disease has deceased drastically in the past three years.