TANZANIA envisages a pool of Kiswahili experts to teach the language in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member countries. Information, Culture and Sports Minister Dr Harrison Mwakyembe told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the National Kiswahili Council, BAKITA, is currently coordinating registration of Kiswahili experts in the country to identify them. “The registration will enable us to know the number of experts we have against demand in the SADC countries that need them to teach the language,” Dr Mwakyembe stated. He said so far at least 1,200 Kiswahili specialists have been identified and registered. He called on Tanzanians who studied Kiswahili in colleges or universities to tap the opportunity in the regional bloc. The minister’s statement follows the new SADC Chairman, President John Magufuli’s announcement yesterday that Kiswahili becomes the fourth official language in SADC. Dr Magufuli, in his closing speech to the 39th SADC Summit in the city yesterday, said SADC members have officially adopted Kiswahili as their fourth language. “Tanzania’s founding father, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere played a big role in liberating various countries in this continent, many freedom fighters were trained here and Kiswahili was their major language of communication,” said President Magufuli. He cited South Africa as one of the countries that have positively responded to the move, determined to start teaching Kiswahili in its schools next year. “Tanzania is ready to support South Africa in its initiative to learn Kiswahili,” he said. President Magufuli said accepting Kiswahili as the official SADC language means a lot to Tanzania and is a big honour to Mwalimu Nyerere. The Head of State said Mwalimu Nyerere spent his time and country’s resources to support other African countries during their struggles against colonialists. He said areas like Kongwa, Nachingweha, Bagamoyo, Mgagao, Mazimbu, Dakawa and others were allocated for training of freedom fighters. He added that in 1975, the Tanzania People Defence Forces (TPDF) ended the coup’detat in Seychelles. “Tanzania has been participating in various missions in Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo and many others,” he said, noting that Mwalimu Nyerere remains an icon of peace, unity and freedom in Africa. Evaluating the SADC Summit, the new chairman described the meeting as good with a number of achievements recorded. He said the heads of state and government had agreed to improve infrastructure in their respective countries to boost the region’s economy. “We have agreed to improve our infrastructure to support our economies,” he noted, adding that the move will also help the region to speed up the SADC industrialisation drive. President Magufuli reminded the SADC secretariat to make good use of fund, which the member states contribute. “I would like to ask the SADC secretariat to always make good use of fund, we get this money from poor countries, therefore do not spend it on seminars and workshops…use the money for development of the region,” he directed. Earlier, commenting on the country’s preparedness for Kiswahili to SADC block, Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister and Chairman of SADC Council of Ministers Professor Palamagamba Kabudi told reporters that Tanzania had already invested a lot to ensure the language excels in the region. “We have already done a good job to ensure the language is adopted as an official medium of communication in the SADC region,” he said. He said Kiswahili is the 10th most spoken language in the world, with at least six SADC countries using it. According to Professor Kabudi, at least 53 universities worldwide teach Kiswahili at PhD level. Education, Science and Technology Minister Professor Joyce Ndalichako on Friday told South African President Cyril Ramaphosa at Mazimbu in Morogoro that Tanzania is ready to deploy Kiswahili teachers and other teaching aids to South Africa.