YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said they plan to host a Ligue 1 team in another friendly match before facing Township Rollers in CAF Champions League. Yanga survived a scare from Kariobangi Sharks of Kenya in their first major friendly match on Sunday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam after forcing a 1-1 draw. Played in a fully packed 6 0,000 capacity venue, Yanga had all the reasons to emerge winners at the end of the game if they had converted all their golden chances they created. However, speaking after the end of highly entertaining match, Zahera said he was fully delighted with the output from his charges, insisting that they need to play another friendly games before CAF Champions League mission. “It was a good game altogether but let me take this chance to say that we will take on a team from France which plays in L igue 1 to give us another friendly tie ahead of Township Rollers duel,” he said. Adding, commenting on the entire match, Zahera labelled his club as a transformed team ready to do wonders in their upcoming major competitions. “I am happy with the way my boys played even though there are some challenges which emerged following different reporting time at the camp by some players,” said he. He further said the current squad has no player who just walks on the pitch as everybody is busy looking for the ball unlike in the past season. “Now, I have the speed I wanted from the players. When the ball starts, you can see determination of the players that they want to go all the way to the opponents’ goal and this is exactly what I have been searching for,” he said. He then congratulated Yanga fans who embraced the game in their big numbers urging them to continue doing so in other approaching matches. His skipper Papy Tshishimbi said they wanted to win the match but a draw is just part of the game. “We played well throughout the game, had good chances to score only that could not manage to do that. It is a good start for us prior to the busy schedule coming up,” he said. Asked whether he has pressure to be handled the team’s captain armband, Tshishimbi replied that he has no pressure at all and that he will do what it takes to execute well his responsibilities for the prosperity of the club. The game was played to climax the club’s ‘Wiki ya Mwananchi’ campaign which saw its members undertaking various social activities in different parts of the country like cleaning and blood donations.