YOUNG Africans yesterday confirmed that new recruits Farouk Shikalo, Mustapha Suleiman and David Molinga will again miss the CAF Champions League (CAF CL), match against Township Rollers on Saturday for failure to secure their license. The trio did not play in the preliminary round, first leg battle held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on August 10th this year, which ended 1-1 as their respective licenses were not yet released. Yanga desperately need a victory to sail through into the next level of the contest, bearing in mind that a scoreless draw will be enough for the hosts (Township Rollers), to jump into the next round. Elaborating on this development was the club’s Acting General Secretary, Dismas Ten, who said the three players have not traveled with the squad ahead of the crucial mission at the Botswana National Stadium in Gaborone. “It is true that Shikalo, Suleiman and Molinga will not be part of the upcoming match because of delays by the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) to release their licenses and also, their International Transfer Certificates (ITC), came late from their past clubs,” he said. However, Ten disclosed that CAF has given them green light to use Shikalo in the next match of CAF CL should they manage to see off Township Rollers, whereas Suleiman and Molinga could be used in the competition’s group stage clashes. “As of now, we are just praying to win over Township Rollers so that we can proceed into the next stage and start using the three foreign players,” said him. In a related development, Ten reiterated that the team’s camp pitched in Moshi and Arusha prior to the trip to Bo- tswana was very successful, insisting that they have learnt many things. His sentiments came as a response to Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera who repeatedly blamed the set up of the camp as he said they learned nothing ahead of their Botswana mis- sion. “To say the truth, the camp we conducted in Moshi and Arusha was tactically arranged so as to enable players adjust to the cold climate, which they ex- pect to experience in Botswana and as a team, they (players), have gained a lot,” he said. He added that immediately after facing Township Rollers, the team’s technical bench agreed to have two build up matches before the reverse leg that is why they opted to take on Polisi Tanzania FC and AFC Leopards respectively. “It was mutually agreed to face the two teams in friendlies due to their location and for the case of AFC Leopards, it was easy for them to come to Arusha from Nairobi for the game,” Ten said. He further said they were much concerned with how players played and not necessarily on the nature of the pitches they were subjected to. “It is impossible to say that the team learnt nothing from the two friendly games perhaps the coach said that out of pressure but the bottom line here is that we have gained something important before the clash against Rollers,” said Ten. At a post friendly match interview over AFC Leopards, Zahera attacked the two pitches Ushirika ground and Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium they played at insisting that they failed to get the required pattern to be used against Township Rollers and he labeled their 1-0 win over AFC Leopards as just a good luck. “The match against Town- ship Rollers is of national interest such that you cannot prepare well using this type of pitch. I told the players to just kick the ball upfront since it was difficult to play according to plans,” he said.