THERE will be an open ‘Bicycle Racing Competition,’ taking place in Arusha on the 14th of September 2019 and organisers here say the event will cover 80 kilometres of serious weekend pedalling. Organised by the Rexlex Cycling Company, in association with the Arusha Cycling Club (ACC), the cycling race will cover 80 kilometres going northward along the main Arusha-Namanga road. For the women category the cyclists will cover 60km distance on the same Arusha-Namanga road. The organisers said there would be also a fun race for other people who would simply like to participate for recreational purposes and this will cover only 30 kilometres. The event’s coordinator, Joel Senny said the preparations are going on well and that participation forms are being issued from various outlets in Arusha City. “The Motto for the Arusha Cycling Competition is ‘Bicycle offers employment and helps to maintain health,” stated Senny saying the 30 kilometres segment is simply targeting people who like exercises. He revealed that the top prize for the overall winner will be 500,000/- in the male category. The second winner in the main 80 kilometres category is going to get 300,000/- and the third 200,000/-. Top women racers on the other hand will earn 150,000/- for the winner and 100,000/- for the first runner-up to finish in the 60 kilometres while the third gets 50,000/-. Aged people in the race will also earn the same amounts for the first second and third winners respectively. Speaking on the event, chairperson of Arusha Cycling Club Mosses Laizer said they expect at least 80 participants from various regions of Tanzania to compete in the race. “Arusha is facing shortage of cycling events due to lack of sponsors and supporters, despite the fact that Arusha has the best riders in the country,” pointed out Laizer. Habiba Mathias is one of the lady riders who intend to participate in the competition; “When it comes to cycling, very few women ever bother, believing that the sport is strictly for men, which is a wrong concept,” she said