Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR), is a major Public Health issue in Tanzania. MMR refers to the death of a mother while she is pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy. Irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, due to any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management, with the exception of accidental or incidental causes. Government data indicates that at the moment the MMR for Tanzania stands at a staggering 556 deaths per 100,000 live births. This is equivalent to the loss of anywhere from 8,000 up to 15,000 women a year due simply to the fact that they are pregnant. This represents a huge loss for the nation. It is clear that child marriage is one of the significant contributing factors to this high MMR. Some 11 percent of all marriages qualify as child marriages. This means that one major public health problem (child marriage), is leading to another public health problem (high maternal mortality rates), under our watch! As a Public Health Specialist, I’m overwhelmed by the loss of life of innocent women and girls simply because they are pregnant. I see child marriage in Tanzania as condemning female children to walk through the valley of shadow of death in our society. The 11 percent of all marriages that are child marriages significantly contributes to thousands of girls’ injuries or deaths that result from abuse or complications in pregnancy and childbirth. I’m sure many readers would be unaware of this public health travesty in our midst and that many, when confronted with these facts will, as I do, find this an intolerable situation that demands swift and decisive action. The results from many scientific studies in Tanzania show that maternal age and socio economic status are statistically significant risk factors for maternal mortality in this country. It is well documented that the risk of maternal mortality death from factorsfactors such as complications in pregnancy and childbirth are unacceptably high. The medical evidence clearly indicates that any marriage when the female is below the age of 18 years, before she is physically, physiologically and psychologically ready to shoulder the responsibilities of marriage and childbearing, is likely to end up with maternal or infant death. Motherhood is challenging for any woman; when a mother, who is barely more than a child herself,gives birth to a new born baby, the risk of both dying is very likely and very real. Such young mothers simply do not possess the experience and knowledge to properly care for either themselves or their babies. In Tanzania, some religious beliefs allow girls to marry at 12 years of age, as long as the marriage is not consummated until the girl reaches the age of 15. I believe this is alarming and should not be permitted to continue under any circumstances, whether it is a religious or cultural belief. The question is then, ‘How can we eliminate child, early, and forced marriage by 2030 in line with target 5.3 of the Sustainable Development Goals’? Tanzania has committed to achieve the goal, but how? As a society, we cannot achieve it by merely saying, or by writing, that it is our aspiration, but rather by taking concrete action, including changing our laws to reflect the modern century in which we are living. There is overwhelming evidence in our society that allowing child marriage generally means the female will be separated from her family and friends and transferred, as if she was a piece of property, to her husband. Virtually, in an instant, she will be expected to become a woman who keeps house and raises a family, and in so becoming, will be denied the opportunities for healthy maturation and study that should be her birthright. Evidence suggests that girls married early are more likely to experience violence, abuse, forced sexual relations, higher risk of dying from pregnancy and childbirth complications and increased risk of contracting infectious diseases such as HIV. Not only is child marriage damaging from a societal and public health point of view, but it is also hurting our economy. It adversely impacts on economic development and leads to a cycle of poverty between generations. In short, early child marriage seriously harms the development and wellbeing of girls, through limited education and employment opportunities, social isolation, domestic violence and rape, each of which also acts as a brake on our future prosperity. Tanzania is signatory to the Convention of the Rights of the Child. In signing the Convention, Tanzania committed to take “all effective and appropriate measures with a view to abolish traditional practices prejudicial to the health of the children”, which definitely includes child marriage, among other practices such as female genital mutilation/ cutting. Article by Dr Joseph Masika OAM Public Health Consultant specialized in Child Protection, Child Marriage and Domestic violence against Women.