AS curtain rolls open tomorrow to usher in the 2019/2020 Mainland Premier League season, Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), has insisted that they will not alter the fixtures. TPLB Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Boniface Wambura made clarification after Young Africans had written them to have their league opener clash set on Wednesday next week rescheduled. Yanga face Ruvu Shooting on Wednesday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam just four days after their away CAF Champions League, preliminary round second leg against Township Rollers slated tomorrow in Gaborone, Botswana. Wambura insisted that TPBL will not entertain any fixture changes as they want to avoid complications that happened last season, whereby the league fixture was frequently re-drafted. “It is true that we received a letter from Yanga, requesting their first league match rescheduled on condition that they are likely to return back late from Botswana”. “We have not granted the request because the board released the 2019/20 schedule way back such that it was their (Yanga) responsibility to adapt to it and see how best they can handle it to suit both their Premier League and CAF CL matches,” said Wambura. He added that in their letter, Yanga claimed that they will arrive back home on August 26 (Monday), from Botswana, meaning that they will only have one day of recover before taking on Ruvu Shooting, something he said was the main focus of the letter. Five venues across the country will be busy tomorrow from 4:00pm hosting the first batch of the premier league games with Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya being the center of attraction, staging the first derby of the season whereby Mbeya City will go head to head against Tanzania Prisons. Debutants Polisi Tanzania will feel the taste of the top flight league as they play host to Coastal Union of Tanga at the Moshi Co-operative University (MoCU), Stadium in Moshi. The former will have to prove how good they are prepared after making headlines following their 2-0 triumph over Yanga in a friendly match played recently. Other new comers in the league Namungo FC will be at the Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi entertaining Ndanda FC, while Biashara United will tussle up against Kagera Sugar at Karume Stadium in Musoma. CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza will be on fire as Mbao FC lock horns with Alliance FC in a sparkling derby from the Rock city. On Sunday, two games will be played whereby Lipuli FC will take on Mtibwa Sugar at Samora Stadium in Iringa, while Mwadui FC will confront Singida United respectively at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. On Monday, one match will take place involving KMC against Azam FC at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam.