NATIONAL team interim Coach Etienne Ndairagije has beefed up his squad ahead of the decisive match against Kenya’s Harambee Stars this weekend at Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya. The two neighboring countries face-off in the second leg tie of the 2020 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN), qualifiers after the first game ended all square at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. And with the encounter just around the corner, the Burundian tactician Ndairagije has called up defenders Haruna Shamte and Oscar Masai and goalkeeper Mohammed Yusuf to replace goalkeeper Aishi Manula, defender David Mwantika and midfielder Ibrahim Ajib who are still nursing injuries. Attacking midfielder Ajib picked a knock during the first leg match, while Manula and Mwantika did not feature in the match due to injuries picked during training session. Coach Ndayiragije said Manula, Mwantika and Ajib will not make the trip to Kenya because the team’s doctor has recommended that the players given more than two weeks break to fully recover. “It is not that big blow for us because we have some players who will fill the vacuum. This is a national team hence open to Tanzanians who are ready to fight for their country,” he said. Ndayiragije is plotting the downfall of their hosts and it will be another opportunity for Taifa Stars to revive hopes of sailing into the next stage of the competition knowing that any draw involving goals will be enough for them to reach the next round. Ndayiragije reiterated that his side has big advantage to win, saying that holding Harambee Stars to a goalless draw at home (Dar es Salaam), is a big advantage for his team ahead of the return battle. “The fact that we never conceded a goal has a big value to us because during the next match, it will be them playing with pressure not to allow a goal from us meaning that they will approach the game defensively while for us, we will open up to at least score a crucial away goal,” he said. He added that the overall performance from his lads during the past match was convincing despite the fact that the squad trained for a short period and that some players were making their debut in the national team colours. “We were pleased to see fighting spirit from the players and they really showed that they have that hunger to lift high their team and we expect to see another great football display from them in Kenya,” he said. Defender Erasto Nyoni said Taifa Stars must act like “soldiers defending the honour of the country. “Tanzanians love the national football team and this must motivate us to do even better than in the first leg,” he said. Reports from Kenya had it that the football federation have decided to slash ticket prices up to 80 per cent in the hope that a huge crowd will turn up and cheer Harambee Stars to victory over Taifa Stars in this weekend CHAN qualifier. “We dropped the ticket price in the belief that supporters will come in large numbers and back the national team,” unveiled the Kenyan football chief Nick Mwenda. He added that Harambee Stars will have a very good chance of reaching the final qualifying round and a huge crowd will be a major motivating factor. Admittance to all sections of the 60,000-capacity Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi for the much anticipated East African derby has been reduced to 100 K-shillings. Ordinarily; some tickets would cost 500 K-shillings for an international fixture in a country where there is a minimum 50 K-shillings charge for domestic matches.