TANGANYIKA Packers ground in Kawe, Dar es Salaam, has been handpicked to stage the Super Special Stage of Oryx Rally of Tanzania on September 13th this year. The Super Special Stage, according to the event’s director Satinder Birdi will serve as a qualifying drivers for crews to compete on the main event on September 14th and 15th . Adding, Birdi said after the opening event at Kawe, cars will head to Highland Estate, U bena for the leg one stage on Saturday, September 14 and the 2nd on Sunday. After the end of the second leg there will be a Podium Ceremony at the Highland Estate, U bena where winners will be awarded. The main event, according to Birdi will cover most a part of the slave caravan route inside the Highland Estate, Ubena and will be main battlefield of this year’s Oryx Rally of Tanzania. The two-day Oryx Rally, is the Tanzanian round of African Rally Championship (ARC), that usually draws top drivers and navigators from all over the continent. The event’s director Satinder Birdi said preparation has been going on steadily ahead of the wheeling showdown on September 13th. According to Birdi, Oryx Energies of Tanzania is the title sponsor while Southern Sun Hotel, Highland Estate U bena and Knight Support have joined as associate sponsors. Also serving as the sixth round of the continental class rally, Oryx Rally of Tanzania, pits local drivers against the continental class drivers. The crews coming in pairs of drivers and navigators will represent five countries in the rally, according to Birdi. With safety taking the leading role, Birdi said the rally will stage most of its actions at Highland Estate U bena and Lugoba, about 120 kilometres west of the commercial capital, Dar es Salaam. “ The dusty roads around the areas are safe for both drivers and spectators due to low traffic,” added Birdi. Safety of crews and spectators was the most serious agenda in motorsports as both the event’s director, Birdi and the President of the motorsports governing body (AAT), Nizar Jivani have issued warning to the drivers and spectators against violating safety measures in all sections of the two-day rally. “We have been staging safe rallies for over 16 years since becoming affiliated members of the world motorsports governing body (FIA)”. The foreign crews come from Kenya, U ganda, Zambia, Rwanda and Scotland. Kenyan crews; Manvir Baryan and his Scottish navigator, Drew Sturrock will be the first off ramp in ultramodern car Scoda Fabia.