THE government is working on the final improvement of the 20-year-old criminal justice system with the one that will cope with trend changes and techniques that offer a level playing ground in the criminal justice system in the country. After the endorsement of the review the government will come up with a five-year plan that will ensure smooth and effective arrangement that addresses current challenges. Opening a meeting that brought together ministers, permanent secretaries and executives of the institutions that deals with the criminal justice, Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga (pictured), said the existing one did not cope with trend changes, thus it needed to be updated. Dr Mahiga said the process started at various levels in July this year to improve the criminal justice system to make it conducive and user - friendly and at the same time contain criminal incidents. “Various sectors as well as stakeholders have for the past three months been working on current criminal justice system documents to address the challenges that in one way or another have been a stumbling-block to criminal justice. Today we are finalising it at ministerial and executive level by going through the document and give recommendations before a final document is tabled,” said the minister. He said the administration of criminal justice was a chain, which involved a number of stakeholders at different levels, thus, they wanted to have in place the one that would guarantee smooth operation and contain crime. “The criminal justice chain entails different stages of criminal control, identifying suspects, investigations and prosecution, penalties and reform measures of the prisoners after serving their jail terms. There is a need for the review since the current one was amended 20 years ago,” said Dr Mahiga. The minister noted that a lot had been happening in terms of techniques of crimes, thus there was need for an effective criminal justice system that matched the current time. Moreover, he added, even institutions, which were before responsible for the criminal justice system, had also designed different tasks.