PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa (pictured) has directed all banks operating in cotton farming regions in the county to remain open today to serve traders, who are in a process to get loans to purchase cotton from farmers. The Premier made the call yesterday when he held talks with regional commissioners from eight cotton growing regions, the Director General of the Tanzania Cotton Board (TCB) and CRDB Bank Managing Director. The regions include Mara, Mwanza, Simiyu, Geita, Kagera, Shinyanga, Singida and Tabora. “The move will help buyers finalise all paper work tomorrow (today) and obtain money on Monday for them to start purchasing cotton immediately,” said Mr Majaliwa. He referred to a meeting held on Friday with the Bank of Tanzania (BoT), cotton buyers and bank owners, which agreed to start furnishing buyers with loans to begin purchasing cotton tomorrow. The PM also directed that payment for cotton, which had already been gathered, should be done first to pave the way for the procurement of newly harvested cotton in storage facilities. He also directed the chairman of Cotton Buyers, Mr Christopher Gachuma, to make a close follow-up of the process to keep track of procured cotton and their sellers. Mr Majaliwa further directed experts from the Ministry of Agriculture to collaborate with TCB and Agricultural Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOS), among other bodies, to coordinate the buying exercise by ensuring every individual or company was being paid. In light of this, Mr Majaliwa called upon the business community and buyers to come up with a permanent plan, including the establishment of local manufacturing industries to address the challenge. “By doing so factories will be able to process cotton from within the country and produce clothes, cotton fibres and others…I believe the market problem is going to be a thing of the past,” noted the PM. The chairperson of bank owners, Mr Abdulmajjid Nsekela, promised to cooperate with all buyers in all regions by ensuring that they accessed loans by tomorrow. The Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga urged buyers, who were going to purchase cotton in districts such as Meatu, Igunga and Singida to be careful with ginneries.