MADAGASCAR became the last team to exit the quarter final stage of the Africa Cup of Nations 2019 in Egypt after suffering a humbling 3-0 defeat to Tunisia in Al Salam. The Berea, who entered the cup finals for the very first time in the history of the competition, added to the shocks, upsets and surprises which have largely characterized this 32nd edition of biennial continental tourney. Despite their elimination, Madagascar can still walk with their heads high, not because of their historic qualification to Afcon, but for their resilience which defied establishment to reach the quarters; A stage predominantly reserved for football giants and powerhouses usually from west and north Africa. This fete, in my view, took more character than it did technical edge to achieve. It was self-belief for instance, that propelled The Berea to a convincing 2-0 victory over seasoned World Cup contenders and continental favorites, Nigeria. I t is self confidence that catapulted Madagascar to this stage of honour until their elimination. But what exactly would one say about East African teams of Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Burundi? Are there lessons to take home after their unique and historic qualification to the Afcon and eventual elimination, or do we spend the rest of the year celebrating a milestone that has been elusive for ages? That East Africa earned four slots in the ongoing football extravaganza in Egypt is historic, is undoubted. It is the first time that the region registered the highest representation to Afcon, with Burundi making a name for themselves for securing their first ever chance to participate in the tournament just like their Madagascar counterparts. Uganda returned after two years having bowed out of group stage in 2017, while Kenya and Tanzania returned after fifteen and thirty nine years respectively. While this milestone is laudable, focus should shift immediately from mere celebration to actual consolidation and implementation of lessons learnt from the experience. There should not be an excuse for Burundi for instance, to stop at their debut and claim that inexperience cost their survival in the competition. Madagascar made it to the quarters from a similar background. Tanzania cannot blame their early exit on the coach, so can’t Kenya. For the two sides, I believe, it was the inspiration from their managers that saw them book these much coveted spots. Both sides spiritedly fought out their qualifications inspired by the confidence their managers bestowed in them. But where did the inspiration go when it mattered the most? So, largely the buck stops with the players. One could buy the narrative of motivation or the lack of it in the case of defending champions Cameroon to justify their short stint in the competition, after a stalemate with their federation over unpaid allowances ensued. However, for Kenya and Tanzania , this was a story of the past. Instead of firing Amunike, TFF should have kept him for the Chan tournament to develop on his blueprint that inspired Taifa Stars to the glory of Afcon after over three decades of trying. I hope Kenya gives Migne more space to prove that he did not ride in the disqualification of Sierra Leone. That said, players themselves should be envious of their contemporaries who excel at these stages and replicate it in their national teams. They should have a burning desire to shine and shoulder their country. Such an inspired unit will play like The Bereas did. They will rise like South Africa did above Egypt. Important lessons should also be picked by respective federations to stop meddling in team selection and make the playing unit a reserve of the head coach who formulates and implements own philosophy for the game