ONCE again, the nation has been struck. The last week fuel tanker disaster in Morogoro is yet another painful experience to Tanzanians and the world. Unfortunately it has also resulted into substantial loss of life, assets and production. A week after the disaster, much is still being talked and I am glad a number of fellow Tanzanians, from all walks of life, are currently in Mororgoro extensively participating in the management and response to the emergencies’ post activities. We wish them success in this busy management of the consequences of this sad event. We also thank them for the ongoing faithful work of ensuring that coping abilities among affected wananchi are sustained through their ongoing initiatives. Their intervention is highly appreciated. All that said however, a number or key questions still lingers. The biggest is this; What really was or is our problem? Why do our people continue to expose themselves to such tragedies? Is it because our level and standard of disaster prevention and preparedness for the purpose of preventing this and other potential disasters from happening is below? If this is the case, are we then able to minimize risks where prevention is not possible? But why didn’t we, as it is believed, appropriately react to keep the Msamvu damage to a minimum? Surely, these and more questions cannot be ignored or snubbed. Some say it is all to do with ignorance. I think they are right. It is education which should be taken into consideration. But who is expected to have the knowledge and skills to protect himself or herself? Or knowledge of developing feasible disaster prevention plans and preparedness before this and other types of disaster occurs? Surely, if we cannot prevent these, we should at least be able to minimize the risks and the resulting damages. And sadly, the damage was massive. From what we hear and see, the Morogoro tragedy could possibly have been exacerbated by a number of problems. These problems are education oriented, they include but not limited to, lack of provision of practical information to our people. Especially on how they could best prepare and recover from the effects of such disaster events which may, at the time they do not know, affect them in their villages or communities. In other words the massive loss due to petrol fire was increased by knowledge on lack of hazard-specific safety tips and information to our people. Our people simply had no personal, family, or group preparedness and protection skills. You would agree with me that with no sense of immediate need, community preparedness education is rarely a priority. However, the impact we saw at Msamvu tells us that vulnerability reduction must continue, and wananchi must be made ready for disaster impacts. It is to this factual analysis that my article heading stand; After messages of sympathies, it is surely high time that the nation kick-starts disaster education race. I have read substantial amount of messages of condolences. Most of them not only are well written, but superbly communicated. As you may have media of all kinds, most particularly social media, has been full of the posts. I have no problem with these messages of sympathy. In fact they are very much needed now because the affected wananchi needs to be consoled, not only, because of the loss of their beloved, but also because of other problems caused by this disaster. I am thinking of problems such as fatigue, hyperactivity, anger and withdrawal. Yes, we must send sympathies to show that we care. Especially for the affected children and seniors, who are more vulnerable to disaster post-impact psychological effects as a result of stress, personal injury, physical damage, and economic disruption of great magnitude among the bodaboda and other families of Msamvu. We also know that when disasters strike an unprepared community like that of Mzambarauni in Mororgoro, the damage can be incredible. Ironically, most communities in our country are often not prepared, because first of all they lack education and secondly disasters do not happen often. Whatever the context, it is not time to blame. But we cannot ignore the wisdom of Mr S. Thomas, who back in 1856 said; It is better to prepare and prevent than to repair and repent. Let us do something. I am not an expert in the field, but disaster education is such an important matter. Whether you call it disaster management, risk reduction measures, disaster preparedness, response, mitigation or recovery, for me I am calling for disaster education in all our situations. I am of the opinion that disaster preparedness is everyone’s business. This I say because I believe that effective response before and after the event, shall always need comprehensive planning and coordination of all who will be around places like Msamvu or Mzambarauni and schools as well as in various community organisations as volunteer groups. So, here we are. It is time to educate our people because as Judah the Prince suggests, disaster comes only because of ignorance. Likewise Julia Child has, for us, a painful but very important reminder. She says; Any disaster is a learning process. Cheers!