LIMITED access to finance and lack of property rights’ knowledge prevent some groups like women, youth and people living with disabilities (PLWD), from fully engaging in various economic activities. That was made in a revelation assessment on ‘Gendering the Implementation of Small and Medium Size Enterprises (SMEs), Policy of 2003,’ presented here by UN Women in partnership with the Tanzanian Ministry of Industry and Trade, last year. Expounding, UN Women Representative, Ms Hodan Addou yesterday in Dar es Salaam said that during the workshop it was noted that micro, medium and large enterprises are the engine of Tanzania’s economy. “Through this partnership, we successfully collaborated in assessing the implementation of the 2003 policy with a broader view of informing and developing new enterprises development policy and enhancing aspects of gender as a programme towards the development of SMEs sector,” she said. She added that the National Development Plan (2016/17-2021/22) focuses on nurturing industries for inclusive growth to ensure that development of business enterprises in Tanzania accelerates the Gross National Income (GNI). Ms Addou clarified further that, NGI growth depends on the pace of growth on not only for businesses but also the growth of the enterprises. It was further noted that the assessment highlighted the importance of inclusive growth to promote the participation of every citizen regardless of gender, race, disability and age. On her side, Director of SMEs in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Dr Consolata Ishebabi said that the government has been reviewing various policies and laws in efforts to smooth business environments for every citizen. The reviewed policies and laws will consider access of women, youth and disabled persons to business capital, which seemed to have been serious trading barriers among the groups. “We are also aware that the groups should have frequent business-related trainings as well as information on where to have important services for nourishment of their economic activities,” she said.