JAPAN has pledged to allocate 20 billion US dollars (about 50tri/-) to African countries, Tanzania inclusive, in the next three years to support strategic projects and spur economic reforms in the continent. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe disclosed the hefty funding during the official opening of the seventh edition of the Tokyo International Conference for African Development (TICAD), which kicked off in Y okohama, Japan, yesterday. Mr Abe observed that Japan will continue to expand cooperation to develop Africa’s human resources, improve elementary education for children and help establish universal health care coverage. He noted that the established cooperation between Japan and Africa is further strengthened through TICAD, pledging to encourage the Japanese private sector to advance investment in the continent. According to Premier Abe, investments by Japanese companies in various African countries to date stand at around 20 billion US dollars. Expounding further on various programmes executed by Japan, including the ABE-African Business Education Initiative, the premier noted that over 350 youth are being supported to pursue practical trainings, with 3,000 others going through the programme as trainers. He maintained that Japan remains committed to support the health sector particularly on areas of medicines, nutrition and trainings on capacity building in the various African countries. He also pledged to continue supporting the continent in developing infrastructure, including roads, ports as well as technical support. Prime Minister K assim Majaliwa who is attending the meeting on behalf of President John Magufuli noted that Tanzania is among the largest producers of raw materials for export. The premier observed that Tanzania is committed to use her raw materials to promote industrialisation by embarking on production of diverse products with the view of boosting employment and attracting foreign direct investments. Mr Majaliwa revealed that Tanzania is among the beneficiaries of the programmes, identifying areas which will be emphasized in attaining the country’s industrialisation agenda as reliable infrastructure to facilitate trade of goods and raw materials. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba K abudi remarked that unlike the previous TICAD summits, TICAD 7 has for the first time set the stage for Yokohama strategic plan where instead of just resolutions, there will be an opportunity to set goals as well as measure their implementation and access to funding. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah said that Africa is currently in need of technological revolution and innovation to address various challenges facing the continent, including youth unemployment and climate change.