AS death toll from the recent Morogoro oil tanker accident hit 102 yesterday, police in Kagera region have arrested eight suspects over theft of fuel from another tanker that overturned in Ngara District. Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi who visited the accident scene said the illfated Scania oil tanker with registration number T066TMY whose trailer registration numbers are T861CFD overturned at Mshikamano village in Rusumo Ward. “The tanker was heading to Kigali, Rwanda from Dar es Salaam with a consignment of 34,000 litres of diesel. The driver, who was identified as Juma Msafiri (39), died on the spot,” said the RPC. According to Commander Malimi, soon after the accident on Sunday morning at around 8.00am, people from the surrounding villages gathered at the scene and stole the diesel. Police have so far arrested eight suspects who will be arraigned upon completion of investigations. He explained that the oil tanker was the property of Lake Oil Trans Company, adding that security was beefed up around the tanker amid efforts to take it from the vicinity. The RPC warned residents in the area to avoid gathering around vehicles which get involved in accidents, saying some of them could possibly contain explosive materials. The warning comes few days after the government announced that it was taking measures to strengthen emergency response and act promptly to save lives in case of future disasters. Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Prime Minister’s Office, Policy, Coordination and Investment, Dr Dorothy Mwaluko said in Dar es Salaam recently that the government had learnt that delays in disaster management were detrimental to the lives of survivors. “We have already established an emergency centre whose plans are ongoing to enable it connect to every corner of the country for effective communication in case of disasters for prompt response, which also depends on prompt dissemination of information to the centre,” she said. President John Magufuli directed that all victims be treated under government expenses. Apart from the death-toll reaching 102 as of yesterday, there are still 13 survivors nursing wounds at Muhimbili National Hospital and 17 others at Morogro Regional Hospital, according to Dr Mwaluko.