USA basketball coach Evan Lorendo has volunteered to help Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) implement and sustain youth’s development programmes in the country. TBF president Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that Lorendo has agreed to support the federation in capacity building so as to develop Tanzania basketball, majoring in youth programmes and resources mobilization. He said, Lorendo, apart from helping to run youths programmes, he will also lend TBF a hand in capacity building when implementing and developing basketball programmes and other activities managed by it. “I want to thank Lorendo for the support he has given us so far and all services he is going to offer us. We will give him full support so as to make him and TBF achieve the desired goal,” he said. Adding, Magesa said Tanzania is heading to the right direction when it comes to the development of the youth programmes. “In 2018, the national Under- 18 teams took part in FIBA African Zone Five competition, and this year we have also participated in the Under-16 girls at Zone Five and for the first time qualified for the continental level tournament. “The U-16 Girls team also won a Fair Play award in the event held in Kigali, Rwanda which also enabled them to be ranked 7th in Africa out of over 50 countries, these are among the biggest achievements so far.” Adding, he said all that show that they have started well and if they continue working hard like this with other stakeholders such as Youth Development Programme (YDP) and others they will do even better in 2020. “We hope to continue getting support from the national team coach Matthew McCollister and JUCO who did excellent by helping young Tanzanians to get Scholarships in basketball academies in U.S.A and Canada,” he said. He said six young Tanzanians have already secured scholarship so far and they are doing well there. “This is idea opportunity to strengthen our future national teams, hopefully in a few years things will change.”