TANZANIA Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), has pledged to utilise the upcoming international aviation security symposium to promote Mount Kilimanjaro and other tourist attractions in the country. The event is scheduled for Montréal, Canada, from September 18-19, 2019. Montréal is the headq uarters of International Civil Aviation O rganisation (ICAO ) , a specialised agency of the United Nations, which codifies the principles and techniq ues of international air navigation and fosters the planning and development of international air transport to ensure safe and orderly growth. Abiding by standard international aviation practices, the country stands to attract more international flights and increase air traffic. Tanzania has expansive national parks and game reserves and boasts of a uniq ue flora and fauna the visitors can enjoy a couple of times and still have plenty to see and experience during their second visit or other future visits. There is none to compare in the world and given the expansive nature of national park s and game reserves there is always something new that attracts tourists. Not only this, with the expansion of Julius Nyerere International Airport (J NIA), the facility competes with other international airports across the world in terms of abiding by standards and recommended practices concerning air navigation, improved infrastructure and services, security and safety measures and facilitation of procedures for international civil aviation. According to TCAA Director General for the Disposition of Aviation Safety and for the Licensing of Aviation Personnel Hamza J ohari, TCAA will utilise this international event to attract international tourists to come to and visit Africa’s highest mountain, Kilimanjaro, and various tourist attractions. Therefore, mark eting the country and its tourist attractions is something we shouldn’t forget at all because tourism earns the country a significant amount of foreign currency and contributes to the national economy. Indeed, this should have been done a long time ago. However, the government has made great strides in marketing the country and its tourist attractions. What is still needed though is to maintain the country’s beauty and standard services so that visitors mak e our country their second home. We can do this as a nation and as individuals. What TCAA has planned to do should be maintained and other authorities can tak e a leaf and plan similar initiatives whenever there is a local, regional or international event tak ing place. We, therefore, commend TCAA for taking this initiative to mark et Tanzania’s tourism sector although the plan is long overdue.