NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars players World Cup mission has been drafted, and the team was due to move into residential training yesterday, ahead of the opening 202 World Cup qualifying match against Burundi on Wednesday. The provisional squad of 30 players will camp in Dar es Salaam under interim coach, Etienne Ndayiragije and his assistants; Selemani Matola and Juma Mgunda. The first leg will take place in B ujumbura on Wednesday, while the return leg will be played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a week later. Should Taifa Stars see off Burundi, they will be one of the 14 winners in the qualification playoffs to join the continent’s top-ranked 26 sides, who have been exempted from the preliminary stage of the long journey to Qatar. African teams will contest a final playoff round in their World Cup 202 2 qualification campaign, a system last employed for the 2014 tournament, the Confederation of African Football has decided. Qualifiers for the next World Cup in Q atar will be divided into three stages with two rounds of knockout ties on either side of league competition, officials said. The 28 lowest ranked sides on the continent will first contest a knockout round over two legs, with the 14 winners advancing to the group stage. The 28 include Madagascar, who reached the Africa Cup of Nations quarter-finals last week. The winners will join the 26 highest ranked sides in a 40- team, 10- group pool phase that will be played over 18 months. The group winners will then be drawn into five playoff ties over two legs with the victors qualifying for the World Cup. The first leg is hosted by the lower ranked country. For the 2018 finals in Russia, there were two preliminary rounds to cut the field down to 20 countries, who then contested the five places for Africa in a group competition. The changes come despite no alteration in the number of World Cup places for African teams. FIFA have left each continental confederation to decide its qualifying format for the 202 World Cup and set its own date for the preliminary round draw. Africa’s World Cup qualifiers will overlap with qualifiers for the next Africa Cup of Nations in 2021 but a suggestion to combine them was rejected by CAF’s executive committee. Taifa Stars players called for the mission are goalkeepers; Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata (Y anga) and B eno Kakolanya (Simba), Defenders; Shomary Kapombe (Simba), Hassan Kessy (Nkana FC-Z ambia), G adiel Michael (Simba), Mohamed Hussein (Simba), Kelvin Y ondani (Y anga), Iddy Moby (Polisi Tanzania) and Abdi B anda (Highlands- South Africa). Midfielders; Jonas Mkude (Simba), B araka Majogoro (Polisi Tanzania), Himid Mao (ENPPI-Egypt), Ally N’ganzi (Minnesota-U SA), Abubakar Salum (Azam) and Frank Domayo (Azam). Strikers; Simon Msuva (Al Jadida-Morocco), Eliuter Mpepo (B uildcom-Z ambia), Mbwana Samatta (KRC G enk-B elgium), Abdillahie Y ussuf (Blackpool-England), Farid Mussa (Tenerife- Spain), Iddy Selemani (Azam), Kelvin John (Serengeti B oys), Ayoub Lyanga (Coastal U nion), Shaban Iddy Chilunda (Azam), B oniface Maganga (KMC), Hassan Dilunga (KMC), Mohamed Issa (Y anga) and Abdul Aziz Makame (Y anga).