TANZANIA is considered as an example to other African countries for having best practices for climate change adaptation on the continent. An environment and climate change expert at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Prof Pius Yanda, said this in Dar es Salaam yesterday, noting that other African countries on academic researches came to Tanzania to learn about best practices. Prof Yanda who is the chairperson of Mwalimu Nyerere Professional Chair on Environment and Climate Change at UDSM was briefing reporters on a plan to hold an international conference on environment and climate change in the city in October this year. The conference will bring over 300 participants, including researchers, academicians, scholars and practitioners across the Southern African Development Countries (SADC) region and other countries on the African continent. He said the conference was being organised by the Institute of Resources Assessment and the Centre for Climate Change Studies through the Mwalimu Nyerere Chair on Environment and Climate Change. “The aim of the conference is to provide a platform to participants from Africa and beyond to discuss new advances and findings in the diverse and multidisciplinary field,” he said. Prof Yanda said the conference would feature ecosystem management on climate change and food security and on technological innovation, environmental ethics and climate change management. “Apart from scientific sessions, the conference will include high level segments and policy dialogues to deliberate on key policy messages on integrated approaches for enhancing climate resilience in Africa,” he noted. Prof Yanda said before the conference, the institute would organise meetings for national high profile government leaders and policy makers to discuss and deliberate on scientific research conducted by the institute on the field. On the other hand, he urged researchers, academicians and other interested people across the globe to participate in the conference that would be held at Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre.