A CALL has been made for Tanzanians to invest in the newly launched Ibanda National Park in Kyerwa district, Kagera Region, especially in the construction of tourist hotels in the area. The District Executive Director (DED), Mr Shadrack Mhagama made the call yesterday in Kyerwa, saying that over 13 acres of land have already been set aside for the hotel construction in the Park. The DED was speaking about available investment opportunities in Kyerwa, Kagera Region to a team of Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), journalists who inquired on how the district was prepared to participate in the Kagera Week which is set to commence next week from 12th to 17th. “Ibanda is among tourist destinations we are going to announce during the Kagera Week. It is adjacent to three countries-Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda. here is a place we call ‘Nchi Tatu’ in the park, where Tanzania meets those countries geographically. People can put up tourist hotels at this point and operate various businesses to tap clients from all the three countries and beyond,” he said. According to him, the district has also already discussed with the Tanzania National Parks-TANAPA to bring in a number of animals which are currently not available in Ibanda, which will attract many more tourists to visit the place. The park currently does not have lions, giraffes, hippopotamus, elephants, leopards and buffalo, among others, and Mr Mhagama says that TANAPA has already confirmed of bringing the animals soon. He stressed that 13.68 acres of land has already been surveyed to smoothen investment opportunities in Ibanda, where transport infrastructure will be put to ease movement. Kyerwa District Administrative Secretary (DAS), Mr Grayson Mwengu commented that apart from Ibanda, Kyerwa had more investment opportunities, mostly in agriculture, fishing as well as livestock keeping. He clarified that Kyerwa led other districts in Kagera in coffee farming, with the ability to produce about 30,000 tons per year. Despite abundance in raw materials, he said there are no investors available to process the coffee to the last stage of taking it to the consumer, and as a result, many growers have been forced to sell the crop in raw form and earn minimal profit. “Kagera Week was introduced with the aim of promoting investment opportunities available in the region, and to connect local investors with foreign investors so that they can exchange trading experience,” the Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig.Gen.Marco Gaguti told the TSN team. According to him, about 60 foreigners and 250 locals have already confirmed their participation. It was estimated that over 300 participants will show up.