MAINLAND champions Simba SC have signed a new shirt sponsor deal with UHL Sports Dubai Company worth 600m/- over two years. The club’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Crescentius Magori said at the press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday that UHL Sports Dubai through local representative, Romario Sports 2010 LTD has agreed a two-year deal to supply the club’s shirt. Magori said UHL Sports have been on Simba’s shirts for several years now, but the new deal is a significant rise in revenue for the CAF Champions League quarterfinalists. “From tomorrow (today) the shirts will go on sale and Romario will be the suppliers of the kits countrywide,” he said. UHL Sport Dubai Agent in Tanzania, Minhaal Dewji said they are ready for the task and they have enough in stock. The Msimbazi Reds squad that pitched a preseason camp in Rustenburg, South Africa were due to return home yesterday ready for busy annual ‘Simba Week’ starting today and culminate with ‘Simba’ Day on August 6th this year. With CAF Champions League fixture officially released and Simba thrown into the fray right from the first round, the Msimbazi Street side had to adjust their programme. Simba will face Mozambican side UD Songo in the first round, with the first leg set to be played away in Maputo in the weekend of August 9, 10 and 11 while the return leg will be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam two weeks later. According to reports posted on the club’s social media networks, the eagerly awaited ‘Simba Day’ will now be staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on August 6th this year, where they will face six times Zambia champions Power Dynamos on the occasion of the Tanzanian club’s 83rd anniversary. In 1991, Power Dynamos became the first southern African club to win a continental trophy after they won the African Cup Winners’ Cup. The annual event, which is normally staged on August 8th, is increasingly becoming popular among Simba supporters, and this will be the tenth year in a row the Reds stage the bonanza, which precedes the start of the Mainland Premier League season. As usual, the club will use the day to unveil new kits for the 2019/2020 season, introduce their entire squad for the forthcoming season and award outstanding current and former player. The new faces will include Brazilian trio -- defender, Tairone Santos da Silva from Brazil’s Serie D side Atletico Cearense FC, defender Gerson Fraga Vieira from India Top Division side ATK and striker Wilker Henrique da Silva from Bragantino FC, a Serie D side in Brazil. Others are Sudanese midfielder, Sharaf Eldin Shiboub Ali Abdalrahman from Al Hilal, striker Deo Kanda from Congolese side TP Mazembe and Kenyan midfielder, Francis Kahata from Gor Mahia. The list also has left wing back Gadiel Michael, goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya and attacking midfielder, Ibrahim Ajib from Young Africans. The list also has central defender Kennedy Wilson Juma from Singida United and attacker Miraji Athumani from Lipuli FC.