YOUNG Africans and Azam FC sailed through to the first round of the CAF inter-club competitions after winning their respective matches yesterday. Juma Balinya’s set piece in the first half saw Yanga registering a 1-0 win over Botswana’s Township Rollers in their CAF Champions League preliminary round second leg at the National Stadium in Gaborone. Yanga edged out Township 2-1 on aggregate, following a 1-1 draw in the first leg held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam two weeks ago. Popa, as Township Rollers are popularly known, had good chances and missed a penalty taken by Segolame Boy, but Yanga took their chance with a well taken Balinya goal. The match started at a good tempo with the two sides looking for attacking options but cancelling each other out; restricting each other in front of goal. Apart from speculative long range strikes, there were no clear cut chances on either end in the first half. But in the 40th minute, Balinya opened the scoring for Yanga, with a brilliantly executed free kick from outside the Rollers penalty box. Yanga took the one goal lead to the break, and in the second half the game opened up. Motsholetsi Sikele made a tearing run up the right flank in the 56th minute, misplacing his pass in trying to locate Segolame Boy in the box, with the Yanga defence outnumbered. Minutes later, Maano Ditshupo saw his long range shot saved by Yanga goalkeeper Metacha Boniface Mnata. Rollers then won a penalty but Segolame Boy’s 63rd minute penalty was saved by Metacha Mnata. A ball floated into the box by Galabgwe Moyana was fisted over the bar by Metacha Mhata. Rollers brought in Tlhalefo Molebatsi for Serameng then Jackson Lesole for captain Ditshupo, with Kitso Mpuisang replacing Motsholetsi Sikele late on. As Rollers stepped up the attack, the Yanga rearguard was forced to clear the ball off the line in the 76th minute. Lesole made good runs up the right flank and on one occasion located Tumisang Orebonye, who tried in vain to set up his teammates in the box. With four minutes to go, Mpuisang headed wide after a Boy cross into the box. It ended 1-0 to Yanga, the visitors progressing with a 2-1 aggregate scoreline. Following the victory, Yanga have set a date with the Zambian giants Zesco who eliminated Eswatini’s Green Mamba after a 3-0 on aggregate. They won 2-0 away and registered 1-0 win yesterday in Lusaka, Zambia. In Dar es Salam, Azam FC managed to overturn the 0-1 deficit after they thrashed Ethiopia’s Fasil Ketema 3-1 in CAF Confederation Cup preliminary round, second leg at the Azam Chamazi Complex yesterday. Azam eliminated Ketema 3-2 on aggregate. Richard Djobi scored a brace for Azam. The first came in the 22nd minute after he was set through inside the box, strode past defenders before releasing a shot that sailed into the back of the nets. With the visitors still puzzled, Djobi netted his second in the 31st minute, through a well taken set piece. Ketema pulled one back in the 37th minute, through Mujib Kassim but Azam were assured a place in the next round with the third goal in the 58th minute after Obrey Chirwa finished off Bruce Kangwa and Emmanuel Mvuyekure one two passes inside the box. In Zanzibar, Malindi beat Somalia’s Mogadishu City 1-0 to sail through into the first round of Confederation Cup. Mohamed Mosi netted the solitary goal in the 70th minute. The first leg ended in a barren draw. They will face Al Masry of Egypt in the next round.