TANZANIAN driver Dharam Pandya failed to make it in the top three as Kenyan Manvir Baryan successfully defended his Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally crown in Busiika yesterday. The Kenyan posted a total time loss of 2 hours 02 minutes and 30 seconds to beat a stiff opposition from Yassin Nasser, who was navigated by Ali Katumba (2:16:07), Arthur Blick Jr/George Ssemakula (2:16:11) and Christakis Fitidis who finished second third and fourth overall respectively after eight sections in Kayunga. This is his third consecutive victory in the Pearl of Africa rally making him the first driver to win the Pearl rally three in a row. The Rally is another round of the Africa Rally Championship (ARC), which kicked off in the central district of Luwero on Friday. “It has been a very fast rally but I feel very good winning the Pearl of Africa Rally for the third time which has strengthened my chances of winning the Africa rally championship,” Baryan said after the event. Yassin Nasser was very excited finishing second overall and also emerging the winner of the National Rally Championship (NRC) category. On Friday, Baryan with his British navigator Drew Sturrock took the lead in Day One. The defending champion, driving a Skoda Fabia R5, posted a total time loss of three minutes and 17 seconds, while Uganda’s Jas Mangat finished second with three seconds behind Baryan. Another Ugandan, Hasan Alwi was in the third place, while Tanzania crew Dharam Pandya was fourth ahead of the Moil team of Yasin Nasser. Prior to the Ugandan event, Baryan was leading the ARC table with 176 points, while Leroy Gomes (Zambia) was second with 88 points. Gomes did not enlist for the Ugandan rally. W hile Baryan won the Pearl of Africa Rally in 2018 and 2017, Uganda’s Hassan Alwi won the event in 2016 and Jaspreet Chatthe (Kenya) won in 2015. Tanzanian crew Dharam Pandya hoped to take over the reign in his ultra-fast Subaru GBV 15. Mzizima Motor Sports Club driver Dharam Pandya was the only Tanzanian in the rally and was keen to end the dominance of Baryan and his magic Skoda Fabia. Pandya is one of the fifty crews who have been confirmed for the two-day Pearl of Africa Rally whose main venues are Busiika and Kayunga districts. The event opened with a 4.36 kilometre Super Special Stage at the Motorsports Arena in Busiika. Crews headed to Kayunga District for four stages; all repeated covering a total competitive distance of 210 kilometres. Clerk of the Course (COC) Mukiibi Katende said that the event was successful and had no major incident that threatens safety. “What we had as accidents were normal sporting incidents of drivers losing control of their cars in the stages, but did not cause accidents,” Katende said.