DEVELOPED countries have to assist Africa in resource utilisation to boost people’s development instead of confining the continent into a hub of raw materials to feed their industries. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba Kabudi, speaking on the sidelines of a ministerial meeting ahead of the seventh edition of Tokyo International Conference for African Development (TICAD) Summit, in Yokohama, Japan, advocated for support to Africa. According to the minister, the meeting, among other things, emphasised on putting up proper infrastructure that will link the continent and promote productivity. Professor Kabudi said the meeting has agreed to ask industrialised nations to increase funding and further support the delivery of social services, especially the health sector in the fight against diseases like malaria, tuberculosis (TB), HIV and AIDS.Other areas include facilitation of good governance as well as promotion of peace and security in the continent. Opening the meeting, Japan’s Foreign Minister Kono Taro applauded African countries for the progress made in their economies, pledging further Japanese support to realise their goals, including industrial revolution. Mr Taro revealed that the cooperation between Africa and Japan through TICAD has continually become strong over years since its establishment in 1993, noting that they are looking forward to fruitful deliberations at the imminent TICAD meeting. “I welcome you all in Yokohama as preparations for the seventh meeting are on foot...our role is to go through the draft of the Yokohama Declaration and its strategic plan, which aims at benefiting all of us upon being assented by the Heads of State,” noted Mr Taro. Egyptian Minister of Foreign Affairs who also cochairs the summit Sameh Shoukry commended Japan for continually organising the conferences, bringing Africa into the industrial revolution and overcoming various challenges including youth unemployment. The Deputy Chairperson of the African Union Commission, who is one of the organisers of the seventh TICAD Conference, Mr Kwesi Quartey said that the summit is taking place at a time where the African Union continues to implement agenda 2063. The agenda, among other things, aims at enabling African countries to achieve high levels of development in various sectors, including health, education, technology and infrastructure. Director of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Regional Service Centre for Africa Lamin Manneh said that the cooperation between Africa and Japan through TICAD has played a significant role in the development of the African continent. The Seventh Conference, among other things, provides an opportunity for strategic planning and development agenda to be agreed between Japan and Africa over the next three years from 2019 to 2021. This year’s conference agenda seeks to discuss economic reforms and improve the investment environment by promoting industrialisation and innovation. It is also about enhancing the security and resilience of the community as well as developing efforts to promote peace and security in Africa. The Seventh Conference Agenda is in line with the African Union’s 2063 agenda, the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and other international resolutions like the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The meeting, which has attracted ministers from African countries and various development partners, is being held in preparation for the meeting of Heads of State and Government scheduled for August 28 through August 30, 2019.