AFRICAN governments and regional economic communities have the duty to raise public awareness of the continent’s ownership of its potential natural resources, which will make leaders and their people understand how such resources are depleted. The call was made by five retired Heads of State and participants in the sixth edition of the African Leadership Forum taking place at the State House for the past two days under the coordination of Uongozi Institute. Presenting the meeting’s recommendations, the Executive Chairman of Diligent Consulting Ltd, Prof Andrew Temu, who acted as forum secretary, said it had been agreed that the kind of hunger being described above should lead action to establish policies and institutions that protected the continent’s natural resources. He noted that governments had been advised to initiate joint partnerships to protect their wildlife as that was equated with protecting Africa’s future. He said governments needed to convince themselves that solutions to the problems facing the continent should come from within. “Africa should crate incentives for legal natural resource businesses as well as encourage intra-regional-trade and the private sector to invest in areas such as deep sea fishing currently done by foreign firms only,” he said. Among the recommendations given include pressing for effective international measures, which discourage consumer demand for Africa’s natural resources, especially wildlife and advocate the criminalisation of illicit trade of natural resources globally. Participants addressed questions on whether Africa was aware of the potential it had, including land, wildlife, fish species and forest resources in fostering the socioeconomic transformation of the continent. As a result, the meeting noted that there were different levels of awareness depending on who was being addressed, including technocrats and scientists, who were aware of the potential of natural resources. However, ordinary citizens and the lowly educated population may be less knowledgeable about the existing potential or consequences of alternative use of natural resources for the continent. From a different perspective, it was noted that Africa was aware of the potential, but lacked the know-how of sustainable utilisation of the resources. It was further noted that when natural resources were used for livelihoods, it was in ways that negatively impacted on the environment, for instance, the scale of impact caused by charcoal and the fact that governments obtained revenue from such source of fuel, which left African governments in a dilemma on what to do. “Efforts to priority issues centred on factors leading to a negative impact of natural resources, including tenure, population growth, water catchment management systems, unsustainable harvesting of forest and fishery resources and the like. “This awareness has to be linked with Africa’s education systems so that future generations may manage the resources more sustainably,” noted Prof Temu. Governments should invest in research, whose results will inform leaders about better natural resource management strategies. Such investment in research should focus especially on rural economies, their socioeconomic development strategies and how to mitigate negative environmental impacts, an example being research in the use of alternative energy sources starting with addressing deforestation for domestic charcoal. He went on to note that African governments should pursue aggressive public awareness strategies and campaigns on the implications of mismanaging natural resources. Participants agreed that to articulate relevant natural resource management practices they had to start by understanding key threats, including poverty, elements of traditional African socioeconomic settings and certain cultural values and beliefs and the vast informal sector. “The ultimate natural resource management principles and good practices should lead Africa to respond positively to prevailing environmental threats,” he said. To achieve this retired President Jakaya Kikwete said there was a need for better comprehension of the balance between the utilisation and the rate of replenishment of renewable resources and move away from the notion that such resources were unlimited. However, the question of ownership needs to be addressed, including human capacity, financial resources and political will. For his part, retired President Benjamin Mkapa said Africa neither benefitted from the process of carbon emissions depleting the ozone layer nor did it have adequate knowledge and financial resources to mitigate the effects. As a result, there is lack of coordination among African countries, poor definition of laws and responsibilities and lack of harmonisation of laws and policies related to environmental management. Africa needs leadership in natural resource management and institutions that can have a continental voice.