THE World Bank (WB) has showered praises on the government for its resolve to implement the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project with its internally generated funds. WB Executive Director for Africa Group Anne Kabagambe hailed the government for implementing the project when she toured the project to witness ongoing construction of the railway line from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro. “This project will not only benefit Tanzania, but will also link other land locked countries. I sincerely congratulate the Tanzania government for this historic decision,” she said. She added: “It’s my hope that in future other international financial institutions, such WB, which I represent, may come forward to financially support this project to complete it. I’m so happy and I will be the ambassador of what we’ve witnessed here.” Ms Kabagambe noted that she was pleased with the expertise and modern engineering employed by Yapi Merkezi, the Turkish company, implementing the project. “I have come here to see for myself the implementation of the historic decision made by the Tanzania government of constructing a modern railway. I sincerely congratulate President John Magufuli for implementing this project using internal funds,” she insisted. She said while WB was looking into how to increase financial support to various development projects in Tanzania she would persuade the WB management and other international financial institutions to give funds to Tanzania so that it could complete the project to unlock socioeconomic opportunities to a number of African countries. TRC Director of Civil Engineering Infrastructure (DCEI) Felix Nlalio expressed his gratitude to Ms Kabagambe for touring the project, especially for her pledge to persuade other international financial institutions to support the project. He said their task was to implement the project 24/7 to ensure it was completed on time. The implementation of the first phase of SGR Project from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro, which involves 300km, kicked off on May 2, 2017 and is expected to be completed on November 2, this year, at the cost of 2.7tri/-. The implementation of the SGR stretch from Morogoro to Makutopora in Dodoma (Manyoni, Singida) with a length of 422km started in February 26, last year, and is expected to be completed in 36 months at the cost of 4.4tri/-.