TANZANIA Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) has encouraged potential investors in the country to team-up and form insurance companies to increase their share in the insurance market. TIRA’s call comes amid concerns by various insurance stakeholders that Tanzania is not benefiting significantly from the sector due to foreign dominance. Insurance premiums for major contracts of huge projects by foreign companies have been inked outside the country, benefiting foreign countries. Commissioner of Insurance Dr Mussa Juma told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that upon partnership and sale of shares, the domestic companies will ably accumulate capital and expand their businesses. The newly appointed commissioner, for instance, hinted that at least three out of 30 insurance companies in the country are fully owned by Tanzanians. In total, there are 31 insurance companies, but one is operating as re-insurance company— the company that insures other insurance companies. According to insurance regulations, re-insurance company must be fully operated by indigenous, said Dr Juma.“ As a result, huge portion of insurance profits is taken by foreigners and contribute to their respective countries gross domestic products… insurance contribution to Tanzanian economy remains insignificant,” he said. The authority is set to increase the number of local insurance firms through various approaches, including wooing businesspeople with huge capitals in other businesses to also invest in insurance, said Dr Juma. TIRA has realised that lack of capitals is among the major reasons behind the low level of response for local investors in insurance businesses. Dr Juma affirmed that for the same purpose of increasing local companies in insurance businesses, already the regulation has been approved to allow financial institutions, mostly banks, to invest in the sector as insurance agents. “ All those approaches will be accompanied by public awareness campaigns to let Tanzanians know that insurance business makes profits like any other areas of investment,” he explained. Dr Juma reiterated that insurance contribution toward GDP was huge if Tanzanians were fully engaged in the sector. Various sector stakeholders, including academicians, businesspeople and politicians have been lamenting that insurance premiums on major contracts are being signed outside the country, denying the country huge business. During the signing of the contract for construction of Kigogo-B usisi bridge in Mwanza region between the government and two Chinese firms, Geita Rural Member of Parliament Joseph Kasheku cited the mineral endowed lake zone whose insurance covers have been signed outside the country, denying Tanzania enormous revenues.