THE country is slowly getting into fervent fever, what with the Minister responsible for local government announcing the regulations and timetable for the forthcoming local level elections in November this year. No wonder, this DC in Bukoba had elections going on in his head when he was talking to farmers in the District, as is reported in a news item titled: “DC appeals to farmers to focus on agribusiness” (Daily Blog August 24, p. 2). Expounding on something, the DC is reported to have: “noted that the Ruling Party’s election ‘manifest’ identifies the importance of the agriculture sector, which they (farmers) should embrace”. “Election manifest”? Certainly not! For sure, the writer knows the difference between a manifest and a manifesto. In case he/she has forgotten, here is a reminder. A manifest is (1) a document listing a ship’s contents, cargo, passengers, and crew, for the use of customs officers (you will be familiar with this meaning if you have imported a car from Japan recently);(2) a list of wagons forming a freight train, and, (3) a list of passengers or cargo in an aircraft. Therefore, a ‘manifest’ has nothing to do with elections (not directly, anyway). Manifest’s near look-alike, manifesto, is an important term, come election time. A “manifesto” is a public declaration of policy and aims, especially one issued before an election by a political party or candidate. The plural form of “manifesto” is “manifestos” or “manifestoes”, so please note. Therefore, the DC talked about the Ruling Party’s election manifesto, not, election manifest. Councilors in Nkasi District Council are not a happy lot at the moment. Their pride has been hurt. This is the impression you get when you read this news item titled: “Councilors furious with Auditor’s ‘frog remark’ to them”. Tell us more Mr Reporter: “Nkasi District Council Councilors are up in arms ‘with’ their District Internal Auditor, for making rude remarks ‘at’ them and comparing them ‘with’ frogs”. Calling Honourable Councilors “frogs”? Mein Gott! All the same, I would have re-written the sentence, doing away with the two “with’s”, into something as follows;. “Nkasi District Council Councilors are up in arms ‘against’ (not “with”) their District Internal Auditor, for making rude remarks about (not, ‘at’) them and comparing them ‘to’ (not “with”) frogs”. Here we go: “Nkasi District Council Councilors are up in arms ‘against’ their District Internal Auditor, for making rude remarks ‘about’ them and comparing them ‘to’ frogs” Why frogs? The Auditor allegedly “compared the councilors ‘with’ frogs, which make noise, and calm down slowly whenever they face a stranger ………”. A clearly enraged councilor is quoted as saying: “It is disheartening that the Auditor has failed us, worse still ‘has’ compared us ‘with’ noisy ‘flogs’ and this is unbearable…..”. None of the two words: “frogs”, or “flogs” is tolerable. A frog is a frog even if it is mis-spelt into a “flog”. The councilors have vowed not to work with the Auditor. They want him transferred but are asking for something else: “In a related development, they asked the government to investigate his wealth, and ‘extent’ the probe to other accountants because they live ‘lager’ than their incomes. They (councilors) hinted that the suspects collect local revenue and turn ‘for’ their personal use”. It looks like the Councilors want the Auditor and other accountants in the Council investigated, since they seem to be “living large”, compared to the income they are supposed to be having. They may be conspicuously taking one lager too many. For, “to live large” means to live like a very wealthy and successful person. This is the Impression these accountants are depicting to the Councilors. The sentences need to be re-written as follows: “In a related development, they asked the government to investigate his wealth, and ‘extend’ the probe to other accountants because they live ‘larger’ than their incomes. They (councilors) hinted that the suspects collect local revenue and ‘divert it to’ their personal use”. As you prepare yourself to fulfill your civic duty of voting, this, and next year, please read the vying parties’ manifestos carefully, so that you are well informed. Avoid being big-mouthed. You could find yourself in trouble, just like this auditor in Nkasi found himself in hot soup with his councilors, for comparing them to frogs. Always respect people and do not call them names lusuggakironde@gmail.com