SIMBA SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems said winning the Community Shield v ictory on Saturday is a clear indication th at his team is the best in the country. The Mainland Premier League champions defeated Azam FC 4-2 in a thrilling match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam to officially open the 2019-20 league season as 20 teams will engaged in a fierce race for the league diadem. It was the third back to back Community Shield win for Simba, their fifth overall and have since tied with their traditional rivals, Y oung Africans, who have also bagged it five times, whereas Mtibwa Sugar and Azam FC, each attained it once. However, reacting after the tense match, Aussems said the win has proved itself that his side is the best team in the country, insisting that they are set to continue achieving big things as far as success in football is concerned. “It was a serious battle, we played against one of the popular teams in Africa who gave us a good match but, winning at the end was the most important thing,” Aussems said. Adding, the Belgian tactician said he used the game as a rehearsal for their upcoming CAF Champions League second leg encounter against U niao Desportiva do Songo (UD Songo), due to be played at the same venue in the city. Furthermore, Aussems who enjoyed his second back to back Community Shield trophy at the helm of the Msimbazi Street-based club, expressed his satisfaction that it is a good start for them ahead of the approaching busy season. On his part, Azam FC Head Coach, Etienne Ndairagije reiterated that experience worked well for Simba, called upon his technical bench to go back to the drawing table and sort out mistakes which emerged to his team throughout the hot clash. “The goals we conceded today (Saturday) were primarily caused as a result of individual mistakes that is why we must come together as a team and correct them instantly,” he said. Moreover, Ndairagije, who serves as Interim coach of the national team, Taifa Stars, said they will do what it takes to be a changed team in the next competitive games. Also, making his voice heard on the day was Simba’s newly signed box to box midfielder, Sharaf Eldin Shiboub, who netted a brace in the first half to give his team a deserved 2-1 lead at halftime. “I am very happy today for contributing two goals to my team. Generally, it was not a simple game such that we had to fight hard to earn the victory,” the towering midfielder said while dedicating the win to Simba fans countrywide. He additionally said it is a positive start for him as he looks forward to the commencement of the new season. In his remarks, Azam striker Idd Chilunda who fired his team upfront in the 13th minute of the match said he hoped that the technical team has already identified weak areas of the side for them to do well in their future encounters. “I will closely work with my colleagues to ensure that we do well for the benefit of the whole club,” he said.