THE Geita Gold Mining (GGM), has dished out 9.2bn/- for the implementation of its Corporate and Social Responsibility (CSR), for this year. According to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), signed by GGM, Geita District Council and Geita Town Council over the weekend. The funds will be allocated to health, environment, education, agriculture and infrastructure projects. GGML Vice-President Sustainability, Simon Shayo said the agreement record another incredible milestone that geared to enhance community ownership and commitment to the said projects. “We believe working together with the host communities through an inclusive process will enhance community ownership and commitment to these projects and this will underpin their sustainability,” Mr Shayo said. The Geita Regional Commissioner (RC), Eng. Robert Gabriel, was among the top government officials who witnessed the signing of the MoU and termed the development as a good progress in implementing the new Mining Act. He commended GGM for being the first mining company in the country to comply with the law last year adding his office was looking forward to continuing this impactful cooperation this year and beyond. The agreed projects this year are expected to benefit the Geita communities in the areas of education, health, environment, sports, agribusiness and SME’s–s mall and medium business development. Since inception, GGM has been working closely with the Geita Town and District Councils to support various community projects in the region as well as national programmes through Public- Private Partnerships. Those include water supply, education and economic development activities in the agriculture, construction and service sectors with over 57bn/-been spent for the cause in the last 10 years. Last year, GGM spent another 9.2bn/-on several community projects in the areas of construction and the furnishing and repair of primary and secondary school infrastructure in Geita Region among other projects and continues to remain complaint and top taxpayer in the country. In July 2017, the parliament of Tanzania amended the Mining Act 2010 and introduced section 105, which describes the procedure for mineral right holders to prepare and execute their corporate social responsibility (CSR), plans.