IT was a bright evening for Young Africans whose maiden Mwananchi Day at National Stadium yesterday claimed a huge success. Besides parading new squad for the 2019-20 league season, the squad proved worthy as witnessed in the international friendly match against highly entertaining Kariobangi Sharks from Kenya. Before the full packed stadium, Yanga’s newly paraded squad, failed to beat the visitors whose football touches impressed every fan at the stadium. The teams fought gallantly, but none emerged victor as the teams shared spoils in 1-1 draw. Both goals were netted in the second half. Still it was clear that the new look Yanga will be a force to reckon with this season with the presence of mega stars such as Patrick Sibomana, Sadney Urikhob, Juma Balinya and Lamine Moro. Yanga will compete in CAF Champions League next season as the country football federation won four tickets to play in the CAF governed tournaments . That followed Simba’s qualifications to the quarter finals of the CAF Champions league, earning Tanzania 15 points, which added up to Yanga’s three points they earned for reaching group stage of CAF Confederation Cup in the previous season to make total points earned by Tanzania to 18. According the five year CAF rule, Tanzania is now ranked 10th from among 12 countries that are allowed to enter four teams. According to Confederation of African Football (CAF) Tanzania will be represented by two teams in CAF Champions League (CCL) and two teams in the Confederation Cup (CCC) in 2019/20 season. Simba, who are the Mainland champions and second placed Yanga will compete in the Champions League, while Azam FC, who won the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and KMC, who finished fourth in the top flight league will be the country’s envoys in Confederation Cup. Foreign players who have already inked a deal to feature for Yanga next season are Patrick Sibomana (Rwanda), Lamine Moro (Ghana), Issa Bigirimana (Rwanda), Maybin Kalengo (Zambia) and goalie Farouk Shikalo (Kenya) who played well during a yesterday’s match against Shark. Others who played well yesterday are Abdulaziz Makame (Zanzibar), Ally Sonso (Lipuli FC) and veteran Mrisho Ngasa. The players registration had to adhere to TFF president Wallace Karia’s call he made to all four clubs to be careful in recruiting top quality players to ensure that Tanzania maintain the number of four teams in the continental club champions for many years to come.