GOLFERS from seven countries have confirmed to participate in this year’s Chief Executives Officers (CEOs), Retreat G olf tournament whose aim is to boost tourism in the Isles. Organised by the Sea Cliff Resort Golf Club of Z anzibar, the annual open golf event draws CEOs and diplomats from around the globe. This year’s event, according to the organizers, is scheduled to tee off on September 21 st at the par 7 2 course located very close to exotic shoreline of Indian Ocean . The 18 -hole tournament will be played under stable ford format, according to the event’s coordinator and Sea Cliff Club manager, Elias Soka. He said the tournament was earlier scheduled to tee off on July 29 this year, but they were forced to postpone it to September due to several reasons. He said preparation for the tourist classed event is on a top gear as they have already received 3 5 confirmations from CEO’s and business owners from seven countries. The countries include Kenya, Uganda, South Africa, Malawi, Comoros and Canada. Former Tanzania G olf U nion (TG U ), Administrator, Sophie Nyanjera who also was the former general manager of Dar es Salaam G ymkhana Club (DG C) and Sea Cliff Z anz ibar Club is among those confirmed from Kenya as said she can’t wait to join others at CEO’s battle. Last year’s ladies category overall winner, Anita Siwale who also serves as the V ice -President of Tanzania Ladies G olf U nion (TLG U ), is among the local entries while the men’s division winner from Z anzibar Musa Foum has also confirmed to defend his title. He said the doors are open to others wishing to compete and urge them to submit participation before the event’s tee off. “Please confirm your participation as we have only a few slots left, we welcome you all at our beautiful course,” he added. Soka noted that this year’s event will be among the best as the prizes for winners are pulsating and the course is immaculate. This year’s CEOs golf tournament has been heavily supported by Turkish Airline, Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Z anz ibar, STIHL, Auric Air Service Ltd, Lonagro Tanz ania, Z MMI, Z anz i Resort, Sea Cliff Hotel Dar es Salaam, Sea Cliff Court Hotel & Luxury Apartment, The Safari Blue, Zanzibar Parasailing, Cape Town Fish Market and The B utcher Shop Dar es Salaam. “In partnership with Auric Air Service Ltd, there will be special air fare on Auric Air for Dar/Z anz ibar and return while charter flight is also available,” explained Soka. The sole golf course in Zanzibar that was officially opened by Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein in February, 2015 was in 2018 won the best World’s B est Par 3 Golf Course Awards.