NOT many parents are aware that asthma is the most common chronic lung disease in children. Poorly controlled and undiagnosed asthma in young kids can result in numerous trips to hospitals, missed workdays for parents and suffering that most kids can’t express. Most children with asthma have symptoms before they turn five. The bronchial tubes–the passageways that allow air to enter and leave the lungs–in infants, toddlers and preschoolers are small and narrow. Head colds, chest colds and other illnesses can affect these airways, making them even smaller. In very young children, it may be hard for parents, and even doctors, to recognize when symptoms are caused by asthma. The signs of childhood asthma can range from a cough that lingers for days or weeks to sudden and scary breathing emergencies. Common signs parents should be on the lookout for include coughing (especially at night) and a wheezing or whistling sound. The signs also include trouble breathing or fast breathing that causes the skin around the ribs or neck to pull in tightly and frequent colds that settle in the chest. A child might have only one of these symptoms or several of them. Parents may think it is just a cold or even bronchitis. If the symptoms recur, that is an indication that the child might have asthma. Symptoms may get worse when the child is around asthma triggers such as smoke or allergens like pollen, pet dander or dust mites. Parents should tell a doctor if anyone in the family has asthma or allergies because both tend to run in families. If another family member has asthma or allergies, it is more likely that a child will have them. Asthma is typically diagnosed through a medical examination and a test that measures airflow in and out of the lungs. Diagnosing kids presents unique challenges, especially when they are very young. Children who are preschool age or younger may not be able to complete the airflow test, which requires blowing very hard into a tube. And infants and toddlers cannot describe how they feel. This makes it especially important for parents, other family members and caregivers to know the signs of asthma in kids and to be alert for symptoms. An allergist may perform skin or blood tests to see whether the child has allergies that trigger asthma symptoms. These tests can be done at any age. The allergist may also prescribe one or more asthma medicines. If the child gets better while taking the medicine, that can be a sign that the child’s symptoms are due to asthma. No parents want to see their child suffer. It is important that children with asthma receive proper treatment. With the right treatment, an ailing child can sleep through the night, avoid missing daycare or school and breathe more easily. A child’s treatment will depend on the severity and frequency of symptoms. To deal with childhood asthma, an allergist may prescribe two types of medicines: Any child who has asthma needs a quick-relief medicine to treat the noisy part of the disease– coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath or an asthma attack. This medicine (typically an inhaler), should always be with your child for use at the first sign of symptoms. Long-term control: This type of medicine is needed by some children to treat the quiet and dangerous part of asthma–the inﬂammation of the airways. This medication is taken daily to prevent asthma symptoms and attacks. Kids can take both medicines using an inhaler with a spacer, or a holding chamber, which helps to ensure that all the medication reaches the lungs. Another option is a nebulizer–a machine that includes compressor tubing and a mask to help deliver the medication. Asthma medicines are very safe and effective when used as di rected. Some studies have suggested that continued use of long-term control medicines can slightly slow growth in children, but it is vital to their health to treat their asthma symptoms. Asthma is one of the major non-communicable diseases. It is a chronic disease of the air passages of the lungs which inflames and narrows them. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) about 235 million people currently suffer from asthma. It is a common disease among children. Most asthma-related deaths occur in low income countries. The WHO says in a report released in December 2016 that there were 383,000 deaths due to asthma in 2015. The strongest risk factors for developing asthma are inhaled substances and particles that may provoke allergic reactions or irritate the airways. Medication can control asthma. Avoiding asthma triggers can also reduce the severity of asthma. Appropriate management of asthma can enable children to enjoy a good quality of life. Asthma is a major non-communicable disease characterized by recurrent attacks of breathlessness and wheezing, which vary in severity and frequency from person to person. Symptoms may occur several times in a day or week in affected individuals and for some children the problem becomes worse during physical activity or at night. During an asthma attack, the lining of the bronchial tubes swell, causing the airways to narrow. This unfortunate situation reduces the flow of air into and out of the lungs. Recurrent asthma symptoms frequently cause sleeplessness, daytime fatigue, reduced activity levels and school and work absenteeism. Asthma, however, has a relatively low fatality rate compared to other chronic diseases. Asthma is the most common non-communicable disease among children. Most deaths mainly occur in older adults. Asthma is a public health problem that occurs in all countries regardless of the level of development. However, most asthma-related deaths occur in low income countries. Asthma is often underdiagnosed and under-treated. It creates substantial burden to individuals and families and often restricts individuals’ activities for a lifetime. The main causes of asthma are not completely understood. The strongest risk factors for developing asthma are a combination of genetic predisposition with environmental exposure to inhaled substances and particles that may provoke allergic reactions. These substances include indoor allergens (for example, house dust mites in bedding, carpets and stuffed furniture, pollution and pet dander). Outdoor allergens include pollens and moulds. Other substances include tobacco smoke, chemical irritants and air pollution. Other triggers can include cold air, extreme emotional arousal such as anger or fear, and physical exercise. Even certain medications can trigger asthma. These include aspirin and other nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs. The drugs also include betablockers (which are used to treat high blood pressure, heart conditions and migraine). Urbanisation has been associated with an increase in asthma. But the exact nature of this relationship is unclear. Well-known allergens in Tanzania and other parts of Africa are house dust mite, cockroaches, cats and dog dander. A less known allergen is washing soap. Parental history, low physical activity and malnutrition have been described as risk factors. Other risk factors in this category are pesticides, insecticides, wood or kerosene heating, grass mats, mud, cow dung, smoking, and car and truck diesel exhaust. In the occupational settings latex sensitivity has been reported as risk factors. Adults at risk of asthma include poultry workers, hairdressers, gold miners, and wood choppers. Annual rainfall seems to have an influence on symptom presentation. Despite the risk factors mentioned above, there is no overall hypothesis to explain asthma causation in Africa. In one study, traditional healers in Dar es Salaam were convinced that asthma is caused by “ingestion of amniotic fluid during birth.” This is not true. Asthma in Africa does not seem to be different from other parts of the world. Assumed risk factors in Africa also include local flora such as Kikuyu grass, Makaore cherry, Tanganyika aningré as well as infection by Trichuris, Schistosoma, Ascaris, and hookworms ). Although asthma cannot be cured, appropriate management can control the disease and enable people to enjoy a good quality of life. Short-term medications are used to relieve symptoms. Inhaled corticosteroids control the progression of severe asthma. People with persistent symptoms must take long-term medication daily to control the underlying inflammation and prevent symptoms and exacerbations. Inadequate access to medicines is one of the critical reasons for the poor control of asthma in many settings. Medication is not the only way to control asthma. It is also important to avoid asthma triggersstimuli that irritate and inflame the airways. With medical support, each asthma patient must learn what triggers he or she should avoid. By comparison, it is imperative to mention here that more than 25 million Americans (including children), have asthma. Each year, many people with asthma require treatment in the emergency department with a portion requiring hospitalisations. Children younger than 18 years of age account for a large portion of emergency department visits and hospitalisations due to asthma exacerbations. As might be expected, asthma also accounts for more school absences than any other chronic illness. The magnitude of the impacts of asthma in children is illustrated by the fact that asthma accounts for more hospitalisations than any other chronic illness. Moreover, asthma causes children and adolescents to miss school and causes parents to miss days at work. spmwita@yahoo.com