SOUTHERN African Development Community (SADC member states have unanimously pushed for the lifting of prolonged sanctions on Zimbabwe by the international community. In their communique, which was presented in Dar es Salaam yesterday by SADC Executive Secretary Dr Stergomena Tax during the closure of the 39th SADC Ordinary Summit, the member states called for immediate lifting of the sanctions. “The summit has noted adverse impacts on the economy of Zimbabwe and the region at large and has expressed solidarity with the country, calling for the immediate lifting to facilitate the country’s socio-economic recovery,” said Dr Tax. She also disclosed that the SADC Chairperson President John Magufuli has been mandated to communicate with the partners who have imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe by expressing the SADC position. Among the resolutions reached include Burundi to submit a progress report on areas that it has been asked to rectify to meet eligible criteria of joining the block. Dr Tax revealed an overall decline in food production in the region for 2018 and 2019 crop seasons, with member states urged to implement multi-year response plan to tackle the recurrent food insecurities, drought and boost agricultural production. “The summit noted progress on the implementation of the SADC industrialisation strategy and approved the protocol on industry, which aims at promoting the development of diversified, innovative and global competitive industrial base. “There was also a great concern over the slow growth in intra-SADC trade levels and that the region continues to export raw materials to the rest of the world, thereby forfeiting the potential benefits of the resource endowments. To that effect, they agreed to accelerate the objectives of the SADC Industrialisation Strategy,” she said. She also noted that the summit has identified the gravity of security challenges, especially of terrorism activi- ties and transnational crimes and urged member states to prioritise the implementation of the SADC Regional Counter Terrorism Strategy and its Action Plan. According to her, member states have agreed to continue collaborating with international partners of the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) and consolidate efforts towards political and security stabilisation in the region. The resolution was adopted due to acts of extremism and terrorism in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) specifically in Beni. Dr Tax noted that in their resolutions, the heads of state further agreed to tackle acts of gravity of maritime security threats like piracy and maritime terrorism, drug trafficking and illegal handling and trafficking of weapons, which have raised concern. Other resolutions include directing SADC Secretariat in collaboration with the Parliamentary Forum Secretariat to carry out a comprehensive study on the model in which to develop a road map towards transformation of the SADC Parliamentary Forum to become the SADC Parliament. The summit has called for the unconditional implementation of all UN resolutions and African Union (AU) decisions on Western Sahara, which will lead to a positive, peaceful and permanent solution that meets the aspirations of the people of Western Sahara. Again, member states have expressed solidarity with Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic or Western Sahara (SADR) by urging African U nion Member States and other partners to ensure that the SADR is not excluded from participating in continental and international events. The secretariat was directed by the summit to notify the African U nion Commission to inform the government of Japan on the SADC position regarding the exclusion of SADR participation in the forthcoming meeting of TICAD in August 2019. Other issues are endorsement of the theme for the 39th SADC Summit, “A Conducive environment for inclusive and sustainable industrial development, increased Intra-regional trade and job creation” as the region’s industrialisation agenda. Member states were commended for humanitarian support while the SADC Secretariat was directed to expedite the operationalisation of the SADC Disaster Preparedness and Response Mechanism as part of the regional measure to respond to effects of climate change. The summit has also commended the out-going Chairperson of SADC, Namibian President Hage Geingob for demonstrating exemplary leadership during his tenure, President John Magufuli for assuming the Chairmanship and Tanzanians for successfully hosting the summit.