FORMER president of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi yesterday expressed his shock for being charged with criminal offences despite of providing loans of over 600m/-to facilitate different activities at the Federation. He told Resident Magistrate, Maira Kasonde at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam that between 2014 and 2016 he provided loans to the TFF, including 298,000 US dollars and other 340m/-, amounts which is in the record and other receipts that have not been presented in court. “I am a TFF family and as a leader and I donated this money for various programmes unconditionally. There was no security, no interest and no term of repayment. I was paid back in phases when TFF gets funds,” Malinzi said when giving his defence evidence in the fraud and money laundering trial he is facing. Led by seasoned Advocate Richard Rweyongeza, the ex-TFF boss disclosed that procedure of providing loans within the Federation, like any other sports association was normal. He said, it started way back in 1960’s, arguing that it is sad to note that he has become the first person to face criminal charges for providing loans. According to him, while he was TFF president he witnessed several other people, notably Ahmed Mgoyi, who was a member of the Federation’s Executive Committee and fifth prosecution witness, also providing loans to the TFF since 2014. He reminded the court that when giving his evidence as sixth prosecution witness, the TFF Director of Finance Daniel Msangi confirmed that Mgoyi was paid by the Federation a sum of 55m/-as refund to the loan he had provided. Malinzi accounted several achievements attained under his leadership as president and was disbursing his own funds to enable different sports programmes are implemented smoothly, as they were timely sensitive, especially where sponsors had delayed releasing money. He listed some of the achievements as establishments of women football league, development of women senior team, Twiga Stars and u-17 national team Serengeti Boys and enabling Taifa Stars to reach semifinals of the Southern Africa Football Associations (COSAFA), Cup competition. “It is during my time when Tanzania picked up 22 steps in FIFA rankings, something that has never happened to this day. My ambitious plans were, however, not successful as I was arrested on June 27, 2017, locked up in police cells for two days before being arraigned,” he said. In the trial, Malinzi is charged alongside ex-TFF Secretary General Mwesigwa Selestine, Accounts Officer Nsiande Mwanga and Clerk with Federation Flora Rauya with forgery, uttering false document, abused of position, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering.