DAR ES SALAAM Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda has called on residents to enrol in health insurance schemes to access health services whenever a need arises. Mr Makonda said medical care was expensive, especially in the private sector and could derail their finances. “It will become even tough if a person, who brings in the money, is now in a hospital bed. All this can be avoided by just paying a small annual fee, which will lessen your stress in case of medical emergency,” he explained. He made the remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday during an occasion to present to residents medical developments of Ashraf Emzia, a resident of Bukoba. Mr Makonda paid for medical costs of Mr Emzia, who had been diagnosed with sinonasal cancer. He was brought to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) for treatment after his case was aired on Clouds TV. He further explained that if Mr Emzia had health insurance receiving treatment would have been easier. The RC said Dar es Salaam residents paid 150,000/- to enrol in the Community Health Fund (CHF) that catered for treatment of six members of a single family. Earlier, MNH ear, nose and throat surgeon, Dr Edwin Liyombo, said the patient was brought to MNH three weeks ago with tumours of the nasal cavity and was later diagnosed with sinonasal cancer. Dr Liyombo said sinonasal cancer was a rare cancer of the nasal cavity and/or paranasal sinuses. On its signs and symptoms, he said in most cases, symptoms presented themselves at an advanced stage of the disease. They can include, but are not limited to, nosebleed, nasal obstruction, proptosis (displacement of the eye) vision changes and headache. The surgeon said they had successfully removed the tumour and he would be transferred to Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) for further treatment. Mr Emzia expressed his gratitude to the Dar es Salaam RC for his willingness to help him at the time he needed it most. “I had given up living, but after this surgery now I feel happy, hoping to be cured and go back to my normal activities,” he noted.