ACCEPTANCE AND WELCOMING SPEECH BY HON. PROF. PALAMAGAMBA JOHN AIDAN MWALUKO KABUDI (MP), MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND EAST AFRICA COOPERATION OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA AT THE OPENING OF THE CONCIL OF MINISTERS MEETING OF THE 39TH SUMMIT OF SADC HEADS OF STATE AND GOVERNMENT: 13TH AUGUST, 2019, DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA. Honourable Netumbo Nandi Naitwah (MP), Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Republic of Namibia and the outgoing chairperson of SADC Council of Ministers, Honourable Ministers, Dr. Stergomena LAWRENCE Tax, Executive Secretary of SADC, Dr Faraji, chair of Senior officials, Permanent Secretaries, Senior Officials, Your Excellencies Ambassadors and High Commissioners, Representatives of International Organizations, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is with a lot humility and gratitude to almighty. behalf of the Government and People of the United Republic of Tanzania after 16 years since we hosted such a meeting, to welcome you again to Dar es Salaam the haven of peace and in particular to the Session of Council of Minister of the 39th Ordinary Summit of Southern Africa Development Community (SADC). Indeed it is an honour and we are grateful to host this Summit after 16 Years. The Chairmanship we are assuming is a reminder to us Tanzanians and probably many of you of the modest role we played in the liberation struggle of Africa and the establishment of this august body which is today SADC founded on the principles of African unity and solidarity. This City and many other places in Tanzania (Nachingwea Kongwa, Mgagao, Mazimbu, Dakawa and Morogoro ) were a base for those fighting for liberation and therefore holds a special place in your hearts. We were fortunate to host the forces of many movements such as: the People‟s Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA); the African National Congress (ANC) and the Pan African Congress (PAC) from South Africa, the Mozambique Liberation Front (FRELIMO), the Zimbabwean African National Union (ZANU), the Zimbabwean African People’s Union (ZAPU), and the South West Africa People’s Organisation (SWAPO) from Namibia and many other Organizations. We further hosted liberation movements such as the OAU Liberation Committee which its Offices were not so far from where we are. So we are thrilled by your presence in Tanzania your Excellencies. This is an opportunity for some of you to trace your roots, refresh your memory on the liberation history, to visit the liberation historic sites and to pay tribute to those who died and were buried in Tanzania during the struggle. This year marks the 20th Anniversary since the demise of Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere. We remember the role of the late Father of the Nation, Mwl. Julius Kambarage Nyerere and other leaders of Frontline States for their contribution in our freedom struggle and quest for unity. We should therefore be reminded of those who made it possible for us to meet today as SADC. So, Honourable Ministers, we welcome you to this beautiful, historic and brotherly and sisterly country. We believe your stay in Tanzania will bring strengthen the bond and relationship that Tanzania has with your respective countries. In the words of Mwl. Nyerere “without unity there is no future for Africa” surely our unity in the SADC Region is our strength. KARIBUNI SANA Tanzania Honourable Ministers, Distinguished Guests , Ladies and Gentlemen, As we take over the Chairmanship of the SADC, on behalf of all Ministers, I would like to thank the Republic of Namibia under the able leadership of H. E. President Dr Hage G. Geingob for overseeing SADC activities successfully for the last one year. On your behalf also, I wish to thank the outgoing Chairperson of the Council, my dearest sister, Honorable Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for International Relations and Cooperation, Republic of Namibia for her tremendous job in steering our sessions and activities of SADC over the last one year. We have heard her submission on what SADC has been able to achieve for the past one year, we are committed to build up on your achievement while advancing our aspiration for this year. As the incoming Chair of the Council of Ministers, The United Republic of Tanzania assumes these responsibilities with great honor, humility and gratitude. We are aware of the responsibilities ahead of us and we are ready to fulfill them with your support and the support of the SADC Secretariat. Hon. Ministers and Distinguished Delegates; The theme for the 39th Ordinary Summit of SADC Heads of State and Government is “A Conducive Environment for Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development, Increased Intra-Regional Trade and Job Creation’’. Your Excellencies, apart from being in line with SADC Indusrtialization Stategy and Road Map 2015-2063, the theme fits well to a number of industrialization strategies in your respective countries. To Tanzania the theme fits well in our current industrialization drive, embedded in the country’s National Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP II) 2016/17–2020/21, themed „ Nurturing Industrialisation for Economic Transformation and Human Development” and other initiatives in place. As a Chair of the Council of Ministers, we are set to operationalize the theme with your assistance and cooperation. This Region needs industrial development for us to transform our economies, to enhance economic growth, to create more jobs and reduce poverty. We are aware no country in the world has reached high economic and social development without having developed and advanced industrial sector. But we are also mindful that no country has done that on its own without the help, cooperation and assistance of other countries. However such advanced industrial sector cannot be achieved if we in the SADC Region do not take deliberate efforts to create conducive environment in that regard. Our Government’s central role is the creation of an enabling policy and regulatory environment for accelerated industrialization. During the course of this year and in the course of operationalization of the theme we will emphasize on the need to access and improve our investment and business environment in the light of industrialization. According to the Ease of Doing Business Index released by the World Bank 2019, five SADC countries are in the top 10 African countries that have improved their way of doing business. The rest are still required to do more to attract business and investment. We have in place the SADC Industrialization Strategy and Roadmap; we need to access how far we have mainstreamed it in our specific initiatives. We still need to engage and dialogue with private sector in the light of their role for our sustainable industrial development. Your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, The very aim of our integration among others is to boost intra-regional trade. As I speak, Intra-Regional trade in SADC countries is low, below 20%, hindering member states from realizing their economic potentials. Over the past few days a lot has been said on factors that affect low trade volume in the SADC Region. Efforts to increase intra-regional trade through implementation of the SADC Protocol on Trade (2005) and the establishment of SADC Free trade area in 2008 must be hastened. Honourable Ministers, This meeting is taking place while there is a lot of pressure outside our region to form various kinds of free trade arrangements like COMESA-EAC-SADC Free Trade Area and African Continental Free Trade Area in which we all participate. These efforts are very important and they remind us to accelerate our integration processes to much the momentum in order to remain ahead and focused to the objectives of our integration as we have always been. If we do not hasten our processes, these changes happening outside will force us to run. I am aware that these issues have specific sectors to be considered, but since the Council is the heart for providing strategic direction on how SADC should approach and move forward with all the unfolding dynamics such as the rising unilateralism as opposed to multilateralism, I have no choice than speaking out now. Therefore, I hope the decisions/directives of this meeting will ensure our integration is not hampered by these dynamics of the world and our regional integration is moving forward to greater heights. Honourable Ministers, Before I conclude, I thank all of you for the messages of condolences for the tragic accident which occurred in Morogoro Region few days ago. You messages have given us hope and has shown how attached we are. In conclusion, allow me to thank the Permanent Secretaries, Senior Officials and staff of SADC Secretariat for the good work in preparing for this meeting. Their dedicated work has simplified our work today. I believe our meeting will be successful and at the end our deliberations will build on the success of the Summit. I once again I welcome you to Dar es Salaam and wish you successful engagement during this session. I want to assure you, I am your humble servant and I am ready to serve you. Merci bocoup Muito obligado Zikomo pambili Galyeboha I Thank You All for your kind attention