DISAPPEARING butterflies in Mara Tanzania BUTTERFLIES and grasshoppers have almost the same life cycle. They are more in wetlands than any other place. In Tanzania, Butterflies are disappearing from Mara River wetlands and local communities are missing migration of these beautiful insects. “Forests along the river banks have been badly damaged and for that reason insects are disappearing,” says Kanuni Kanuni, an environmental expert who works with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Tanzania at Mara River Basin office in Musoma. Mara River is a transboundary river which forms the integral part of the Serengeti- Masai Mara ecosystem in Tanzania and Kenya. Recently, Kenyan media reported that Mara River is drying up, blaming sand harvesting, deforestation and encroachment on Mau forest. Besides human activities, environmental experts in Kenya and Tanzania say climate change remains another threat on the river basin, covering 13,750 square kilometres. Intensive agriculture alongside the river banks continues to change the landscape and could be the main factor contributing to the disappearance of butterflies from the Mara River wetlands. “Even the insects’ points of birth (masalia) on the wetlands are disappearing,” Kanuni notes. Local villagers living alongside the river say they are now missing incredible migration of butterflies and grasshoppers. Like it is done in Uganda, local communities around Mara River basin eat grasshoppers too. “In the past we used to see swarms of butterflies moving from one point to another and this was one of the tourist attractions but they are no longer seen nowadays. You have to look for them but they are rarely seen, not even in small numbers,’’ says Mairi Magabe, a resident of Kwisaro village. Disappearing grasshoppers in Uganda In the not so distant past, it would have been hard to convince Josephine Kateeba, a housewife in Rwentobo, Rugando Rwampara district in southwestern Uganda to buy grasshoppers, let alone spending a whole year without eating some. For her family and several other homesteads in her community, grasshoppers were free. Women and children would catch them in bushes in November to December and April to June seasons. But things have changed now. “They are no more! We used to catch them in hills and plains. They do not come now,” notes Josephine, further narrating that, “we now buy them from towns where they use bright electric lights to attract and trap them.” Grasshoppers are a delicacy in Uganda. They are eaten by most people in central and western regions. In the past, they used to come in big numbers but now they are scarce and unpredictable. “I would trap over 100 sacks of grasshoppers on a good day. But I only trapped three sacks in April (this year), on my lucky day,” laments Gordon Kahimbise, a commercial grasshoppers trapper in Mbarara municipality, Uganda. The national environment agency– NEMA says the major reasons why southwestern region and other regions in Uganda no longer receive grasshoppers in big numbers is the change in climate, and wetlands’ destruction. “Grasshoppers normally lay eggs in lake shores. Their eggs need optimum warmth of the sand to hatch,” narrates Jeconious Musingwire, an environmental scientist and NEMA’s manager for southwestern Uganda. He says “intensive rains and high temperatures,” as a result of climate change, “are affecting the hatching process and the rate of multiplication,” of grasshoppers. But also dry spells and wetlands destruction affect the vegetation cover which grasshoppers depend on for growth. “Wetlands have a direct correlation with the maturity of grasshoppers. They hide there up to the time when they become nymphs so they can fly off and look for food elsewhere. If the vegetation in the neighborhood of lakeshores is destroyed, the life cycle of grasshoppers is also affected.” Wetlands covered 13 percent of Uganda’s total land in 1986. This has been reduced to just 9.8 percent now according to NEMA. Climate change includes change in the vegetation. A change in vegetation would greatly affect insects that survive on grass. Dr Devolent Tomas Mtui of Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute says tropical species are predicted to be especially sensitive to climate change because, “they are believed to have narrower ecological niches and elevational ranges.” A study published in the Biological Conservation shows that over 40 perfect of insect species are threatened worldwide with intensive agriculture and climate change cited to be the main contributing factors. Professor Kenneth Irvine of IHE Delft in the Netherlands warns that the situation may be critical in 2025. “Insects are important in the way the planet works and tells about the quality of water”, Prof Irvine said in February this year on part of his presentation during a media, science and water journalism training workshop attended by about 20 science journalists from Nile basin countries. What happens to communities when insects disappear? In Mara Region, disappearance of insects could compromise the health of Mara River, according to scientists. “Ecologically, insects are very important and are also used to assess the health of Mara River, very often, “Kanuni says. “For example we use dragonflies to assess the health of the river which is crucial to water flow. The presence of many insects symbolizes the health of the river”, he adds. In southwestern Uganda, disappearance of grasshoppers is already forcing communities to spend money to buy grasshoppers they never used to buy. A half-liter cup of grasshoppers cost 10,000 Uganda shillings in April, up from 3,000 shillings in December last year when they were in plenty. Some Ugandans substitute meat for insects during grasshopper seasons contributing to saving the earth from global warming but with disappearing grasshoppers now the opposite could be happening. The worst effect could be the disappearance of pollinators. Pollinators such as butterflies and bees guide the flowering of every plant. In search for nectar, pollinators transfer pollen from flower to flower. Pollen is essential for reproduction of most flowers. In Uganda for example, environmentalists are worried that in five years to come, production of coffee could be impaired due to scarcity of the bees. As a move to adapt to rising temperatures in their habitats, insects are having to move to higher altitudes. Other studies have suggested that tropical insects are moving away from the tropical region at a rate of about two miles annually. “In the long run we are predicting flower‐pollinating butterfly species have shifted their elevational ranges upslope,” notes Dr Mtui. Serengeti Wildlife Research Centre (SWRC), Director Dr Robert Fyumagwa says the insects in Mara Region might have shifted to other areas where a friendly climate favors their survival. “It is possible that the insects in the Mara River basin have not disappeared but rather moved to cold areas,” notes Dr Fyumagwa , citing an example of , “some butterflies (that), have migrated from Kihansi in Kilombero basin due to high temperatures.” However he says there is need for scientific study to back this. In Tanzania conservationists say introduction of land use plan in villages around conservation areas could help not only to promote sustainable conservation but also reduce human/wildlife conflicts. “Our plans include mobilizing local communities living near the Mara River to introduce land use plans,” says William Mwakilema, the Deputy Commissioner for Conservation and Business Development at Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA). “The health of Serengeti ecosystem relies on insects”, says Masegeri Tumbuya of Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS) at Serengeti office. “Ecologically, insects whether small or big are vital. The insects improve soil fertility and are helpful on the food web”, Tumbuya said. He also said that insects such as butterflies are also helpful on pollination. Mr Tumbuya blamed agriculture that involves usage of pesticides, saying it is harmful to insects. “The change of landscape can be the source of decline in the number of insects in the Mara River basin but butterflies have also been the victim of pesticides “, he said. * This work was produced as a result of a journalism grant provided by IHE Delft Global Partnership for Water and Development through Water Journalists Africa network.