TANZANIA is poised to become the regional aviation hub if the proposed construction of a centre of excellence is anything to go by. The centre construction, which is scheduled to begin early next year, will see people from the East African Community (EAC), Southern African Development Community (SADC) and other countries across the continent streaming into the country to enroll for top notch globally accredited aviation courses. The centre, which will sit on the 72,070 square kilometers of land, will be built behind the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority’s (TCAA) headquarters in Dar es Salaam. “The feasibility studies are still ongoing but the prospects of having the centre of excellence in the country are high,” disclosed TCCA’s act-ing Chief Instructor in Charge of Airport Operations Thamarat Salim Abeid. The construction cost of the centre, which will also house a modern library, will be financed by the government through the authority, which is charged with regulating air services and airport services as well as provision of air navigation services in Tanzania. The TCAA official who was speaking on the sidelines of the ongoing ‘Nane nane’ agricultural fair said the envisaged centre’s establishment follows remarkable progress that the authority’s training arm—the Civil Aviation Training Centre (CATC)—has registered. She said: “The training centre has al ready rolled out Approach Control Refresher courses per International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).” Ms Abeid further noted that TCAA had prepared a report and was due to send it to the United Nation’s specialised agency on the prospects of hosting the centre and rolling out the new courses. According to the official, TCAA was awaiting validation from ICAO, and once that is done, the centre will be offering standardised training packages, which will also be up for grab by other countries. She disclosed that TCAA was currently faced with challenges of meeting some IATA requirements, which include lack of centre of excellence. Detailing some of the achievements of CATC, which was established in June 1985, Ms Abeid said the centre generated a whopping 2bn/- revenues to government last fiscal year. The amount was generated from academic fees by students pursuing various courses at the centre located at Terminal one building of Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam. The prospects of hosting the aviation’s centre of excellence comes few days after President John Magufuli opened the airport’s terminal three building, which can handle six million passengers, annually.