TANZANIAN umpire Zulfikar Karim (57) has said he is ready for ‘big’ assignment of officiating the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) Basketball World Cup Competition. Karim, who is the former national team member, was picked by FIBA to be among eight technical delegates (commissars), who will oversee World Cup, scheduled to start from today to September 15th 2019 in Beijing, China. Speaking to the ‘Daily News of Saturday’ from India yesterday, Karim said that he can’t wait to make his debut in officiating the elite competition that draws top teams from around the World. Karim will be in charge of Group A matches and the first game will see Poland taking on Venezuela, before China lock horns with Ivory Coast today. “Everything is going on well so far, preparations are complete and as match official, I’m looking forward for the game to start,” he said. He said it is a big honour for him and country to earn a call as among officials to be in charge of matches at the World Cup stage. Karim will be the first Tanzanian and only East African official at the world stage. After earning the call last May, Karim said: “Honestly, I’m pleased for this achievement and can rightly say, it is a reward for being patience, faithful and hard working.” FIBA Secretary General Andeas Zagkilis in May confirmed that eight commissars, including two from Africa have been picked for the World Cup task. Apart from Tanzanian Karim another African official is Charles Saunders from South Africa. Other officials at the event are Fatima Da Silva (Brazil), Fernando Garzon (Spain), Mike Homsy (Canada), Norman Isaac (India), Andeas Papadopoulos (Greece) and Jiang An Zhou of China. Recently, FIBA changed the World Cup format, which will now involve 32 teams of which, five are from Africa. Competing teams are Angola, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Ivory Coast, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic and France. Others are German, Greece, Iran, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lithuania, Montenegro, New Zealand, Nigeria, Philippines, Poland, Puerto Rico, Russia, Senegal, Serbia, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, USA and Venezuela. The World Cup proceed after the World Congress that was held on Thursday and yesterday in which, the country was represented by Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) top officials including President Phares Magesa and his Vice-president Mboka Mwambusi. The Congress saw former Mali Sports Minister Hamane Niang elected new FIBA president for the 2019-2023 term. Niang was head of the FIBA Africa from 2014-2019. He will be the second African to lead FIBA after Senegalese Abdoulaye Seye Moreau (1998-2002).