PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein has opened a week-long farmers’ exhibition (Nanenane Day), saying the government is fully committed to seeing that all challenges facing the development of agriculture in the country are addressed. "Agriculture remains important to our country as regards job creation and improving people’s lives. We must support our farmers," said Dr Shein during the opening of the exhibition in Langoni-Kizimbani, at Dole Village, Unguja Magharib A' District. He told the gathering, which also attracted policy makers, local government and central government leaders led by Second Vice-President Seif Ali Iddi that, his government had already got a loan of $59m from Exim Bank of South Korea for irrigation farming on 1,524 hectares. He mentioned areas ear marked for the irrigation project as Makwararani, Mlemele in Pemba and Cheju, Kibokwa, Chaani, Kinyasini and Bumbwisudi on Unguja Island, where engineers from Kolon Company Korea has started working. The president said the focus is to produce more rice- Zanzi- bar's staple food, to minimize importation of rice from abroad and that the government is also working with United Arab Emirates (UAE)'s 'Khalifa Fund' to inject USD 20 million to fund five (2019/2024) years farming project. "We aim at increasing food production along with job creation for the youth and improve our economy," Dr Shein said, adding that the government had increased the budget for agriculture to 88.17bn/- this fiscal year (2019/20) from 62.62bn/- last year (2018/19). He promised to continue in- creasing the budget of agriculture annually to improve and increase production of crops, livestock, fishing and forest resources and that the move also reflected the implementation of CCM’s Elec- tion Manifesto 2015-2020, Mkuza III and the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Dr Shein said: "We have been encouraging the use of modern technology to meet our goals. The government has allocated 2.2bn/- to purchase two fishing boats with the capacity to carry 43 tonnes of fish and able to fish in deep sea. The fishing boats are from Sri Lanka and Maldives." He said the government had also spent 6bn/- on the revival of the Zanzibar Fishing Company (Zafico) for storage and fish pro- cessing. "We have also decided to use about 500m/- to construct a sardines drying factory to produce at least 10 tonnes per day." The President thanked Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for supporting the on going construction of a fish market in Malindi, Stone Town, expected to provide services to more than 6,500 people. The Fish Market Project is funded by the Zanzibar government (3.6bn/-) and Japan (18bn/-). Meanwhile, plans are un- derway to construct the first ever seaweed processing factory in Chamanangwe, Pemba. This is good news for seaweed farmers, who have been complaining about low price and lack of added value to boost sells. Dr Shein revealed the good news to seaweed farmers at the exhibition and said the government in collaboration with Ocean Fresh and Kapa Carageenan Nusantara from Indonesia was finalising the process to start the project. Acting Minister for Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, Dr Sira Mamboya, thanked the President for his personal efforts in the promotion of agriculture in the country. The ministry's Permanent Secretary, Ms Mariam Abdalla Sadalla, said Zanzibar started marking Nanenane in 2017 and participating groups, institutions and companies had increased from 83 when it started to 172 this year. Nanenane Day is marked on August 8 to recognise the impor- tant contribution of farmers to the national economy. Agricultural products are on display at the exhi- bition, along with farm technologies and innovations of numerous agricultural companies, but there are also food stands and market places.