TANZANIANS have been invited to grab investment opportunities in Great Lakes regions especially in hospitality industry. Traders on border regions, including Kagera, Geita, Mwanza and Kigoma should forge close links and make regular visits in neighbouring countries. Due to its strategic location, Kagera region is directly bordering three East African Community (EAC), countries- Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi while Kenya can also be reached through Lake Victoria. The region is also a gateway to South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), with a combined market of around 300 million. Tanzanians should make use of their abundant land and available labour force to create wealth for themselves and the country. President John Magufuli’s administration has embraced industrialization as part of his ideas to address unemployment among the youth in the country and this should be supported. Without an efficient industrial base, the country’s economy can hardly develop and create job opportunities. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa invited investors both local and foreign to invest in Kagera region by constructing medium and large processing industries due to its conducive environment and political tranquility. Equally, he challenged Tanzanians to grab investment opportunities in Great Lakes regions especially in hospitality industry. Premier Majaliwa made the remarks while opening Kagera Week exhibitions at Gymkhana Grounds in Bukoba Municipal Council. He noted that the upgrading of Ibanda, Rumanyika and Burigi Chato National Parks was a golden opportunity where Tanzanians can benefit through construction of five star hotels. The private sector through Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA), should have close links with their counterparts in Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), adding that the government was prepared to assist investors. “My office is open 24 hours. Any investor who encounters problems may contact me any time. Premier Majaliwa said over 95 per cent of the roads were tarmac while social services provision, including the construction of hospitals, health centres and dispensaries was in full swing. All this was aimed to afford attractive climate to investors. He noted that Kagera had conducive weather with plenty of rainfall ranging between 600 -2,000 millimiters. Kagera Region is a leading coffee producer of both robusta and Arabica coffee. It also has annual production of 2.3 million tons of bananas. This was another area for investment in the agriculture industry by constructing industries to process and add value to the crops, he hinted, he hinted. The Tanzania Ambassador to DRC, Lt Gen Paul Meela said investors and traders should exploit the abundant business openings in the region by constructing five star hotels and business centres. Available business opportunities in the DRC, with a population of around 81 million, include establishing industries for processing minerals, food commodities including maize, rice and bananas, industrial products such as tires, cement and iron bars and transportation. Kiswahili was another potential area where Tanzania can greatly benefit by sending qualified teachers in various schools and colleges. Ambassador Meela also challenged financial institutions including commercial banks toopen branches in DRC. He similarly challenged key sectors including immigration, customs and other departments on borders to have uniform in promoting trade ties with neighbuing business community. Tanzania’s Ambassador to Rwanda, Inspector of Police (IGP-rtd), Ernest Mangu, noted that the upgrading of Burigi Chato National Park was a golden opportunity where Tanzanians can benefit through construction of five star hotels. Rwanda has invested much in travel tourism sector but their two National Parks of Akagera and Namsanze did not have many wild animals compared to Tanzania. Rwanda is much advanced in the production of horticultural products with a big market in Europe and Asia and a big producer of milk and beef. Mr Mangu appealed to District Executive Directors (DEDs), to assist people by establishing border markets at Mutukula, Kabanga and Rusumo. It is sad to note that there was no hotel at Mutukula and Rusumo. This forces traders to cross to neighbouring countries. The reason why most Tanzania population is poor, is because they are living outside the money economy-producing and earning nothing. These leaders should be encouraging the local people to make money through commercial agriculture. In order to produce something you need four things, lands which is a natural resource, labour which we have in plenty, capital money and entrepreneurship , the spectacles to see where the opportunity is and turn it into profit. Tanzania’s acting Burundi Ambassador, Dr Edmund Kitokezi, welcomed Tanzanian investors to attend an Investors Forum which is expected to be held in the capital, Bujumbura at this month’s last weekend. The envoys were in Bukoba to attend a joint meeting convened by Kagera leaders to identify investment opportunities available in the area at the start of Kagera Week celebrations. While opening the meeting, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti explained that income per capita increased from 667,000/-during 2010 to 1,300,000/-last year while the regional per capita also increased from 1.3tril/- during 2010 to 4.9tril/-last year. Kagera shares borders with four countries namely Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya across Lake Victoria, but also is close to South Sudan and DRCwith a combined market of 300 million. This is a big asset to increase our trade relations. Other Tanzania’s Ambassadors who attended the meeting include Dr Aziz Mlima (Uganda) and Dr Pindi Chana (Kenya). Energy Ministers Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi expressed satisfaction on the implementation of the Regional Rusumo Falls Hydroelectric Project ((RRFHP), and are optimistic the project would be completed within period set for February 13, next year. Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani said the Extra Ordinary meeting Council of Ministers was happy with the project progress made so far, tasking the Board of Directors to closely supervise the contractor to complete the project on time. “We have been satisfied with the project implementation progress made so far. However, we have tasked the Board of Directors to closely supervise the contractor and ensure that he works day and night to ensure the project is completed on or before February 13, 2020. We rejected the contactor’s request for time extension,” he said. The Extra-Ordinary meeting Council of Ministers was held at Rusumo on Tanzania-Rwanda border in Kagera Region for fast tracking the implementation of the project. Apart from Dr Kalemani, other ministers included Rwandan Minister for Infrastructure, Ambassador Claver Gatete and Burundi Minister for Hydraulic, Energy and Mines, Mr Come Manirakiza. According to Dr Kalemani, the project implementation to-date stood at 47 per cent while completed works include power house (100 per cent), tunnel fitting (100 per cent) and switch yard (99 per cent). The blasting on tunnel had also achieved 47 per cent with 400 metres out of 703 metres already covered while 303 metres still remaining. The minister said completion of the project would enhance regional cooperation, peace building and support sustainable management of the Kagera River Basin, promote growth and poverty reduction and also manage environmental aspects. The project is financed by the World Bank and is estimated to cost about 340 million US dollars for the Power Plant while the African Development Bank financed about 128.6 million US dollars for the Transmission Lines. The project will increase 80 MW to the national grids of Rwanda, Tanzania and Burundi. The generated electricity will be shared equally among the three countries each benefitting about 26.6 MW directly connected to the national grid through the transmission lines. It is expected to benefit 1,146,000 people in the three countries: 5.4 per cent (520,000) in Burundi, 4 per cent (467,000) in Rwanda and 0.34 per cent (159,000) in Tanzania. Improved access to renewable clean energy will substitute thermal generation and lead to an increase in economic activity as well as private sector development in areas such as agriculture and related processing, water supply, health, education, commerce and tourism.