THE Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB), has called for new and innovative initiatives to serve smallholder farmers and revolutionalise agriculture in Southern African Development Community (SADC), region. At the 4th Annual SADC Industrialisation Week in Dar es Salaam recently, the TADB Managing Director, Mr Japhet Justine, said history shows that smallholder farmers have been bypassed by lenders for a long time and now deserved a new deal. He emphasised that there was a need to redress the perception because finance in agriculture wasa high risk undertaking, adding: “The role of the small guys (smallholders), is known and fundamental. There must be cash guarantee for de-risking lending to smallholder farmers by banks. It should be up to 50 percent of defaults and a fee of one percent per annum…the most affordable in the market.” Mr Justine also called for ‘grants or soft loans of hybrid’ assistance to the peasants, further suggesting that there must be goodwill in supportive plans, concepts, and ideas as well as initiatives to test the new innovative approaches, methods and services to them in rural areas. However, he cited cotton and coffee growers in Tanzania especially coffee growers in Kagera Region, as a case study of people who have received finance through cooperative unions and benefitted in the same way. The managing director noted that cotton growers were also supported to buy pesticides in 2018 and during this year’s farming season, some agro-processors also got support to purchase some raw materials. Elaborating, he called for the need to institute blended finance to the farmers, saying: “SPALF (equity-loan-grant) is specially designed to de-risk financing for investment in bulk steel silos and modern processing machines.” He further said that co-financing should be encouraged by TADB using its expertise and experience to allow room where partnership with other commercial banks expands to promote large-scale agri-industrial projects. The MD said that the sector is important for the SADC economy as well as in the whole of Africa in the contribution of their individual and bloc economy. He said that the sector accounts for 29 percent of the country’s GDP, and employs 65 percent of the nationals, where 65 percent of the envisioned industries would source their raw materials, besides 30 percent imports. Mr Justine said that over the last three years, TADB’s impact had been felt by producers of cereals, cash crops, livestock and fish farming.