THE government is in the process of reviewing the Gender Policy of 2010 to streamline the country’s vision 2025 of attaining a middle income economy through industrialization. This was disclosed by the Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, at an event to launch the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Publications, which included the SADC Regional Strategy on Women, Peace and Security (2018-2022). The launching took place in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday ahead of the 39th Summit of Head of State and Government which is expected to take place between August 17 and 18 at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC). Ms Mwalimu said they have taken the important step by recognizing that women are an important component in advancing the agenda of industrialization. “The government of Tanzania is aware that gender equality and women advancement is a matter of human rights and a necessary precondition to social justice and inclusive growth. Most importantly are issues related to peace and security,” said Ms Mwalimu. She noted that the country has taken several initiatives to ensure that peace and security is being maintained. Regarding the issue of equality and women empowerment, the Minister revealed that several steps have been taken to promote women. She noted that for the first time in the country’s history, the position of Vice President is being held by a woman, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan. She however disclosed that the percentage of women in parliament has increase from 22 percent (2005) to 37 percent. For female judges, in 2005 the number stood at 34 percent compared to the current 41 percent. Among other initiatives include coming up with a five year National Plan of Action to End Violence against Women and Children in 2016 which has advocated for the establishment of protection committees for women and children and police gender desks. “About 10,000 children and women protection committees have been formulated in different levels across the country. “The establishment of police gender desk has also seen 90,000 cases related to women and children being reported,” noted the minister. Ms Mwalimu also disclosed that the free education policy championed by President John Magufuli increased enrollment of primary school pupils from 8.2 million children (2015) to 10 million children in 2018. As for secondary education, the number of students enrolled rose from 1.7 million (2015) to 1.9 million in 2018. The minister said the move has contributed to the increase in female and male ratio of children who have access to primary and secondary school. She added that in 2017, the government took another important step to amend the Education Act which criminalizes girls who are in school to get married. “Gender and women empowerment will continue to be a top priority for the government of Tanzania,” she emphasized. SADC Gender Development Monitor of 2018, has a sub theme of “women economic empowerment and gender responsive budgeting” The Executive Director of Southern African Research and Documentation Centre (SARDC), Mr Munetsi Madakufamba said the objective of the 2018 edition of the Gender Monitor is to establish a central knowledge base to strengthen the capacity of governments of SADC Member States, stakeholders and partners to contribute to the economic empowerment of women. Mr Madakufamba said such is in recognition of women as a critical constituency in the socio-economic development of the region. He pointed out that SADC member states recognizes economic empowerment as being central to women emancipation and the attainment of gender equality. He noted further that the Gender Monitor establishes an evidence-based framework with which to track progress made by Member States in implementing the Revised Protocol on Gender and Development. The publication especially focuses on the extent to which financial resources, means of production and employment opportunities have been made accessible to women. He observed that several recommendations have been presented in the publication with the aim of assisting member states to strengthen their capacity. It also contributes to the economic empowerment of women to follow a system of effective gender responsive budgeting that does not discriminate against women as previously marginalized members of society.