OVER 2,000 exhibitors from different countries have so far confirmed participation to the Southern African Development Community’s (SADC) industrial week exhibition scheduled for launching today. President John Magufuli is expected to launch the fourth SADC exhibitions under the theme ‘Conducive Environment for Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development, Increased Intra-regional Trade and Job Creation,” at Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC) in Dar es Salaam. Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade Engineer Stella Manyanya said that until yesterday, at least 2,026 participants had confirmed to take part in the eagerly awaited regional exhibitions. She said at least 1,700 exhibitors operate their businesses in Tanzania while the remaining are from different countries. The five-day industrial week starts today and ends on August 9, this year. Engineer Manyanya said President Magufuli will grace the event, which is expected to offer opportunities to traders, investors and entrepreneurs from different member countries to exchange skills, technology and expertise in various areas. “The event is set for launching by President Magufuli and it will be closed by Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein,” she explained. The SADC Council of Ministers endorsed the convening of the annual SADC industrialisation week to intensify engagement with various partners, including the private sector, to accelerate the implementation of the SADC Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap 2015-2063. The industrialisation week is a public-private engagement platform that helps to foster new opportunities for intra-African trade and investment in the southern African region. SADC Secretariat, Ministry of Industry and Trade and the SADC Business Council are coorganising the event through the interim Secretariat—the NEPAD Business Foundation. The earmarked sectors that will participate to the 2019 industrialisation week include mineral beneficiation, agro processing, pharmaceuticals, fast moving consumer goods, infrastructure and logistics, light manufacturing, automotive and financial sector. Earlier, Senior Programme Officer Industrialisation and Competitiveness SADC Secretariat Dr Johansein Rutaihwa said the industrial week is expected to build coalition and understanding among stakeholders, spread the knowledge on the SADC’s industrial strategy and roadmap 2015-2063. He said that the exhibition week will also help to increase engagement in the industrialisation strategy at both national and regional levels. “SADC needs to get closer to private sector. It is obvious that the private sector is a key player in the regional economic growth,” he noted. Acting Director for Industrial development in the Ministry of Industry and Trade Leo Lyayuka said there will be seminars and workshops during the exhibition week with the purpose of imparting knowledge to wananchi.