TANZANIA Agricultural Development Bank (TADB), has called for forging of strategic partnerships within and between financial institutions in Southern African Development Community (SADC) in order to create sustainable agricultural chains in SADC. Addressing a meeting of dignitaries and experts attending the 4th Annual SADC Industrialisation Week in Dar es Salaam recently, the TADB Managing Director, Mr Japhet Justine, said it was important for the bloc to find alternative sources and new models of financing infrastructure development and industrialisation, arguing that SADC countries could successfully mobilise finds from pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds and high net worth individuals. But, he emphasised, partnerships were a key sustainable success. “Forging strategic partnerships, beyond the confines of national boundaries, will prove to be an invaluable approach to creating regionally sustainable agricultural chains. The TADB is more than open to holding discussions with DFIs and other financial institutions in the region on how we can forge these important partnerships,” Mr Justin told a moved audience. He had just told the gathering that despite being in operation for three years, TADB had disbursed loans from 2.3bn/- or a mere USD1.0 billion to 133.8bn/- or about a million US dollars. He said the importance of financing infrastructure development in Africa could not be overemphasized because it was to sustain economic growth, job creation and poverty reduction. But he told his audience that Africa’s infrastructure financing gap was conservatively estimated at USD 130 billion, yet it could be as high as USD 170 billion. “Available resources are sufficient to cover only about half the gap,” the MD lamented. He cautioned that official development assistance (ODA) and official aid were declining since 2013 and development partners were simply dishonoring pledged support. On the other hand, the MD said net foreign direct investments (FDI) were not only insufficient but declining since 2013. Mr Justin also argued that domestic resources were hard to come by because, he said, capacity to mobilise longterm funds to augment ODA and FDI “remains critically low --- as countries continue efforts to widen tax bases, develop capital markets and creating a match between tenors of savings and investment.” He campaigned for Africa’s small holder farmers, saying they deserved utmost attention because they were Africa’s creators of wealth by tilling the land, further arguing that Africa had the potential to become the world’s bread basket if Africa cared to ensure smallholder farmers increased productivity and maintained sustainable production.