THE Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA), yesterday said that the Southern African Development Community (SADC), has endless opportunities for exploiting its natural resources and growing consumer markets to unleash industrial development that will spearhead socio-economic transformation for poverty eradication. The EPZA Director General, Col (rtd), Joseph Simbakalia, made the remarks in a presentation at the ongoing 4th SADC industrialization week and exhibition at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre in Dar es Salaam. “The SADC region’s boundless opportunities is coupled with the demographic dividend of youthful labour necessary for building robust industrialization,” he said, adding that the youth in the region should be given guidance to become militant in agitating for participation in the development. Mr Simbakalia said socio-political stability was necessary to build business confidence and motivate long term investment which is vital for industrial development. He said the SADC region was the most politically coherent regional economic community with a history of solidarity forged during the armed liberation struggle that cemented a strong political basis and foundation for industrial development and cooperation. He also pointed out that the region had home grown regional integrated strategic plans with development cor- ridors and spatial development initiatives necessary for the establishment of a regional value chain. The SADC region, he pointed out, should thus apply a collective regional approach to engage with China in development cooperation to establish synergy between China Belt and Road Initiative and the SADC development corridors as well as Spatial Development Initiatives. “SADC should capture the time window opportunity of 4th global industrial relocation out of China and elsewhere,” he noted. The EPZA boss further said that the region should exploit megatrends in production of new products and equipment which require high value minerals, namely coltan, cobalt and helium gas, to be used in the state of the art The General Manager with the dz card Africa Limited, Mr Christiaan Wielenga, said his company. which is located in the Ben- jamin William Mkapa Special Economic Zone, was planning to expand its footprint to the SADC market to provide end to end smart card solutions. “This is an opportunity for our company to capitalize and capture the SADC market with over 160 million people to reach them with our products that offer solutions to various day-day payments,” he said, adding: “Our company has built an outstanding global reputa- tion for manufacturing smart cards and high-end security products.