SOLAR developers have been urged to come up with systems and business models that are affordable, especially to low income earners and those in remote rural areas in the country. High connection fees and tariffs charged to end users have been singled out as hindrances to most Tanzanians in adopting renewable energy technologies. The remarks were made in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy, Dr Hamisi Mwinyimvua, who was representing the Minister of Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani during an event to inaugurate hybrid solar power at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) offices. Dr Mwinyimvua said the ministry of energy has already requested Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), to institute the process of regulating renewable energy small projects so that connections fees are aligned to the current government rate of 27,000/-. “The authority also works on a better way to regulate tariffs to make sure they are comparable to the government implemented projects, the goal is to make sure those in villages and low income earners can afford the services,” he noted. He said the government was committed to facilitating the development of renewable energy, by putting in place relevant frameworks that respond to the development of the sub sector. Expounding further, he said coordination among stakeholders will be enhanced, including involvement of the private sector, development partners and others, in which the government is working with the European Union to prepare Energy Efficiency Strategy. “It is worth noting that the increased use of renewable energy, such as solar technologies, will not only cushion us from the adverse effects of climate change, but can also act as a catalyst for enhancing development through the promotion of better conditions for women to access better education and health services, improved access to information and improved productivity,” he remarked. The 227 kWp system is designed to offset 70 per cent of power from the grid and the currently installed carbon-intensive generators with renewable energy from the sun. It is expected to save 34,618 US dollarsannually, recovering the investment cost in 12 years. The installation of the Hybrid Solar System took 3 months, from Feb 2019 to May 2019. The installation work was done by Enviroearth and their local partner, Baraka Solar. Earlier, UNDP Acting Resident Representative, Ms Verity Nyagah said the system will reduce the cost of energy consumption, en- sure reliable energy supply, eliminate noise pollution from generators, contribute to protecting the environment and more importantly, enhancebusinesscontinuity at the UN House. “The successful completion of this Hybrid Solar System at the UN House sets a framework for other organisations, both public and private, to follow suit, thus helping the country to play a key role in localizing the Sustainable Energy for ALL (SE4ALL), initiative as well as implementing the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC), to address climate change in Tanzania,” she said. Ms Nyagah said if re- sources allow, they plan to install similar solar plants in other places across Tanzania, focusing on remote rural areas to address energy poverty. Baraka Solar Director of Operations, Mr Yudathade Assenga, said renewable energy share in the electrification rate is less than 5 per cent, and therefore to elevate its portfolio, initiatives such as the solar technology are much needed. “Deployment of renew- able energy plays a great role toward increased energy generation, especially in remote rural areas,” he said.