NATIONAL Bank of Commerce (NBC) plans to use agency banking popular as wakala to expand countrywide and deepen financial inclusion, the Managing Director Theobald Sabi has said. Speaking during a seminar for Dar es Salaam based NBC Wakala agents, he said they would leverage on the agency banking reach out to more unbanked population in the country. He said agency banking had helped to connect banks and was driving financial inclusion by increasing banking outreach to the un-banked and under-served population. Mr Sabi further said NBC Wakala, as an extension of NBC, plays a vital and indeed strategic role in delivering financial services to customers wherever they are. “Therefore it is important for our agents to know more about our products and services as they are an extension of our bank,” he said. The seminar brought together over 100 agents who participated in product knowledge, customer service, fraud mitigation, personal security, digital services, account opening and available credit facilities subjects presented by senior bank officials. NBC has over 600 agents in Dar es Salaam. The NBC Wakala agents got a chance to understand the various products and services offered by the bank including the application of innovative digital solutions and the Government Electronic Payment Gateway (GePG) compliance. NBC Point of Sale (POS) machines at NBC Wakala Agents are GePG compliant allowing Tanzanians to settle government dues and levies at any appointed NBC Wakala Agent. The NBC Head of Alternative Channels and Digital Transformation, Deogratius Mosha, said, NBC Wakala Agency, which was launched in June 2018, ha s over 1800 a ctive agents. The deployment of NBC Wakala across the country has proved effective in delivering extended services to our customers and clients. NBC Wakala agency also support the governments call to move financial services to the majority of Tanzanian citizens who have no access to the branch network. “One of the key issues that NBC is looking into is the empowerment of NBC Wakala Agents to provide some banking services to customers like, collection of banking information, exchange rate information, instant account opening and insurance sales. Currently all these services are only available at NBC branches,” he said. “This seminar is valuable to NBC as it enabled us to receive feedback and also to better understand what is happening in NBC Wakala work place. The information we have received will greatly assist us on the provision of the required banking knowledge and customer service skills for our agents in the near future,” he said. One of the agent who attended the seminar, Tumaini Bureta from Mikocheni, Dar es Salaam hailed the bank by saying he was better equipped with banking knowledge and other processes and procedures. “It was my first time to attend such a knowledge sharing and I am confident I will improve my services to my customers and deliver the expected results for myself and the bank,” he said.