TANZANIAN state lawyers have joined their South African counterparts in the battle for the release of Air Tanzania Company Limited’s (ATCL) aircraft in Johannesburg. Attorney General (AG) Prof Adelardus Kilangi told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the lawyers have already studied the ruling of the South African court and filed the necessary documents in the court to oppose the verdict. Airbus 220-300 was last weekend seized in Johannesburg when readying for return flight to Dar es Salaam. “Our team has already prepared and filed to court the necessary legal documents for adjudication on the matter… we hope the case will be heard and determined anytime, probably within three days to come,” Professor Kilangi said. He also detailed that there were other measures the government, through the legal team of state lawyers in South Africa, was working on without involving legal and court process in attempt to resolve the matter amicably. The AG statement comes hardly a day after the government’s Chief Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbasi stated that the issue will be resolved and the seized plane released soon. Speaking during an interview with national television— Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC)—Dr Abbasi said there was unclear understanding of the issue among some members of the public. He said many people associate the confiscation with debts relating to ATCL and South African Airways (SAA) failed partnership. “In fact, our plane has been seized following a court case that existed since 1980s between the South African national, Hermanus Steyn and the government,” Dr Abbasi clarified. Mr Steyn had lived in Tanzania and happened to possess huge wealth, including plantations, livestock and other riches that were then nationalised. According to Dr Abbasi, Steyn accepted the nationalisation of his properties but subject to compensation. In 1990s, he reached an agreement with the government over amount to be paid as compensation, according to Dr Abbasi, saying the government then paid huge part of the debt. Therefore, what he has now done in South African court is to seek enforcement of foreign arbitration award for implementation of payment of the remaining amount. “These are normal legal procedures. We, Tanzania, as chair of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), respect the legal systems. But, we assure Tanzanians that our aircraft will come back, though I can’t predict the date,” he stated. The government spokesperson said the remaining six planes of the ATCL were all safe except the Airbus in South Africa. Dr Abbasi explained that though the court ruled on the enforcement of foreign arbitration, the main case is not yet heard on whether the government will bow to his demand or not. Dr Abbasi said Steyn chose to be heard by the court in the absence of the Tanzanian government and that Tanzanian lawyers were currently at work to ensure that the aircraft was brought back to the country.