THE Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Tanzania has appealed to Confucius Institute and Chinese community in Tanzania to attend Kiswahili language classes in the country to enable them understand the language and communicate better. Making the appeal yesterday at an event organised in Dar es Salaam to bid farewell to some Tanzanian students, who got Chinese Government 2019 scholarship to study in the Asian country, the Chinese Ambassador in Tanzania Ms Wang Ke, further said it was only the language that would ensure them better communication and consultations. She said that in the season, a total of 259 Tanzania students are expected to fly to her country for studies in September this year. The call comes a few days after the just ended 39th Ordinary Summit of Southern African Development Community (SADC) Heads of State and Government meeting held in Dar es Salaam and officially endorsing Kiswahili as the regional group fourth official language. “With the popularisation of Kiswahili in East and South regions of Africa and increasing exchanges in trade, tourism, and people to people contact between China and Africa, more Kiswahili talents are needed,” she said. According to her, there are four Universities in China which are offering Kiswahili language courses, and producing nearly 20 graduates every year. Ambassador Wang said the language is an important tool for cross-culture communication, further advising Tanzanian youth to also learn Chinese language to pave ways of strengthening deeper friendship between China and Tanzania. However, she urged the Tanzanians who go for studies in China to be good ambassadors and promote economic opportunities available in Tanzania. She urged them to positively use any opportunity at their disposal for the benefit of both the countries. Earlier Ambassador Wang explained that up to now, China has provided about 1, 900 government scholarships and vocational training programmes to some 6,100 Tanzanians to study in China. She said the number of scholarship this year has increased from 120 to 159 in the last year. “With a current enrolment of over 5, 600 Tanzanian students in China, there are 690 Tanzanian students on Chinese Government scholarships and others on self-expenses,” she said. Presiding over, the Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, requested China to introduce a local special training for engineers of energy in order to train more domestic engineers in line with the government’s efforts to invest in the sector.