AFTER reading the topic of my today’s article, you may be eagerly waiting to hear about the referred ‘two ways’ to use your money. You may be thinking that I am going to pen down probably the best two ways to use your money effectively. Today, since the expectations are very high let me dampen them a bit by stating that the ‘two ways’ are nothing new but are the ones which almost each one of you knows. If everybody knows about the referred ‘two ways’, then why am I harping on them so much? The pertinent reason being that it is not important to know what these ‘two ways’ are, but what is more important is how best these ways can be applied effectively in order to manage your money matters in a judicious manner. Up to now I was maintaining a high level of secrecy thus forcing a lot of guess work on your part. But the wait has to end somewhere and now comes the obvious two ways, which you are waiting to hear so eagerly. Yes, there are effectively two ways you can use your money. One is to “spend it”, and the other one is to “save it”. I am sure some of you may be laughing on hearing the so called ‘two ways’. But on a serious note let me emphasize that out of the stated two ways-most people opt for the former [i.e. spending], rather than the later [i.e. saving]. Why do people behave this way? It is because you get instant gratification/ pleasure when you spend, whereas in case of saving, there is a delayed gratification. When you spend your money to buy a new watch, mobile phone or designer clothes, you get instant happiness. Conversely, if you decide to invest this money, you get happiness later i.e. when your investment would grow to reap benefits. Thus, instant gratification is the habit of wanting to enjoy now and not having the patience to wait for future benefits. This theory of ‘instant gratification’ not only applies to money matters, but on so many elements of our day-to-day life. What do you get after taking a drug or after drinking a bottle of whisky? Nothing but ‘instant pleasure’ -which not only is temporary but harmful and with no returns. So why do you spend your hard earned money on things where there are no ‘returns’? Remember, instant gratification is the habit of wanting to enjoy now and not having the patience to wait for future benefits. People who constantly desire instant gratification rarely have the discipline to save and invest their money. They are often in debt and will never be wealthy. Do you want your life to be that way i.e. “always in debt and never be wealthy?” I know your answer will be a unanimous “NO”. If there is unanimity in answering this question, why is there no unanimity in accepting the fact that ‘savings & investment’ is an integral part of your money matters and thus should be practiced by all and sundry– whatsoever be the conditions. People, who have the ‘discipline’ and ‘will’ to delay their gratification/pleasure will surely be successful to save, invest and watch their money to work for them. These people will not indulge or spend their money impulsively on things that will not bring them future benefits. Rather, they will spend their money wisely and with an imbedded element of ‘savings & investment’. So as I said in the beginning, it is not important to know the ‘two ways’ to use your money but what is important is how effectively these ways can be applied to get the best out of any situation. I agree, along with ‘savings’, spending is also an integral part of our day-today transactions, but often it is observed that we sacrifice ‘savings’ at the cost of reckless spending. Are you ready to turn this scenario upside down? I leave the choice squarely on you. Cheers!!!