Dr Magufuli, speaking at the opening of the Uongozi Institute and former President Benjamin Mkapa’s office jointly organised edition of the African Leadership Forum in Dar es Salaam, decried dependency syndrome, political instability and lack of innovation as the major impediments of Africa’s development. President Magufuli argued that the African continent will achieve its economic prosperity through focusing on proper exploitation of available natural resources. He claimed that colonial hangover has seriously affectedAfrica, including leaders, leading to the so called neocolonialism with its roots being strengthened today. According to Dr Magufuli, Africans should never expect people who colonised them to turn overnight and become their economic liberators. “The African continent is enormously endowed with natural resources like land, gas, energy, wild animals and forests, among others, with about 30 per cent of arable land in the world found in Africa. “What we Africans need is to properly supervise our natural resources, which will help us to attain economic revolution…we have been deceiving ourselves that money is the source of development and that is why African countries have been moving from country to country begging. 40 years,” said retired President Mkapa. He quoted Namibian President Hage Geingob who, at the just concluded 39th Southern African Development Community (SADC) Summit in Dar es Salaam, noted that the devastating effects of tropical cyclone Idai and Keneth, which hit countries, including Comoros, Madagascar, Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe, caused deaths and displacement of many people. Former South African President Thabo Mbeki cited Lake Chad in Chad, which is reported to have shrunk by nine-tenths due to climate change, population growth and irrigation. He argued that proper public education and sensitisation on land and natural resource management is key to overcoming the predicament in their specific contexts Former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo revealed that women in rural Nigeria have been using charcoal and firewood for cooking, saying the problem will continue because there is no alternative means for them. “We need to think outside the box and come up with alternative means of cooking that will suffice the needs of these people at any time of the day,” he said. He called for research and development as practical approach to deal with the problem that is haunting the African continent. Madagascan former President Hery Rajaonarimampianina observed that the country was witnessing a degradation of the forest and sea, saying over 500 million US dollars is lost to illegal fishing. He argued that the colossal amount of money could have been used to fund the country’s 350 million US dollar development project. “Seventy five per cent of people rely on natural resources but they are also perpetrators of land degradation...we need to strike a balance between proper solution while considering people’s needs,” he said. Infotech Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ali Mufuruki keenly noted that solutions should be based on the country’s specific context. Mr Mufuruki disclosed that leaders from the African continent were quick to participate on world forums and meetings, sidelining issues which are critical to the continent. “We are not committed enough to run our own institutions, African Union is struggling with funding, there are 1,400 resolutions that have never been implemented...” Mr Mufuruki noted with concern. Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, former Tanzania President Dr Jakaya Kikwete, former Somalia President and other dignitaries attended the forum.