…As ATCL aircraft is impounded at Oliver Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South Africa THE government has directed the Attorney General (AG)'s Office to follow up a government plane imponded in South Africa. The aircraft is leased to the national flag carrier, Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). The directive follows a statement issued to members of the public on Friday evening by the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Work, Transport and Communications (Transport), Dr Leornard Chamuriho, which noted that the Airbus 220-300 was impounded at Oliver Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South Africa, following a court order. The aircraft, which had 83 passengers on board, was supposed to fly from Johannesburg to Dar es Salaam. It was further noted in the statement that Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Isaac Kamwelwe was seeking the apology of the travellers, who were to use the aircraft. The statement also showed that reports on the impounded aircraft were obtained from the Tanzania High Commissioner in South Africa, who had said the plane was being held due to an order issued by the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. When this paper sought for further clarification from the minister on the issue, Mr Kamwelwe said it involved South Africa’s court order, therefore, it was clear the matter had to be handled legally. As a representative of the government he could not directly interfere with the court decision. On the reasons for impounding the aircraft, the minister maintained that he was not commenting on anything at the moment for it was among the issues that the Attorney General had been asked to look into. "The government after receiving the information, immediately directed the AG's Office to closely follow up the matter and communicate what is going on for us to tell the public," he noted. According to him, what he said was all for now and there is no further development. He explained that the government was going to give a statement later, but for the time being, the issue was being handled by the legal counsel. ATCL Managing Director (MD) Ladislaus Matindi noted that they were 83 passengers on board and the airline had already made arrangements for them to return safely to Tanzania via other companies. He revealed that the move required certain arrangements to be taken before they could finally reach their destinations. The DG noted that the bottom-line was that all travellers arrived at their destinations safely and on time. For his part, the Government Spokesperson and the Director of Tanzania Information Services, Dr Hassan Abbas, urged people to be calm, while the matter was being handled by AG. Since assuming office, President John Magufuli has vowed to revive the national flag carrier. The government has invested heavily in ATCL to enable it operate efficiently. Currently, the company operates seven planes. With improved fleet, ATCL is confident to regain its position as a serious competitor in the air transport market. The ongoing ATCL fleet and network expansion programme includes destinations in Africa, Europe, Asia, and the US.