GAMING sector stakeholders yesterday met to deliberate on avoidance of adverse impact of irresponsible gambling as the country’s gaming industry booms, recording over 90bn/- in the last fiscal year. The Gaming Board of Tanzania (GBT) says in its report that as of last June, 95bn/- direct income tax was accrued from gaming activities. At the training that GBT, shiKana Law Group and Gaming Laboratories International (GLI) in South Africa organised jointly, stakeholders harmoniously concurred that ‘gaming responsibly’ concept aims at not killing the industry but making it sustainable and protecting the community against troubles. GBT Managing Director James Mbalwe said most of gamblers are not aware of the pertinent information regarding the industry although the board has been working hard to raise public awareness on the bad effects. He told the meeting participants that the current Gaming Act of 2003 doesn’t allow persons under the age of 18 to participate in gambling but GBT wants the legislation to give more room to accommodate gambling addicts who are seeking self-exclusion. Self-exclusion, according to Gambling Helpline Online, is a voluntary process where a person with “gambling concern excludes themselves from areas of specific gambling venues, or online providers. It can provide a concrete tool to help keep you safe from excessive gambling.” On the self-exclusion, he said there are people who are seeking how they can ban themselves from gambling but the Gaming Act is mute on the issue. The director said, “We have limited gambling advertisements… we don’t want to have a society that treats gambling as a source of income or employment. “We took measures not because gambling was at a threshold point but advertisements were more excessive than gambling itself. We sat down with stakeholders and agreed about these adverts and their contents,” the GBT managing director added. He said Tanzania has not been affected much by gambling activities comparing with neighbouring countries but the board seeks to educate the community and other stakeholders to be responsible. The invited GLI (Africa) General Manager, Mr Devon Dalbock said responsible gaming focuses on the seven areas, including vulnerable gambler and children protection, privacy of gamblers, payment protection, money laundering and related criminal issues surrounding the gaming industry. Mr Dalbock emphasised that ethic is a key issue for consideration in the gaming and the market should be “responsible.” The expert said the growing of technology and its uses especially mobile phones and internet have caused the gaming industry to grow exponentially in the country. He said it easy to apply the concept of responsible gaming through monitoring gamblers’ behaviour, amount of money and time they spend per day only if there is mechanism to register players. “If the gambler logs in before play, it will be easy to limit them to avoid negative consequences of gambling in the society,” he added. Meanwhile, shiKana Law Group founder Amne Sued said the training focused on what responsible gaming is all about and legislations surrounding the industry and how stakeholders can benefit from gaming. Tanzania Sports Betting Association (TSBA) Chairman Jimmy Keneth said its members are engaging themselves in developing the sector, including sponsoring Mainland Premier League clubs as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility.