THE Government yesterday announced that it has released nearly 50bn/-this year to empower youth, women and people living with disabilities countrywide. Making the revelation here, the Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo in the process urged the youth to take a lead in tapping opportunities being created by the government. “It is sad that despite the government’s efforts, there are only a limited number of young people applying for such funds from the Councils... even those applying are slow in repaying the debt in comparison to women,” he further said at a conference attended by about 500 young people drawn from Mainland Tanzania and the Island. The government merged empowerment funds which were mainly for supporting youth, women, and people living with disabilities with other needy groups, by further compelling the Councils to allocate at least 4 percent of their revenues to empower them. In the collection, another 4 percent would be meant for women and two percent for people living with disabilities. The decision was a result of 2016/17 financial audit by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), whose findings revealed that over 37bn/- that was allocated to the key group, but was ‘abused’ by the executives. Speaking at the International Youth Day organized by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the minister said that some Councils had however not released the money for the group. “I have issued a seven day ultimatum to District Executives to explain why they should not be held accountable... we want the youth to fully participate in the industrial economy,” noted Mr Jafo. The Minister wondered and became concerned that the youth were also taking a backseat position in supporting products and services produced by fellow entrepreneurs, instead of taking the lead. However, on her side UNFPA’s Country Representative, Jacqueline Mahon reaffirmed the UN’s commitment in supporting the government’s efforts to improve the quality of education in the country. She said that would ensure that the youth are empowered and make informed choices, which lead to health and productive lives. “We must all continue collectively and collaboratively to invest in scientific and technological innovation to improve the tools we have and tackle challenges we face,” she said adding; “we must tap into creativity of the young people.” According to the UN official, the youth are active champions of inclusive and accessible education and are capable of making changes, becoming innovators and entrepreneurs, who can create better solutions and respond to their challenges.