This is the city which is not only recovering and improving but on the move. In all fairness, it would be difficult to disp rove a certainty that our new city is now, by and large, among the cities of the future. This said however, I know the journey is not finished yet. In my view, it is the continued effort to ensure p rop er p lanning of the city which should remain key to sustainable Dodoma. As a Dodoma resident with some ex p erience of a number of well-p lanned cities in some p arts of the world, I look forward to seeing Dodoma that is not crowded, disconnected, and costly. And I am op timistic that the future is by all means bright and bubbly. I am glad progress towards achieving this goal is not only p romising, but steady, sound and solid. What we are currently witnessing here in Dodoma is President John Magufuli’s government decisions, as it is across the country, turning from speeches and pap ers to brick and concrete, water and energy, p rimary education and healthcare, to housing, and more sp ecifically roads. And the last item–Dodoma roads is my interest today. This p iece charts on the Dodoma outer ring road which other p eop le, dep ending on where you are, would call it a belt-line, beltway, circumferential highway, loop or orbital. In my case, I am briefly looking at the 110.2km length road which, when completed, will encircle our new cap ital Dodoma. My take is this; The Outer R ing R oad is a vital facility for our new cap ital. Well, the concep t of ring roads in cities is trending rap idly. The belief and its p ractical reality that ring roads are used to decongest the city from heavy traffics that is of no imp ortance or have no business in the interior areas of the city, is also p art and p arcel of the Dodoma p lan. By planning to have the ring road available and functional, it means we, Tanzanians and other stakeholders can be assured that Dodoma is or will be ready to imp rove safety and road network connectivity, reduce travel time by avoiding the current few signalised intersections like the one near the famous C hako Ni C hako. The good news is; The R ing R oad will increase freight efficiencies. But how practical is our submission above? Well, when the ring road is fully op erational, it is exp ected that heavy vehicles entering Dodoma City from the four main trunk roads will be diverted into it either to byp ass Dodoma completely or to transfer to another radial route to suite their eventual destination and in doing so avoid the town centre. This is good news. Eq ually imp ortant there is also another critical p roblem which the Dodoma outer ring road will address. Unfortunately, exp erience has shown that households in most African cities find it difficult to settle outside central business districts, as the lack of p aved roads makes commuting from the p erip hery imp ractical. By offering an alternate route around the city for drivers who do not need to stop in the city core is what the ring road will do for us here in Dodoma. This is a vital facility for our new cap ital. However, with all the good news about Dodoma Outer R ing R oad, we remain with yet another big challenge. It is the fate of p edestrians for these makes an imp ortant segment of the city community. The world would say, there may be a magnificent Dodoma ring road, but as long as the p edestrian is not the king of the street, the city of Dodoma will not be sustainable. Let me unpack this argument. High mobility and accessibility is essential for a favourable social and economic develop ment in the Dodoma city, op en the strategically economically areas of Bihawana, Matumbulu and Z uz u, which the centres for businesses will grow including improved agriculture. Pedestrians are p art of the agenda because some of them would be coming from neighbouring regions of Manyara to the north, the Singida to the west, and the Iringa to the south, and the Morogoro to the southeast, regions which will also benefit from this network. This we say because while the ring road shall p rovide a seamless connection between these regions, hence offer an increased social value, including p arameters of economic benefits for the entire society, it is the p edestrian. And the wisdom says it all; there is no logic that can be sup erimp osed on the city; p eop le make it, and it is to them, not buildings, that we must fit our p lans. Gladly though, I see the ring road foreshadowing the future p rosp ects too. We know change is unstop p able. We are not there yet but we are expecting, in not a long time to come, the growing volumes and speed of international trade which will require bigger and more efficient, in our case, feeder roads, but also airp orts and feeder rails as we eagerly wait for the Standard Gauge railway. Together with the ring road which, among other things, is meant to deal with the p ossible current and future chaos of traffic congestion, I would urge the leadership , in the sp irit of ring road vitality, to also ensure that our city will not be characterised by clogged gutters and other roads filled with garbage. This is a cautionary message. We do not want this condition to happ en unless it is just a bad dream. I am glad though that Dodoma is also more and more becoming a clean city. We wish to congratulate those who are always busy sweeping the roads and taking away the dirt.We hop e more will be done to ensure that an efficient garbage collection service sup p orts the cleaning efforts. By so doing our city will be, among so many other good things, a p referred destination for many organiz ers of national and international conferences at the city centre as well as in three satellite towns earmarked at Veyula, Nala and K ikombo near Ihumwa. So well done fifth government and keep the pace steady, secure and balanced for the p urp ose of our cap ital p rogress. Dodoma is now at an impressive stage of transformation and in the near future we shall witness rap id wealth generation. We want our city to be a source and not a hindrance to our p rosp erity and social integration. And the role of Dodoma outer ring road together with other efficient infrastructures shall remain the tools for cap ital develop ment for these holds unp recedented potential. Cheers! 