WORLD Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), Senior Manager, Mr Gregory Sadyalunda has urged the development stakeholders in sub-Saharan countries to exploit potential in on-line Intellectual Property (IP), services, for better and innovative business models. The call was made yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the “WIPO Regional Training Workshop on Automation Status Reporting and Prerequisites for Online Tools Deployment”, which gathered participants from over 20 countries. The objective of the workshop was to provide all the participants with a forum to discuss, share experience, provide guidance and devise a strategy for the provision of online services for IP administration. “WIPO recognizes the importance of online services in the administration and management of IP for better and innovative business models. Online services have over the years gained in importance to the extent that it is expected of IP Offices to offer services for online filing, publication, and integration with other public sector services and payment processors. However, IP Offices in the Sub-Saharan region have not fully exploited their potential in the area of online services due to inherent weaknesses arising from budget and human resource issues; high economic vulnerability due to resourcing challenges and other public sector priorities” said Mr Sadyalunda. According to him, those factors lead to prioritization strategies that affect budget allocation for ICT infrastructure, human resourcing and capacity building, and that while most IP Offices in the western world and Asia offer online presence for IP services, most of the IP Offices in Sub-Saharan region are yet to offer online filing and publication. He noted that such dismal performance in online services calls for urgent measures to enable IP Offices in Sub- Saharan Africa to offer online filing, publication, data exchange and integration with other public services. The Senior Manager stressed that concerted efforts should be taken to address the constraints holding back the IP Offices, particularly in those areas where WIPO and Japan Patent Office (JPO)’s assistance could be sought and provided. He affirmed that WIPO has also committed to support the Member States’ efforts to strengthen their capacity in the provision of online services, with the aim of enhancing, increasing, and strengthening IP administration, awareness, and outreach, thereby leading to an increase in the value and the volume IP applications and registrations in general. Acting Executive Director for the Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA), Mr Emmanuel Kakwesi comment that, the workshop would serve as an enhancement of technical competencies on using WIPO on-line tools and services, which are being used by various countries. “I urge you all to take the opportunity to learn from experts’ vast experience, from each other and experience from respective countries and regional Organisation for the purpose of improving service delivery through intellectual property automated system,” he said.