DEMAND of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) for vehicles is now on the rise, compelling the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) to build a huge filling station in Dar es Salaam by October next year. In the same vein, the State oil company has welcomed private companies to venture into retail business of the natural gas for the vehicles to cater for the increased demand. On other hand, the TPDC revealed that it was also planning to set up a gas filling station by October next year specifically to serve the Dar Rapid Transit (DART) buses to relieve the project from high expenditure on fuel. According to the TPDC Managing Director, Dr James Mataragio, the only filling station at Ubungo in the city isnow overwhelmed, the current number of vehicles using the gas standing at 210 from 65 recorded in 2017. Dr Mataragio stated this yesterday when briefing theParliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals on the corporation’s plans to address challenges. He was also briefing the committee on the module of projects for natural gas prices, sale and its distribution for industrial and domestic uses. He said the major refilling gas station will be constructed along Sam Nujoma road. “The station will be used to refill the vehicles and supply the gas to areas where gas pipe infrastructures are not yet constructed,” he said, mentioning some of them as Kigamboni, Kibaha in Coast Region and Muhimbili. He further explained that serving DART buses with the natural gas would further uphold country’s efforts to use gas in the vehicles. To begin with, the TPDC will set up the station for the DART buses at Ubungo depot. The oil company has also agreed with DART to construct other gas stations at Gongo la Mboto and Mbagala depots. He told the parliamentary committee the corporation has set aside 16.6bn/- for constructing more centres for the CNG and refilling stations. These infrastructures will also have outlets for facilitating supply of natural gas for industrial and domestic uses in various parts of the city. Speaking on other projects that the TPDC undertakes to facilitate use of the natural gas in the country, Dr Mataragio said the company has plans to develop gas infrastructures, including laying down a gas pipe from Tegeta to industrial area in Bagamoyo. Another project is to construct a gas pipeline from Dar es Salaam to Tanga which will comprise some outlets for distributing the gas to other regions and neighbouring countries.