NMB Bank has won the Best Bank in Tanzania 2019 award manned by London based Euromoney Magazine for the seventh consecutive year in a row. Receiving the award in Dar es Salaam yesterday, NMB’s interim Managing Director Albert Jonkergouw said tough decisions around capital, businesses and people to enable the lender deliver strong financials and pay industry-leading dividends to shareholders. “We are today the bank that works, rather than one which exists,” Mr Jonkergouw said. NMB said they are leveraging on the best technology in digital banking, innovative products and an extensive branch network and wakalas (agents) add real value to their customers’ lives. In a statement released by the leading global financial markets magazine the top award was issued to the financial institution was a result of outshining over 40 other banks operating in the country from 2013 to 2018. Mr Jonkergouw said: “winning the Best Bank in Tanzania award is a clear indication that the bank’s efforts are recognized not only in Tanzania, but across the region”. The Euromoney Award confirms the bank’s investment in digital transformation and technology that has further strengthened its ability to deliver innovative solutions to the market. Describing the selection criteria and reliability of the results, Euromoney’s statement said they received almost 1,000 submissions from banks in the awards’ programmes globally. However, “this year, our most successful banks have clearly defined what their core strengths are, and built their businesses around them,” the magazine said in the statement. In the judgment, they noted that the bank, being one of the key players in financial inclusion in the country, has consistently strived to provide innovative financial solutions to Tanzania. They singled out the bank for supporting the country’s financial inclusion agenda including pioneering revolutionary products and services and maximizing on technology to enhance customer experience in their branches, wakala network and digital platforms. “This award reflects the progress NMB Bank has made in delivering a banking experience that captures what customers need today and tomorrow, making it the best for financial inclusion,” Euromoney said. This year’s Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2019, depicts it as the Euromoney’s 50th Anniversary seeing the most prestigious awards in the global banking industry.