TUESDAY two weeks ago, August 13, was ‘International Left-Handers Day,’ observed annually to ‘celebrate’ the uniq ueness and differences of left-handed p ersons on P lanet Earth this side of Heaven. Left- Hander’s Day #LeftHandersDay was first observed in 1976 by Dean R . C ampbell, founder of ‘Lefthanders International, Inc.’ The event was then formally-adop ted by the Left-Hander’s Day C lub on August 13, 1997 to “ celebrate certain p eop le’s sinistrality, and raise awareness of the advantages and disadvantages of being lefthanded.” [ For details, just ‘ Google’ < http : / / calendarholidays. x yz / holiday/6 7 1/ left-hander-s- day> ] . ‘ Sinistrality’ is a medical term for “the q uality/ state of having the left-side ( or one or more of its p arts, such as the left hand or eye) different from – and usually more efficient than – the corresp onding right-side p arts also.” But, left-handedness shouldn’t be confused with ‘ambidex terity:’ the ability to use both hands eq ually well. In other words: ‘lefthandedness’ means using the left-hand habitually – or more easily –than the right hand. [ < http s:/ / www. merriam-webster. com/ dictionary/left-handed # medicalDictionary> ] . About 7- to-10 p er cent of the world’s p op ulation of some 7. 7 billion (as of Ap ril 2019) were/are left-handed. This is at a time when tools and other objects often than not continue to be made for right-handed folk. What ‘untoward discrimination’– for lack of better p hraseology! “ For left-handers, living in a world designed for right-handed p eop le can be q uite difficult and frustrating,” say exp erts, adding that “ p enning doors, writing in sp iral notebooks, using a comp uter mouse can be awkward.” However, studies have shown that left-handedness is indeed associated with intellectual creativity. Famous left-handers include–but are certainly NOT limited to–J oan of Arc; Alex ander the Great; J ulius C aesar; Q ueen V ictoria; K ings George II and V I of England; Michelangelo; Mozart; Napoleon Bonaparte; Scouting Founder Lord Baden-P owell; John Dillinger (the bank robber); Charlie C hap lin; Fidel C astro; J imi Hendrix; Oprah Winfrey; Soccer Maestros P elé and Diego Maradona. There also were/are eight US P residents so far who were/are left-handed, namely: J ames A. Garfield ( 20th President: 1831- 1881); Herbert Hoover ( 31st: 1874 - 196 4 ) ; Harry S. Truman (33rd: 1884- 197 2); Gerald Ford (38th: 1913-2006) ; R onald R eagan (4 0th: 1911 -2004) ; George H.W. Bush (4 1st: 1924- 2018); Bill C linton ( 4 2nd: 1946 - ? ? ) , and the 4 4 th P resident, Barack Hussein Obama (196 1-? ? ) . Oh, for a longer list, go to http : / / www.indiana. edu/~ p rimate/left.html> ] . The Left-Handers Day is used “to sp read awareness on issues faced by left-handers e.g. the imp ortance of the sp ecial needs for left-handed persons, and also the likelihood for left-handers to develop schizop hrenia, stemming from their enhanced creativity and imagination.. . ” R eally.. . ? As is the case in much of what goes on in our world this side of Hades, left-handedness has its p ros and cons. For instance: In ancient times, left-handers were generally considered to be inferior – on account of the belief that use of the left-hand was associated with witchcraft. ‘ Lefties’ are also called ‘ southp aws,’ a term coined in baseball to describe a left-handed p itcher. Even though left-handers are few in number (7 - 10 p er cent of the global p op ulation), they are nonetheless generally considered to be more intelligent than right-handers. Kudos to the lefties for surviving in a p redominantly right-handed world with p ride – and p roving their uniqueness every now and then! Sp aniard Tennis champion R afael ‘R afa P arera’ Nadal ( 1986- ? ? ) was originally a right-hander. However, he deliberately switched to being a left-handed player on the advice of his coach, mentor and uncle, Toni Nadal Homar–believing that it would give him a bigger advantage on tennis courts. In the event, Nadal won 18 Grand Slam Singles titles– the second most Grand Slams in history for a male p layer – as well as a record 34 ATP ( Association of Tennis P layers), Tour Masters-1000 titles; 20 ATP Tour-5 00 titles, and the 2008 Olympic Gold Medal in Singles. In Majors, Nadal won a record twelve French Open titles, three US Op en titles, two Wimbledon titles, and one Australian Open title. Overall, Nadal has won 82 career titles, including a record 59 C lay C ourt titles. With 81 consecutive match wins on Clay, Nadal holds the record for the longest single-surface win streak in the Open Era. In 2010, he became the seventh male p layer in history– and the youngest of five in the Op en Era, at age 24 , to achieve the C areer Grand Slam. He is the second male p layer– after Andre Agassi– to complete the Singles C areer Golden Slam. In 2011, Nadal was named the ‘ Laureus World Sp ortsman of the Year.’ [ < http s: / / en.wikip edia. org/wiki/ R afael_ Nadal> ] . So, if you are a right-hander – and hanker to win, win and win some more–would you switch to left-handedness? Should you? Well.. . I don’t know! Have a Happ y Lefthanders Day every year, we heartily say. After all, it is the only thing that is LEFT to be done here.. . Cheers! [israellyimo@gmail.com]