The 43 diplomats, who have been in the country since August 1, this year, showered the praises when they met Dr Magufuli at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The envoys visited several projects which are under construction, including the Nyerere hydropower plant on Rufiji River and portion of the central line’s Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) between Dar es Salaam and Morogoro. The envoys also had a glimpse of the now completed Terminal III at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) and ongoing construction of the Ubungo interchange at the junction of Sam Nujoma, Morogoro and Mandela Expressway. Their excursion also took them to the ongoing expansion works at the Dar es Salaam Port, the envisaged Tanzanite Bridge from Coco Beach to Agha Khan area across the Indian Ocean as well as the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) plant owned by Taifa Gas. The envoys also crossed over to Zanzibar where they witnessed construction works for residential buildings and shopping malls at Michenzani and construction of Terminal III of Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume International Airport. Also on the list of projects visited by the diplomats include construction of modern housing units at Fumba, paving of Kaskazini- Bububu-Mkokotoni Road and construction of a harbour for petroleum products and gas at Manga Pwani. The diplomats told President Magufuli that implementation of the projects as well as other endevours being undertaken to improve social services have earned Tanzania accolades in the international arena and proved that the country is poised to drivethe country towards attaining middle-income economy status by 2025. They also hailed President Magufuli for assuming the chairmanship of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) during the recently concluded 39th SADC Heads of State and Government Summit held on August 17 and 18 in Dar es Salaam. On his part, Dr Magufuli hailed the foreign diplomats for their outstanding patriotic works in their working stations and urged them to continue promoting Tanzania. President Magufuli appealed to the envoys to encourage investors from the countries where they are posted to undertake investment projects in Tanzania. “I want you to bring us development projects; time should come when you ask yourselves what you have done for Tanzania. Have I been able to facilitate investments in industries, construction of roads or bridge?” he told them. He urged them to make a close-follow up on issues which they deem important for Tanzania’s development. “I want you to be very aggressive and if there is anyone holding you back just write to me. I want to see things done rather than mere talk,” he stressed. Dr Magufuli also urged the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation to address challenges faced by Tanzanian missions abroad and ensure it works on reports submitted by the diplomats.