AFTER undergoing a 14-hour complicated surgery at King Abdullah Children Specialist Hospital in Riyadh under the expertise of 35 medical specialists last December, Maryness and Anisia Bernatus, who left for Saudi Arabia as conjoined twins last July, returned home yesterday to start a new life, each as an independent individual. The twins landed at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) yesterday and were received by Saudi Arabian Ambassador to Tanzania Mohammed Mansour Al-Malik, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Ramadhani Mwinyi, Deputy Permanent Secretary Ministry of Health, Dr Elias Kwesi, to mention a few. Received by Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), the twins will stay there for some time before returning to their home region, Kagera. MNH Paediatric Surgeon, Dr Zaituni Bhokhary, said the twins were ferried to the national hospital in Dar es Salaam in February last year, three weeks after being born in Kagera. Dr Bhokhary said after a thorough medical assessment on how they could be separated it was agreed to take them to Saudi Arabia, where she travelled with them. The twins, who were joined together in the lower chest, abdomen and pelvis, and shared the large intestine, urinary and a reproductive system, are now separated and are healthy although each has one leg. “After major surgery, the twins spent a month in hospital under the supervision of specialised doctors before they were later taken to rehabilitation centre. They also later underwent other minor surgeries,” said Dr Bhokhary. MNH Paediatric Surgeon, Dr Petronilla Ngiloi, called upon MNH specialists to closely follow up the development of the twins. “Tanzanians should also know that that the twins need our continuous support. We, in the medical profession, need to make sure we preserve the medical history to see that they grow to become happy and healthy citizens,” Dr Ngiloi said. Ambassador Mwinyi thanked the efforts made by people, who were involved through the whole process that made the joy of success possible. He commented that the two countries had had friendly cooperation. “There is cooperation between Saudi Arabia and Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI), where there is a programme of bringing doctors, which will end in 2022.” He further explained that Saudi Arabia had recently provided 62 dialysis machines, where 45 of them remained in the mainland and 17 others were sent to Zanzibar. “We also expect the country to support us with medical equipment, including computers that will be of great help to the country.”