KISUTU Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam has sentenced seven immigration officers to a total of 66 years in jail or over 16m/- fine for, among other charges, assisting Chinese nationals to engage in occupation in Tanzania. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi imposed the sentence recently on Fredrick Kumalija, George Elikana, Bhoke Mwita, Fatuma Songoro, Kelvin Ponela, Robert Mkini and Revocatus Mugisha after convicting them of 27 charges on their own plea of guilty. Other charges under which the immigration officers were convicted includes leading organised crime, making false statements for the purposes of obtaining resident permits and furnishing false information for the purposes of procuring work permits. The counts also include attempt to obtain working permit by presenting false document and obtaining work permit. According to the charge sheet, Kumalija alone faced 25 counts. While Kumalija, Mwita, Songoro, Ponela, Mkini and Mugisha are charged jointly with one count of aiding and abetting a Chinese national, Kumalija and Elikana were jointly charged with one count of leading organised crime. In his judgment, the magistrate sentenced each accused to either pay a fine of 500,000/- or go to jail for two years on each count. Under the circumstances, Kumalija alone will have to go deeper in his pocket by paying a total fine of 13.5m/- to escape the jail term of 54 years. Elikana, Mwita, Songoro, Ponela, Mkini and Mugisha, according to the judgment, will pay only 500,000/- each, making a total of 3m/-as fine if they would not wish to serve the custodian sentence of two years since they are everyone facing one count, as per the charge sheet. Reading the charges, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon told the court that between June 1, 2017 and May 17, 2018 in Dar es Salaam, Kumalija made false statements for the purpose of obtaining resident permits for 17 Chinese nationals. Kumalija indicated that Liu Yunley, Chan Chao Hui, Fu Zeng, alias Wang, Wu Hai Quing, Liang De Qing, Ke Qiu Fang, Jing Jong Lin, Ku Liao, Yan Yan Geng, Chen Xiao Hui, Lin Min Hui, Chen Gwan Di, Lin Ben, Rui Guo, Lin Xiungqui, Chen Fa and Wan Li had qualifications to get work permits from immigration. The court heard that within the same period and place in the city, Kumalija, Mwita, Songoro, Ponela, Mkini and Mugisha aided another Chinese Bo Song to engage in an occupation in the United Republic of Tanzania without being in possession of valid residence permit. It was alleged that within the same period, Kumalija furnished false application for work permit form and employment contract information to the Labour Commissioner between Sino Cigarette Company Limited and Chinese nationals Liushe Gu and Baijun Tian for the purpose of procuring working. The prosecution told the court that the same accused also furnished false employment contracts to the Labour Commissioner between Fahari Yako Company Limited and D & C Autro Spare Company Limited for the purpose of obtaining working permits for Chinese Zhoucao Zhou and Jintin Huang, respectively. According to the prosecution, Kumalija committed a similar crime involving Aldorabi Trading Company Limited and Chinese Jiaqi Liu and attempted to obtain working permit for Shilei Song, a resident of China by presenting false Curriculum Vitae (CV) and employment contracts with Eastway Investment Limited. It was alleged also that the same accused furnished to the Labour Commissioner false CV and introduction letter for Chinese Yueming Cao and Liu Jia Qi for the purposes of procuring work permit. The court was told further that June 1, 2017 and May 17, 2018 in Dar es Salaam, Kumalija, who is a public official and in violation of his public duty, in collusion with BoSongo and George Elikana, who are not public officials, intentionally furthered objectives of criminal racket with intent to reap profit.