THE Traffic Police Department has launched the ‘Implementation of the Road Safety Awareness Education Project for Persons with Disabilities’ to check road accidents and enhance the safety of people with disabilities, while on roads. The project was launched in Dar es Salaam recently by Traffic Police Commander, Fortunatus Muslim, who initiated its implementation at road junctions in Buguruni (Ilala), Mwembeyanga, (Temeke) districts and in various areas with a large number of drivers and visually impaired people. Mr Muslim emphasised that “It is the responsibility of all motorists, motorcyclists, cyclists and tricyclists to comply with the rules, regulations and procedures of road signs to avoid accidents.” He urged people with disabilities, who were disregarded by drivers to report violators of road signs and rules. Chairperson of National Committee for Persons with Disabilities on Road Safety (NCPDRS), Jutoram Kabatele, who is also the designer of road signs, urged people to understand and abide by road signs to avoid road accidents. “Reckless driving and disregard for road signs is a contributory factor to road accidents that risk the lives of both able-bodied members and people with disabilities,” he explained. He said it was the responsibility of every road user to be aware of and abide by road safety rules, regulations and procedures to avoid road accidents.” He explained that the road safety signs he designed applied to mentally disturbed people, physically challenged, people with albinism, visually impaired people and the deaf. Mr Kabatele said among the signs he designed included one, which indicated people with disabilities driving motor vehicles. “These road safety signs are available across the country, but many people are not aware and do not understand them as different associations that teach them are not competent, so pamphlets will be presented and during a forum to increase public awareness,” he said. “These signs are now used in European countries like the United Kingdom, where I have been called on to teach about them and was given awards, one of them being the best designer award.” He called on well-wishers, institutions and international organisations to help fund NCPDRS so that countrywide public awareness could be successful. “We urge various road safety stakeholders to respond to the plight of people with disabilities and fund training,” he said. Reading a NCPDRS speech on behalf of the committee’s secretary, Project Coordinator, Christopher Mbelwa said people with disabilities requests the Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA) and other relevant authorities to insure vehicles and boats were provided with friendlyinfrastructure for people with disabilities.