SUSTAINABLE management strategies are needed to address climate change, which is a major challenge to agriculture and food security. Due to climate change, the agricultural planting calendar has been disrupted, resulting in confusion among Tanzanian farmers. Experts, including extension officers and planning officers from Karagwe, Bukoba and Kyerwa districts in Kagera Region, who attended a one-day workshop held in Bukoba Municipal Council yesterday raised concern that a joint multi-sectoral approach was need to address climate change. Ms Clevina Kwigizile, an extension officer from Maruku Ward in Bukoba Rural District noted that due to climate change, crop diseases and crop insects were on the increase. “More education is needed to inform farmers of climate change and its effects. If we fail to give them proper education and guidance the agricultural sector will face adverse consequences,” she said. Mr Godwin Kabagembe, an extension officer, from Rukuraijo Ward in Kyerwa District, said a shortage of extension officers and lack of resources and transport hampered the agricultural sector. “Rukuraijo Ward comprises four villages-Nyabikurumbo, Mkombozi, Rukulaijo and Mugologolo. Unfortunately, I was working alone to serve about 20,000 farmers, but I do not have transport,” he lamented. He said Kyerwa District is comprised of 24 wards, but only eight extension officers had been provided with motorcycles. “I appeal for government intervention to rescue the situation,” he said. Programme Manager for Agro-Forestry for Livelihood Empowerment (ALIVE), Ms Alunas Maxwell, noted that the aim of the workshop was to sensitise councils so that they could set aside enough budgets in their respective areas to address cli mate change and its effects. He also said there was a need to raise public awareness and capacity building of farmers. She revealed that the programme was being implemented in several regions, including Bunda, Rorya, Musoma nad Butiama districts (Mara Region), Ukerewe (Mwanza Region) and in Kyerwa, Karagwe and Bukoba districts in Kagera Region. The programme is implemented by Agricultural Non-State Actors’ Forum (ANSAF), through ALIVE Programme and is funded by VI-Agro-Forestry. The current climate variability, such as the major droughts of 2005/06 and the major floods of 1997/08, already has significant economic consequences for Tanzania. These periodic extreme events cause major macro-economic costs, reduce economic growth and affect livelihoods. In 2005/06 drought affected millions of people and had estimated costs of at least 1 per cent of GDP. Future climate change may lead to a change in the frequency or severity of such extreme weather events, potentially worsening impacts. Climate change will also lead to increased average temperatures (1-3 Celsius by the 2050s), sea level rise, changes in annual and seasonal rainfall and possibly changes in extreme events. These changes will affect many key sectors, possibly affecting agricultural production, health, water availability, coastal zones, energy use, infrastructure and biodiversity and ecosystem services (including forestry and tourism). It will also lead to potentially large economic costs. Aggregate models indicate that climate change could lead to net economic costs that are equivalent to a loss of almost 2 per cent of GDP each year by 2030 in Tanzania. Any impacts are likely to have disproportionately strong effects on the poor, who have no the wherewithal to mitigate to climatic change.