TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute, Uyole centre (TARI Uyole), has said that Tanzania is one of the leading producers of highest quality pyrethrum despite its low production due to lack of modem technologies. Researcher and National Coordinator of pyrethrum research from TARI Uyole, Ms Billes Nzilano told the ‘Daily News’ at the centre yesterday that the improved varieties and other technologies would help to increase the production of pyrethrum crop in Tanzania. According to Ms Nzilano the world’s leading producer of pyrethrum is Australia but Tanzania produces the highest quality pyrethrum. “Tanzania is leading with highest quality pyrethrum in the world but the second country for the production of pyrethrum in the world. We need to improve our production by investing in modern technology to increase income and to achieve industrialization agenda through pyrethrum crop in Tanzania,” she said. She mentioned some regions cultivating pyrethrum in Tanzania as Mbeya, Songwe, Njombe, Iringa, Arusha, Manyara and Kilimanjaro. “Mbeya Rural District in Mbeya Region is the leading areas where pyrethrum is cultivated. Over 85 of the cash crop is produced in Mbeya Region where the country has the capacity of producing 2000 to 3000 tons annually. The cash crop came in the country from Kenya in 1930s, being cultivated in estates in the southern and northern highlands of Mbeya, Kilimanjaro, Iringa, Arusha and Tanga regions. Pyrethrum research in Tanzania began in 1963 at Igeri substation in Njombe, later in 1973 was moved to ARI-Uyole headquarters. Ms Nzilano called on the government to invest in pyrethrum crop by developing technologies that increase the production and national income. The researcher Baraka Nvile of TARI Uyole said that lack of adequate funds and funding discontinuity, emergence of diseases and pests and low rate of technology transfer to farmers is the main challenges which facing the production of pyrethrum in Tanzania. He suggested that all possible help should be rendered to farmers to increase production and yield per hectare from the current 350kg to 1,500kg per hectare and pyrethrums content from the present 1.2 to above 2.0 percent.