IT’S always great to have visitors and stay with them because in the process one feels loved, and in company. Here company implies security, because if an enemy attacks you, definitely your visitor will be part and parcel of you to also intervene. Tanzania now hosts visitors at the 39th Summit of the Heads of State and Government of the Southern African Development Community (Sadc), this year, meaning some Member States of Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe would attend. In the process, Dar es Salaam would host a beehive of activities to entertain them as well as other parts of the country they would wish to visit after reading in historical books or seeing in Televisions as tourist attraction sites. In the breathe, every citizen must play his/her role by welcoming them just like Tanzania culture of undugu (brotherly spirit), the founding father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere left behind. In the leaders’ entourage, some would opt to visit the town for a stroll in the evening hours and take a cup of coffee. Meaning they would expect guidance and brotherly treatment, not an occasion for them to be mugged or robbed. As Dar es Salaam is known to be a city of safety and peace like its Arabic name suggests as Haven of peace. Like Sociology may say that for a society to be complete, there must be all sorts of characters ranging from law-abiding to deviants, who would wish to shame the whole Tanzania family. This is not the right time to sort out disputes and wash dirty linen in the public with placards, whose messages are unfounded. Just as the Police Force in Dar es Salaam has said, security has been intensified in all parts of the region for everyone to enjoy, freely walk and go about his/her business. It is good that the Special Zone Police Commander Lazaro Mambosasa is alert and has started strengthening routine patrols throughout the city so that the visitors see and learn why Tanzania has been peaceful save some few disgruntled elements, which are there in any gathering. According to him the force will start using helicopters besides vehicles and horses to ensure security is strengthened all the times and at any important gathering. This should not be interpreted negatively because it is for the security and safety of all visitors and their law-abiding hosts. Cases of motorcycles being ridden zigzag and tricycles causing unnecessary traffic jams must now come to an end in the city and environs.