MAKUNDUSI villagers in Serengeti District, Mara Region have spent over 600m/- issued to them by Grumeti Reserves to build a Secondary School for 289 students in the area. The revelation was made yesterday by Makundusi Village Executive Officer (VEO), Mr Jacob Mbota, adding that the whole amount has been spent wisely, where the students, boys and girls are now continuing with their studies without interruptions. Thanking the investor, he said that: “The new school is completed with funds from the Grumeti Reserves, a conservation and eco-tourism company that operates a number of world class luxurious lodges in Western Serengeti with us (villagers). “We are grateful that Grumeti Reserves is giving us money that has enabled us to build this school and up to now we have spent the whole amount.” Mr Mbota further said that they also received over 60m/- and spent to construct two classrooms at the institution under a special Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) outside the revenue agreement that they pay directly to the village account. He noted that the School’s construction involved building the Administration block, eight Classrooms and two modern Laboratories as well as four teachers’ houses. “Each of the teachers’ houses accommodates two families. Construction of the school started in 2017 and in 2018, they started to admit Form One students,” added the VEO. In this year’s National Freedom Torch Race, Mzee Mkongea Ali officially launched it in June 5, 2019. Currently, the institution has 289 students, where 117 are girls and the rest are boys, according to its Headmaster,Mr Peteris Mayaga. Mr Mayaga said the school has 13 teachers, where 8 of them are government employees, one by the US Ambassador through Peace Corps and five employed by Makundusi village government. “As we proceed on our school will become the best one, because we have enough teachers and good learning facilities,” he said. In a related development, Mr Mayaga said that with the support of the village government, they are now providing the students with porridge to enable them stay in school comfortable. Makundusi is one of the five villages including Robanda, Nyichoka, Natta and Park Nyigoti, Nyigit which surround the game reserve. Equally, they also receive assistance from Ikona Wildlife Management Area (WMA), which also gets bulk of its funds from the Grumeti Reserves annually.