TANZANIA, through the Medical Stores Department (MSD), is set to start actual procurement of health sector-related commodities for the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states by December this year. In November 2017, the SADC Council of Ministers of Health and ministers responsible for tackling HIV and AIDS unanimously approved Tanzania through MSD, to host SADC Pooled Procurement Services (SPPS). SADC Pooled Procurement Project Manager Mr Marco Masala told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday in Dar es Salaam that MSD had taken all necessary steps to ensure that the new task is well implemented and does not interfere with its other roles. He said after the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the SADC Secretariat and MSD to operationalize the SPPS, the agency established a specific unit to deal with the project. “A full-fledged SPPS office has been established within the existing structures of MSD to coordinate the pooled procurement functions in close collaboration with the SADC Secretariat for effective implementation of the project,” Mr Masala said. He said MSD has already prepared a guiding document that would be applied by the member states as a framework of operationalisation of the SPPS as well as developing a SADC supply chain management system for health commodities. The guidelines have already been approved by the member states. “We have also designed a web-based system as an electronic platform for managing SPPS activities,” he said. Mr Masala noted that MSD has announced a tender, noting that they were finalizing evaluation stages before revealing the manufacturers who will be dealing with MSD in providing services in SADC pooled procurement. He said that after the manufacturers were known, MSD will request for medication requirements from SADC member states and deliver. According to him, MSD was planning to start actual procurement of health commodities for SADC member states by December this year. Mr Masala said; “Before December this year, MSD would have communicated prices to member states, identify the manufacturers and start receiving orders from member countries, with a plan to start the actual procurement by end of this year.” Through SPPS, MSD will facilitate direct delivery of health commodities from manufacturers to the member states, a move that is expected to reduce the cost to southern African nations and the MSD as well. He noted that the health commodities will be delivered directly to the respective member states. “The consignment will not pass through Tanzania because it will be very expensive ...what MSD will do is to place orders to manufacturers and they will deliver to the respective countries,” he said. Speaking during the fourth SADC Industrialization Week and exhibition which was concluded on August 9 this year, MSD Director-General Mr Laurean Bwanakunu, said his agency was ready to take to the next level, the task of procuring and supplying essential medicines and medical supplies for the 16 SADC member states. According to the DG, at least 80 producers from 40 countries, including Tanzania, have been selected for review as part of the tender procedure. “There has been a huge turnout from 40 countries worldwide willing to trade with SADC countries by supplying medicines and medical supplies,” he said. The SADC Pooled Procurement of Essential Medicines and Medical Supplies Situational Analysis and Feasibility Study in 14 member states noted that public sector procurement prices for essential medicines differ significantly between SADC member states.