GOVERNMENT efforts to boost supply of affordable energy through execution of the 2,115MW Rufiji Hydro power project will reduce production costs and accelerate industrialisation both in Tanzania and SADC region. Southern African Development Community (SADC) Executive Secretary (ES) Dr Stergomena Tax, speaking at the opening of the fourth SADC industrialisation week and exhibition at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre, pointed out that the high energy cost emanating from the energy deficit, increases the cost of production in SADC member states. As a result, she said, the products fail to compete in the market due to cheap imports from outside the SADC region. “The current energy demand as compared to energy generation capacity reserve margins and planned outages leave the region with a deficit of 2,000 megawatts. “In this regard, we commend efforts by the Tanzanian government under President John Magufuli to increase supply of affordable energy through the 2,115MW Rufiji Hydro power for the major initiative, which will not only benefit Tanzania but also the SADC region,” said Dr Tax. Upon the project completion, Dr Tax noted that SADC member states will access excess energy through the Southern African Power Pool (SAPP) inter connector. She noted that members states need to remain focused on the targets set as a region on industrialisation, which include increasing the share of manufacturing value added in GDP to 20 per cent by 2020 and 40 per cent by 2050. Prof Tax further revealed that it was less than a year to 2020 and there is concern that performance is far below the targets as most countries remain on the margins of industrialisation. “Such is demonstrated, by among others, the low and stagnating shares of SADC’s manufacturing value added (MVA) in GDP. In 2016, SADC’s MVA accounted for 11.6 per cent and grew to only 11.9 per cent in 2018. “It is, therefore, important for member states to redouble efforts for us to attain the milestones we have set for ourselves as a region and in so doing, transform our economies,” she added. For the region to realise its targets, she said there is need to pay attention to all the pillars of SADC Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap— industrialisation, competitiveness, regional integration and cross cutting issues—w hich outline a number of complementary interventions that are supposed to be implemented coherently. She underscored the need to collaborate with the private sector as a critical partner to the SADC industrialisation agenda. Development of the value chains and infrastructure require, among others, investments and capital from the private sector. Dr Tax however disclosed that the growing African market emanating from the signature and operationalisation of the new African Continental Free Trade Area will expand the market for goods and services. She was quick to identify several concerns which remain on the slow pace in the finalisation of exchange of offers and the ratification of the COMESA-EACSADC Tripartite Free Trade Area Agreement. “May I call upon member states to finalise tariff negotiations and ratification processes for the Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA) agreement, a catalyst to Continental Free Trade Area. May I also call upon the private sector to join hands with member states in advocating for the operationalisation of the COMESA-EACSADC Free Trade Area. “L et us utilise the trade opportunities created by SADC Free Trade Area, which is an integrated market of the 16 countries with a combined population of 327m illion and GDP of about 599 billion U S dollars as in 2016,” stressed Dr Tax.