TEN people, including employ- ees with a mobile service provider company, Tigo, appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday, facing several counts relating to interfering customers’ financial data accounts with intent to obtain money. The charges include conspiracy to commit an offence, obtaining money by false pretences, gain- ing access to financial data without permission, publishing false information, initiation and transmission of unsolicited messages and money laundering. The accused were in two groups. The first group comprised Kokubelwa Karashani, who is Tigo customer service officer (Mlimani City), Godfrey Magoye, an agent with Tigo, Khalfani Milao, a customer care officer with Tigo, Mohamed Abdallah and Mosses kilosa, who are both businesspeople. Another group involved Burundian national Hamis Singa, who is team leader with Tigo, Jailos Joseph and Japhet Mkumbo, both farmers from Arusha City and Singa Mnunga, alias Elisha as well as Omari Abdallah, who are all farmers from Babati in Manyara Region. The accused were not allowed to enter any plea to the charges against them, when they were arraigned be- fore Senior Resident Magistrates Augustine Rwizile and Salum Ally because the case was filed under the Economic and Organised Crime Act. Since the accused are facing counts of money laundering, the magistrates ordered them to be remanded because the offence they are charged with is not bailable. Their case was adjourned to August 13, 2019 for mention as investigations into the matter are still going on. Prosecuting, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon told the court that between January and July 2019 in various places in the regions of Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Manyara, all accused conspired to commit an offence of obtaining money by false pretences. The court heard that Between January 1, 2018 and June 2019 in Dar es Salaam and Arusha, by false pre- tences and with intent to defraud, Abdallah, Kilosa, Karashani, Magoye and Milao obtained 20,378,627/-, the property of Tigo customers by withdrawing money from their Tigo Pesa accounts. It is alleged that between January and July 2019 in Arusha and Manyara regions, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, Joseph, Singa, Mnunga, Mkumbo and Omari obtained through mobile money transfers 26,432,441/- from Vodacom and Airtel customers. The prosecution alleged further that between January 1, 2018 and June 20, 2019 at Tigo Shop Mlimani City in Kinondoni District, being an employee of Tigo Customer Service Department, fraudulently gained access to Tigo customers’ financialdata without permission. According to the prosecution, a similar offence was allegedly committed by Magoye, being an agent of Tigo Tanzania Service Provider, Customer Service Department, within the same period at Tigo Shop in Kariakoo, Ilala District. Both accused gave such information to Mohamed Sadick Abdallah with intent to obtain money from their customers. It is alleged that between January and July 2019 in Manyara Region, being employee of Tigo Babati, Singa fraudulently gained access to Tigo Pesa agents’ financial data. The prosecution told the court that the accused had inten- tion of using such access to obtain money by false pretences. Abdallah was charged with one count of being found in possession of government store, that is one coat, trouser, handcrafts and a cap, the properties of Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF). It is alleged that within the same period and places, Joseph, Singa, Mnunga, Mkumbo and Omari published information in a short message, “Tuma pesa kwenye namba hii” knowingly that such message were false and intended to mislead members of the public. The prosecution alleged that the same accused, while in Aru- sha and Manyara regions, initiated the transmission of unsolicited messages by sending text messages to various persons directing them to send money vial mobile money transfers to their SIM cards registered in other people’s names. It is alleged that within the same period and places within the United Republic of Tanzania, Joseph, Singa, Mnunga, Mkumbo and Omari transmitted of unsolicited messages to various persons with intent to obtain money. All the accused were charged with money laundering. The prosecution alleged that within the same period and places, Joseph, Singa, Mnunga, Mkumbo and Omari acquired 26,432,441/- while knowing that the money was proceeds of a predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences. The court was told also that between January 1, 2018 and June 2019 in Dar es Salaam and Arusha, Abdallah, Kilosa, Karashani, Magoye and Milao acquired in property of 20,378,627/- while they knew or ought to have known that the money was proceeds of a predicate offence of obtaining money falsely.