TANZANIA Building Agency (TBA) envisages raising its annual collections to 114bn/- in the 2019/20 fiscal year, a sixfold increase from 19bn/- in the preceding year. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Isack Kamwelwe told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Infrastructure here that the public landlord agency plans to evict all its ‘stubborn tenants,’ including members of parliament and some government institutions. “Let me make it clear. TBA will evict all unrelenting debtors in public servant’s houses, members of parliament and other government institutions,” he said, insisting: “We aim at strengthening the agency to become self-sufficient and finalise some other pending construction projects.” The current outstanding debt according to the minister is over 20bn/-. TBA was recently contracted by the state to build the now State House in Dodoma’s Chamwino District and it has also completed construction of residence structures at the Rufiji Hydroelectric Power project. Engineer Kamwelwe emphasised however that the authority will abide by rules and regulations in evicting its tenants, charging that the debt is likely to slow the agency’s efforts to implement its plan, including launching other vibrant projects. The Deputy Minister in the Ministry, Mr Elias Kwandikwa told the committee that the government has continued compensating villagers who are paving way for construction of various infrastructure projects, especially roads and airports. Mr Kwandikwa told the legislators that the ministry had so far received over 5.7bn/- to compensate some residents for the expansion of Dodoma Airport. The Committee Chairman, Mr Suleiman Kakoso advised the building agency to work on complaints that have been repeatedly echoed by its tenants, especially on repairs of its structures. “There is need for the government to reconsider the agency by providing a special emergency fund to help completion of its construction projects,” he noted. Mr Kakoso further argued: “There are some dormant projects, which are unnecessary cost to the government... these projects need to be completed to provide value for money.” The committee had invited the minister and his deputies to review reports on infrastructure projects that had been endorsed by the National Assembly.