TANZANIA Forests Services (TFS), seeks to introduce ecotourism within the tourism market in the Southern African Development Community (SADC), saying Tanzania has abundant forests potential for such tourism. \ During the 4th SADC Industrialization Week which concluded on Thursday in Dar es Salaam, the TFS put the country's ecotourism potential among products it marketed to the participants of the exhibition from the Member States. "Ecotourism is the new type of tourism in the country. We currently have 17 forests for ecotourism countrywide, and people would never regret when they visit them," TFS Marketing and Investment Manager, Mariam Kobelo told journalists. She said the ecotourism, if well utilized, will contribute to the growth of the country's economy. "There are huge opportunities in ecotourism which has never been practiced in the country. So tell our colleagues from other SADC countries that we have such type of tourism. And we are glad that many of them have shown readiness to come to Tanzania to visit ecotourism places," she said. During the exhibition, TFS also marketed honey and beeswax products that the country has been producing. The move attracted participants from Member Countries who showed interest to do honey and beeswax business with Tanzania. The countries include South Africa, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Ethiopia. Some of them wanted to buy the products, while others wanted to come and invest in the beekeeping industry here in the country. "Investors from those countries need to meet with the beekeepers so that they can discuss business deals," Ms Kobelo noted. Tanzania produces approximately 34,000 metric tons of honey annually, according to TFS agency. Tanzania also exports 250 and 350 tons of honey and beeswax respectively annually. The main buyers of Tanzania's honey are the European Union (EU), member countries, especially UK, Germany and the Netherlands. Other countries are the United Arab Emirates and Oman. The main importers of Tanzania beeswax are; Japan, USA and EU member countries. It is estimated that each year, the sector generates about $1.7 million (Sh3.9 billion), in revenue from sale of honey and beeswax, according to TFS agency. It employs about 2 million people in the country, with 1.2 million being beekeepers. Types of honey produced in Tanzania and which fetches high prices in local and international markets include, Miombo from Miombo woodland, Acacia from Acacia bushlands, and Creamy-white.