Mainland champions Simba and the Federation Cup winners Azam meet in the 2019/2020 league season curtain raiser, with each side showing respect to the other. Initially, the match was to be staged at the Samora Stadium in Iringa Region but the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) made change of heart and switched the match venue to the National Stadium and it will kick off at 7pm. Simba’s Head Coach Belgian Patrick Aussems also admitted that his side needs to be at their best to stand a chance of defeating their opponents having recruited a number of new players and definitely the game is going to be very tough. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Simba Head of Information and Communication, Haji Manara said their goal is win the third consecutive Community Shield. However, he said the task might not be easy because their opponents have a good coach as well as a strong team comprising experienced and fresh blood. Manara said they respect Azam’s quality. About the readiness of the team, Manara said that the squad is now injury free and more than ready for the task ahead. Manara said that the team’s first choice goalkeeper Aishi Manula, attacking midfielder Ibrahim Ajib and Brazilian striker, Wilker da Silva, who were on injury list, are back in the squad and have started light training. However, chances for them to feature in tomorrow’s match are slim, although the decision of whether to utilize them or not will depend on the technical bench. “We are looking forward for a positive kickoff of the new season and we are ready for the curtain raiser match against Azam,” said Manara. On his part, Azam Spokesman, Jafari Idd said that the ‘ice-cream makers’ side under the tutelage of Burundian tactician Etienne Ndayiragije, is aware of the importance of the match. He also predicted a tough encounter. “We know the importance of winning the Community Shield ahead of the new season. A positive start to the new season is vital…certainly; it is going to be a difficult match because Simba is a big team with quality players. We respect the club (Simba) and their recent success is enormous but we will work to neutralise them,” he said. In tomorrow’s match, Azam will continue to miss the services of their central defender and skipper, Aggrey Morris and defensive midfielder, Mudathir Yahya, who are still nursing injuries. Simba have won Community Shield four times, while Azam won it once. Simba and Azam are going to exploit the Community Shield game on Saturday to fine tune their squads the continental assignments. The Msimbazi Reds will face UD Songo of Mozambique in CAF Champions League, preliminary round and return leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on August 24th 2019. Simba were held to a barren draw away in Beira, Mozambique a week ago, in the first leg. Azam will also use the match to shape up for the CAF Confederation Cup, preliminary round, second leg clash against Ethiopia’s Fasil Ketema at Azam Chamazi Complex on August 24th 2019. Azam lost 0-1 away against Fasil Ketema in the first leg a week ago. Both Simba and Azam need to win the second leg to advance in the next stage of their respective tournament.