THE re-election of Dr Fredrick Shoo  at the helm of the country’s Evangelical Lutheran Church (ELCT) is a strong statement by more than six million congregants in all 25 dioceses countrywide. He was re-elected at the Tumaini University Makumira (TUMA) yesterday, which demonstrates that the ELCT faithful still trust him as he retakes the reigns of the 56-year old Lutheran denomination for the next four years. Known for his no-nonsense approach, when delivering his homilies, Bishop Dr Shoo has more often than not stood his ground in speaking the truth irrespective of the sentiments of neither his faithful nor of political leaders. While delivering his Easter message to the faithful on April 21 at a Lutheran church in Moshi Town this year, Dr Shoo, also known as ‘the tree’, urged the faithful to embrace values. Quoting a number of Biblical verses, the cleric called upon the congregants to live by the truth and let values be part of Shoo re-elected head of ELCT their lives. “Some even tried to hide the Resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ to the extent of paying soldiers to conceal the truth all to no avail,” he preached. Apart from preaching about truth, Dr Shoo is also known as someone, who denounces greed and selfishness. During his sermons, the head of ELCT would openly castigate leaders for embracing the two vices. While gracing the consecration of 10 new pastors of the ELCT Northern Diocese in Moshi in November 2017, Dr Shoo challenged leaders to relinquish their earthly might and serve the people diligently. He reminded them that leadership was a God-given gift and that they were highly indebted to ensure that they served the people accordingly. “Many leaders nowadays are driven by selfishness and greed and tend to forget to address issues affecting those they serve and only think about their welfare,” challenged the cleric. During a requiem mass for business and media mogul, Dr Reginald Mengi, at a Lutheran church in Moshi on May 9, this year, Dr Shoo played a mediation role, when he summoned the chairman of Tanzania’s main opposition party (Chadema), Mr Freeman Mbowe, and Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda to the pulpit for a truce. The ELCT head was forced to call the two to the altar before thousands of mourners, who had thronged the Lutheran church in Moshi Town to bury the hatchet after Mr Mbowe had earlier taken issue with utterances made in Dar es Salaam on May 7. But before he concluded mass and blessed the congregants, Bishop Shoo first called Mr Makonda to the pulpit, then Mr Mbowe to quell the matter. Following Bishop Shoo’s intervention, the two shook hands amidst cheers from the congregants. During his homily, Dr Bishop Shoo expressed his displeasure over the perceived arrogance exhibited by young leaders. “We shouldn’t forget where we came from despite our status and positions in society, always remain humble servants to all,” preached the Bishop amidst a resounding Amen. Dr Shoo was on Saturday reelected as the head of the Lutheran Church after garnering 144 votes ahead of 74 cast in favour of Dr Abednego Keshomshahara from the North-western diocese.