THE latest report by the Local Authorities Accounts Committee (LAAC) has revealed a damning assessment of Rombo District Council, describing its director as “dysfunctional and with institutional paralysis” thus occasioning loss of over 5.7bn/- in dubious payments. LAAC completed its evaluation on the special audit report by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), for the fiscal year 2014/15 and 2016/17, detailing serious misuse of public funds set aside for various development projects. After going through the special audit report, LAAC Chairman, Vedasto Ngombale announced yesterday that the committee had resolved the District Executive Director (DED), Magreth John was “incompetent” to hold the position. “We call upon the appointing authority to immediately take action against the executive director,” he said, adding that “the committee is also asking all officials implicated in the CAG report to be held accountable.” The committee instructed Kilimanjaro Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Aisha Amour and security organs to investigate the conduct of the officials implicated in the CAG report. Speaking earlier, Mr Ngombale said some senior officials in the Department of Finance at the council cleverly assigned each other’s jobs and subsequently made payments on matters that were not recorded. “Some documents show that accountants, for instance, directed some payments on a dubious assignment,” the irritated chairperson said before the committee members. He insisted that the council had also failed to abide by procurement procedures and account on various expenses. This is the second special audit assigned by LAAC since President John Magufuli came to power in 2015. The first audit involved Kaliua District Council and later the committee was expected to evaluate the third audit regarding Hanang District Council. Deputy Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Mwita Waitara, who attended the session on Thursday said the government would take action accordingly. He explained that the government had made it clear that all civil servants were required to improve service delivery. “This is a positive investigation and as the government, we will take action, where it’s due,” he said. This is not the first time, however, for Ms John to be in trouble. In October 2017, the same committee directed a 10-per cent salary deduction for one year, following a CAG report that revealed massive irregularities in the council. During the time, the director was able to only respond to 18 issues out of 76 highlighted by CAG for the fiscal year 2015/16. The new report, however, as a result of a special audit was issued on October 2017, but was conducted between May and July 2018.