THE government has launched a 10-year strategy that will seek to address postharvest losses of major crops in the country with 38bn/- set aside this fiscal year to curb the problem. Studies show that more than 40 per cent of both food and cash crops were lost during harvest or transportation from farms, warehouses to markets. Speaking during the launch of Nanenane at Nyakabindi grounds yesterday, Vice President (VC) Samia Suluhu Hassan said having strategies and researches on issues affecting farmers and the agricultural sector was one thing, but to ensure interventions benefitted farmers was another. “Many researches don’t reach intended people at the grassroots and this calls for the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure they reach farmers through local experts like extension officers,” she said. According to the VC, there are many challenges affecting agricultural production and challenges on farmers’ education and supply of inputs must be addressed. She stressed the importance of drip irrigation as opposed to traditional farming practices, showing disappointment at the fact that only a small part of arable land was under irrigation farming. Responding to Simiyu Regional Commissioner Anthony Mtaka, who asked for the construction of a textile mill in the region, the VP said the matter should be well studied first, taking into account that the Lake Zone had at least two such mills already. Mr Mtaka based his request on the fact that Simiyu Region cultivated almost 50 per cent of the cotton produced in the country and that the textile mill could cost 69bn/-. Earlier, Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga said addressing post-harvest losses was one of the main national agenda items since individual farmers and the country’s economy suffered from the problem. Mr Hasunga was of the view that by 2050 the entire Africa and Tanzania in particular would be facing serious food scarcity if no deliberate efforts were made to curb post-harvest losses. Giving examples of the post-harvest losses he said studies showed that between 20 and 50 per cent of tomatoes was lost, 20-80 per cent bananas was lost, maize around 15 per cent loss and 40 per cent of cereals was lost. The ministers thanked sponsors, who made it possible for this year’s exhibition to take place and challenged exhibitors and visitors, including farmers to learn from each other and gain more skills. This is the second time Simiyu hosts the event and is also given another opportunity to host it next year before other regions take over.