AMIDST anticipation of mammoth attendance, a parade of tailor-made squad and multi millions in terms of collection, surprise package will brighten today’s Simba Day at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. What or who will be the surprise package to the bewildered fans today, this year’s Simba Day has a lot to reveal besides the new players to serve the club in the 2019-20 season. Simba, Tanzanian football giants will today test their squad against Power Dynamos of Zambia in an international friendly match. There are hopes to see superior Simba Day this time around as the annual event is increasingly becoming popular among Simba supporters and this will be the 10th year in a row the Reds stage the bonanza, which precedes the start of the Mainland Premier League season. As usual, the club will use the day to introduce their entire squad for the forthcoming season and award outstanding current and former players. The club will also use the occasion to unveil their home and away kits, which will be used in the new Premier League season as well the CAF Champions League. The Tanzanian champions will take part in the CAF Champions L eague, where they have been drawn to face U D Songo from Mozambique with the first leg set to be played in Maputo in the weekend of August 9 to 10 or 11. Unlike in the past, this Simba Day that was opened by Simba Week of humanitarian services has been almost a national level event. In Arusha as reported by Yasinta Amos members and fans of Simba SC in Arusha have been busy in series of community services, including donating blood to patients in Arumeru District. More than 60 members of the club arrived in a convoy of three vehicles at the Patandi Hospital in Arumeru District to boost the hospital’s blood bank with plasma donations as well as conducting other humanitarian services. The Simba Regional Secretary for Arusha, Thabit U stadhi led the delegation and explained that, other than donating blood, supporters of Simba also visited the inpatients at the hospital, cleaned up the facility and issued some basic supplies to the sick persons admitted there. “We gave them soaps, bottled water, towels, toothpastes, toothbrushes and detergents,” said Ustadhi, adding that all these were part of community services done in preparation for the 2019 ‘Simba Day’ climax coming up on August 8th. The coordinator of the Arumeru District Safe B lood department, Dr Abdallah Aziz stated that, out of the entire entourage, 25 members of Simba volunteered to donate blood though only 20 managed to successfully accomplish the task.