TANZANIA is committed to the implementation of functions towards establishing biosphere reserves in the country. That was said yesterday at the 50th Scientific Conference by Minister of State in the V ice- President’s Office responsible for Environment and Union, Mr George Simbachawene, adding that the government was keen on enhancing the management and protection of the ecosystem. He further noted to the delegates comprising Scientists, Researchers and W ildlife experts that the country will not relent in protecting landscape ecosystems and guard against environmental disturbances. Mr Simbachawene said that the environmental sustainability meeting deserve respect because it address the impacts of climate change by helping society to both mitigate and adapt to stressors. “Such reserves can be a source of foreign exchange as they attract tourists to the country, hence the need to protect, conserve and sustain them,” pointed out the Minister. Mr Simbachawene further said that the government was concerned by human related activities on biosphere reserves, noting that with the intention to restore some of the ecosystems, notably the Usambara East Biosphere Reserve. “While we acknowledge that these reserves face unprecedented threats such as rapid population growths, illegal hunting of wildlife, encroachment and blocking of wildlife corridors, it is also important to highlight the efforts that we are doing in averting further human related threats to the reserves,” he said. The minister however emphasized on the need to strike the right balance between conservation and people’s livelihoods in the quest of protecting the reserves. In the same vein, he tasked the National Environment Management Council (NEMC), to allocate more resources for research in the area of biosphere reserves, while challenging Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) and the Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS), to work in synergy to maintain and sustain the reserves. Earlier on, NEMC Director General, Dr Samwel Gwamaka described the management of biosphere reserves as a complex issue, which required concerted efforts and multidisciplinary approaches. “Human related activities such as mining are still a serious threat to the sustainability of these reserves,” he observed. The conference also saw Jozani Chwaka Bay of Z Zanzibar and the Gombe Masito Ugalla ecosystem in Kigoma nominated for Biosphere Reserves statutes. On the other hand, Lake Manyara, Serengeti-Ngorongoro and East Usambara Biosphere reserves were recognized for being subjected to periodic reviews by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Tanzania is a member of world network of biosphere reserves which are managed by the UN’s agency. UNESCO’s Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB), is an Intergovernmental Scientific Programme that aims to establish a scientific basis for the improvement of relationships between people and their environment. Its W orld Network of Biosphere Reserves currently counts 701 sites in 124 countries all over the world, including 21 trans boundary sites.