THREE Tanzanian Judokas left the country early yesterday for Morocco, to compete in the continental multi-sport event-- African G ames, set to open in R abat tomorrow. The trio, who are scheduled to commence the hunt for medals on Saturday and Sunday, include; Anangisye K wele, Abdulrabi Alawi Abdullah and Ally Hamis Hussein. They are under coach Innocent Malya. The second contingent of ‘ Team Tanzania’ comprising six runners will leave the country on August 21st in time for the event. The runners include team captain, Gabriel Geay who will compete in the 1,500 m and 5,0 0 0 m races respectively, Sarah R amadhani (Half marathon), Natalia Elisante (Half marathon), Benjamin K ulwa (4 0 0 m), Ally K hamis G ulam (4 0 0 and 80 0 m) and R egina Mpigachai ( 80 0 m). Currently, the team has set camp at Mkuza in K ibaha, Coast R egion continuing with their training and will begin their medals chase campaigns on August 26th and winding up on August 30 th this year. The team was presented with the national flag by the Director of Sports in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuph Singo, who challenged the athletes to be good ambassadors of the country, not only through winning medals but also maintain high level of discipline. R abat G ames, which is the 12 th edition of the event, will be held from tomorrow to August 3 0 th this year. And, the official opening day will involve more than 6,00 0 athletes competing in 2 6 sports disciplines, 17 of which are qualifying to the Olympic G ames of Tokyo 2 0 2 0 . It is the first time in the history of the Africa G ames that the event will be used as a qualification step to the Olympic G ames. In this case, Tanzania athletes will be eager to clinch medals in R abat G ames as well as seeking for qualification for the 20 2 0 Tokyo Olympic G ames. ‘ Team Tanzania’ came back home empty-handed in the last edition of the event held in Congo Brazzaville in 2 0 15, and this time around the team comprising three Judokas and six runners are eager to end the medals drought in the 12 th edition of the quadrennial formally known as All Africa G ames or Pan African G ames. After running previous 11 editions as the All-Africa G ames, the games has been renamed the African G ames. The decision for the name change was arrived at, during the Executive Council meeting of the African Union held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in January 2 0 12 . The continental multi-sport event held every four years organised by the African Union ( AU), with the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA) and the Association of African Sports Confederations (AASC), is being held in the cities of R abat, Salé, Temara, Casablanca, Benslimane and El Jadida. Morocco got the hosting right following the withdrawal of Equatorial G uinea. In total, Tanzania has won 2 4 medals since the inception of the event. The first G ames were held in Brazzaville, Congo from July 18 to 25, 19 65, involving 2 5 nation including Tanzania, which won a bronze medal. The second edition was held in 19 7 3 in Lagos, Nigeria, when Filbert Bayi, won the first gold for the country, whereas boxer, Habib K inyogoli won silver medal. Then, in 197 8 Algiers, Algeria, the country won two medals--one silver and a bronze In the event held in 1987 in Nairobi, K enya, athletes form Tanzania won seven medals--two silver and five bronze medals, and Tanzania most successfully campaign in the G ames was in 199 1 Cairo, Egypt, which the country grabbed five medals--a gold, three silver and a bronze. Four year later in Harare, Z imbabwe G ames, Tanzania won two medals–a gold and bronze, while managing only one silver medal at the 19 9 9 edition held in Johannesburg, South Africa. The eighth edition of the event was staged in Abuja, Nigeria in 20 0 3 , in which Tanzania won two medals- -one gold and a bronze, while in Algiers, Algeria 2 0 0 7 , Tanzania registered a silver medal. The down fall continued in 20 11 edition held in Maputo, Mozambique, in which, Tanzania managed only one silver medal. The four-year Olympic rhythm has not missed a beat since, Brazzaville, Congo hosted the 20 15 edition in honor of the Games’ 50th anniversary and Tanzania took part and failed to win even a single medal.