AS women strive for career development, they have been advised to learn to let go of perfectionism. This tendency to avoid mistakes prevents many women from realising their career potential. This was said in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Founder and Chief Executive of Maadili Leadership Solutions Scholastica Kimaryo during a Pan Africa Women CEO Forum. Ms Kimaryo explained that women, especially those, who had just started their careers always wanted to ensure everything was done right. Whether it is a business letter, project or just a simple email they would ensure it is done perfectly and this often makes them lose sight of what they want to achieve. “Your wellness matters more than anything else. For us to continue advancing in business, workplace and home we must get rid of perfectionism. If you don’t get all things done today it’s okay as you have already done the best,” she remarked. She further said there was a need to balance wellbeing with the often difficult and stressful work that women did. Explaining further she said women must remember that being hyper-stressed was a major health challenge today. “When they are trying to live up to a perfect picture of their lives, their bodies and their minds are stressed, leading to a downward spiral with consequences for health and wellbeing.” The forum is for businesswomen such as CEOs, directors, chairpersons, C-suite executives, industry leaders from Africa with the theme ‘Innovative leadership in growth mindset’. Engender Health Country Representative Prudence Masako said as a leader at times it was crucial to listen to fellow leaders on their strengths and challenges. “There is a lot to learn considering the issues of technology, but to be a woman with several responsibilities it is important to take part in meetings like this one and hear from other women on how they balance their lives without hurting anyone,” she explained. Tanzania Women CEO Roundtable CEO Emma Kawawa said the forum strived for evolving women in leadership of the continent by bringing them together with experts and sectoral players.