Cyril Ramaphosa said yesterday that Tanzania did a lot to South Africans and his government and people would never forget it. “We say thank you,” he said as he on behalf of South Africans expressed gratitude to Tanzania for the support it gave to them during their liberation struggle against the apartheid regime. The South African Head of State was at Mazimbu- Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), Solomon Mahlangu Campus, yesterday where he had gone to pay homage to the fallen freedom fighters who were buried in the area and address the SUA community and Morogoro residents.  He referred to Mazimbu and Morogoro Region as the maker of the liberation struggle for South Africa and most of other Southern African countries. According to President Ramaphosa, Morogoro is considered as part of South Africa and whenever he arrives at its soil, he feels being at home. “This piece of land, which we were given by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, is well-utilised. It became the maker of liberation struggle. This land gave us inspiration, knowledge and power for liberating our country from the apartheid regime," he said. He noted that no account could go down on war against apartheid in South Africa without mentioning Morogoro and Tanzania. "No account can be completed without mentioning Morogoro. What you did to us is something we will never forget," he stressed. He added: “You made us free, we dearly thank you internally. We are at the shrine of the liberation struggle" He explained that it was in Morogoro, where the first meeting for fighting against apartheid in South Africa was successfully held and from that time, South Africans considered Morogoro their home. "We, South Africans, feel that we have come home. We felt it from the point we entered. There is no need for anybody to remind us that we are at home," he said. He added that the majority South Africans had roots in Tanzania from the time of the liberation struggle. "My brother was a teacher here in Morogoro during those days and a number of brothers and sisters were buried here. Therefore, this is our home," he noted. President Ramaphosa added that Tanzania had made a great commitment and sacrifice for the people of South Africa. He explained that Tanzania dared to destroy its own infrastructure, purposely to stop enemies, who were targeting freedom fighters. "Tanzania sacrificed a lot for us, it even destroyed its own infrastructure to stop those who were hunting for us, while providing an escape route for the freedom fighters running away from oppressors. That was a great sacrifice and commitment. We say thank you very much," he explained. Earlier, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said SUA remained the base of freedom struggle for South Africa. He said all plans for facing the apartheid government were prepared at Mazimbu in Morogoro and the area carried a great liberation history for South Africa. He said there was need for South Africa and Tanzania to continue strengthening and cherishing good relationship, which was cemented by the Founding Fathers, Mwalimu Nyerere and Nelson Mandela. Minister for Foreign Affairs and east African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, referred to Mazimbu as South Africa within Tanzania. "What we have in South Africa today was here before it was there. In a real sense, it was President Ramaphosa, who was supposed to welcome us here." Prof Kabudi reminded South Africans and members of the public at large to always remember Mama Anna Abdallah, saying she was the one, who supervised the construction of Mazimbu buildings. "At that time, Mama Anna Abdallah was the Morogoro regional commissioner. Mwalimu Nyerere directed her to supervise the construction of these buildings and she did the job very well. We should, therefore, remember her contribution," he said. For his part, SUA Vice Chancellor, Prof Raphael Chibunda, said his university was receiving guests from South Africa from time to time, who came to visit the area and pray for the fallen fellow comrades at Mazimbu freedom fighters’ cemetery. He said the university was situated on 1,050 acres, which were given to South African freedom fighters by Mwalimu Nyerere in 1978. …Pushes for Morogoro-South Africa business relations SOUTH African President Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday said there was a need for Morogoro Region to forge business relations with his country because the two sides shared a great history. The South African Head of State, who visited the region, said there must be a plan that would enable products produced in Morogoro to be exported to South Africa and vice-versa. He said: “We need to work together to open markets in South Africa so that goods that are produced here can reach South Africa.” President Ramaphosa added that Mazimbu must be a place of tourism for South Africa since it preserved its history and an expression of kindness, sacrifice and commitment of Tanzania to South African people. “We need South Africans to visit Morogoro and see this place...We need to share experience, skills and learn our history,” he noted. He explained that he was moved to see several areas at SUA-Solomon Mahlangu Campus named after South African freedom fighters. “I was moved to see the names of our fellow comrades named after several areas here. It shows how Tanzania still values South Africa and is ready to keep the history.