THE government will start mobilizing fishermen across the country to join the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), to enjoy the benefits of the fund and including access to soft bank loans. Deputy Minister for Fisheries and Livestock, Abdallah Ulega, said this at the weekend during a meeting with the Ministry’s leaders, fisheries experts, cooperatives, financial sector stakeholders and NSSF, held in Mwanza. He said as a result of amendments on the Social Security Fund Act of 2018, NSSF provides social security to members from the private and informal sector, including fishermen. The Deputy Minister said the ministry was ready to cooperate with the NSSF for providing education on social security to fishermen from Lake Victoria, Tanganyika, the seafront and all the reservoirs to join the Fund. The sensitization programme would inform fishermen on various benefits they will receive after joining the pension fund including old age benefits, maternity benefits, loans, medical care and survivors’ benefits. “The education you provide through NSSF na Marafiki campaign is good and I believe in a short time all members in the informal sector will join the Fund,” he said. According to Ulega, the conference discussed how to help fishermen in Lake Victoria and other areas of the country. He said the ministry’s goal is to cooperate with fishermen to ensure they raise their livelihoods and increase government revenue. “I would like to express my deepest gratitude to the NSSF team, they have been fully involved, and we have agreed to provide this special education on the Social Security...we want fisherman to be included in the Social Security system,” he said. Ulega, who is also a Member of Parliament (MP), for Mkuranga constituency, said the ministry plans to process data, that will provide detailed information on the location and activities of fishermen across the country, The protection of aquatic resources is a collaborative activity, so every Tanzanian must take part in protecting the resources, he said. NSSF’s Informal Sector Manager, John Mwalisu, said the Fund had negotiated with various banks so that members could get loans through the banks. He said the Fund will provide three types of loans, including short term loans.