WHEN I asked a friend why his neighbour had chopped down a tree that served as a community meeting place-a popular avenue for small talk by Bao players- his reply left me wondering if his head needed some fixing. “… may be the guy just didn’t want anyone around his backyard,” says he. “You know these guys … he probably didn’t like the idea of someone ogling at his ‘missus’ while keeping an ‘artificial’ presence at that Bao thing.” But that’s a very expensive way of ridding oneself of snoops, especially in an area which is getting progressively denuded of tree-cover in the name of development. Still, that’s fun that comes with living in a rural area pretending to be a city suburb like Kigamboni. Yes, our enclave across the Magogoni Ferry is, in actual fact, a village in a hurry to become a city, yet has its uplifting moments … and downsides too. If you happen to love trees, as does yours truly, you’re likely to taste firsthand life’s delights without overworking your lungs during a hiking exercise – because that’s where you get the cleanest air in the whole of this city. Oh, was that true only years ago … perhaps? At the turn of the 1990s the areas immediately kissing the headlands on descent from the pontoon were virtually empty, save for an empty church building, a relic of the 1890-something entry into this country of the ELCT (Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania). The church had since put up a modern facility some 500 metres or so farther inland, a place that shared a fly-infested neighbourhood providing home to physically-challenged beggars. At the time, our Kigamboni remained leafy and freshly airy; I do recall some study giving this place a clean bill of health as the cleanest human settlement in Dar; first, on account of generous tree-cover and the “ocean effect” from sea-breeze that clears all obnoxious pollutants from nearby TIPER (Tanzania-Italian Petroleum Refinery). Then came the axe-happy species for whom the only good tree is the one denied the opportunity to remain standing: for many, trees seem to suffer from a threat yet unknown, perhaps we live with people in that blessed place who are happier without trees than living under shady environs. In upcountry Mbarali district of the southern highlands, it was once rumoured that pastoralists often chopped down trees so they could best monitor their wives’ movements with weirdo partners. Yet this beats all logic: one day you see people enjoying a game of the local chessboard, Bao and the next thing what you see is, that tree, perhaps a century-old, has succumbed to the axe. Gone forever. Kwaheri! Such is the cruel underside story of Kigamboni; unplanned and choking – and now getting progressively denuded of trees -- despite all the platitudes and plethora of artists’ impressions of a suave city … on paper only. On a larger canvass, Tanzania is known for its tapestry of lush forests, expansive grasslands and tropical beaches and abundant and diverse wildlife. Its coastal forests are part of the Coastal Forests of Eastern Africa biodiversity hotspot – a place recognised for its wealth of wildlife but threatened with destruction, making it a high priority for conservation efforts. These forests are home to hundreds of endemic plant and animal species – ones that aren’t found anywhere else in the world. For example, there are five endemic mammals – including the Zanzibar Red Colobus – five endemic birds, six endemic amphibians and three endemic reptiles, as well as 325 endemic plants. More than 300 other species are shared only with the nearby Eastern Arc Mountains. Recent studies show that biodiversity – and the level of endemic species – is exceptional by global standards. They show that many endemic species are threatened with extinction. This is due to increasing human-use pressures as well as emerging mining, gas and oil exploration. Habitat loss and degradation has continued and the space remaining for the endemic species is shrinking. It’s now often confined to government protected areas and lands managed for conservation by villagers. Millions of people in Tanzania rely on natural resources – clean freshwater, healthy forests and abundant wildlife – for food and income. And, the destruction of Tanzania’s coastal forests to support the growing population is putting huge pressure on the natural environment. To deal with these challenges – protecting this unique habitat while ensuring people have the resources they need to survive – reserved areas have been created by central and local governments, as well as local communities who are promoting better management. There is also a gradual movement towards private ownership of land. Between 1995 and 2014, the total area under some form of protection increased by more than 20 per cent across the country; much of that is said to be “community managed village-land forest reserves. These challenges will only be resolved if the right framework, the study counsels -- from policy through on-theground actions. Before we start building those ‘concrete jungles’ promised in beautiful artworks, let’s begin with partnerships to fight the axe-happy men of Kigamboni who seem to believe the only way to preserve a good home tree is by chopping down trees. In response, the dead trees are speaking to us from their graveyards – as charcoal or beams in a language we’ve yet to understand …yet. They’re churning out a rich harvest of dust. shanimpinga@gmail.com 0712122128