THE University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), has embarked on a course to train higher learning graduates on entrepreneurship to enable them create new jobs in their midst and employ others. Opening the training yesterday in Dar es Salaam, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the graduates that would have better businesses ideas with support from the government and the institution, which further develop projects in the country. He said that the training would equip the graduates with knowledge and skills on how to start and sustain already existing businesses and employ others. So far over 2,000 graduates from various higher learning institutions have lined up to undergo the workshop. In the Premier’s remark presented by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama, the PM said the government would continue to ensure that the youth are accorded with support relevant to create and develop businesses for their welfare and the country at large. “I commend the UDSM for coming up with this entrepreneurship training program for the graduates…it is really a good move that the government highly accords its support,” he said, and urged the institution to consider having the training recurring every year to help many to identify, grab and develop business opportunities available in the country. The Premier said that the Integrated Labor Force Survey 2014 indicates that the country has 56 per cent economically active youth, but 2,290,571 are redundant. “If these (economically inactive youth), are given entrepreneurship training they are likely to identify and develop business opportunities to create jobs for economic development,” he said. Mr Majaliwa said the government is fully committed to help the youth including the graduates create and develop their business opportunities by giving them financial support including investment lands. He said that the government had ordered Municipalities to set and facilitates youth with the financial support including investment lands towards developing their businesses and income generating activities. He said the best graduates to create a potential business idea will be given financial support and investment lands and other supports in order to develop their businesses for the benefit of their welfare and the nation. On the other hand, the UDSM Vice-Chancellor, Professor William Anangisye said the entrepreneurship training programme will be conducted in 10 regions between August and September this year. The training that kicked off mid this month is being conducted free of charge to the selected graduates. He said the UDSM came up with the programme in order to help cut down the labor force with low skills and knowledge in the market, and also help the graduates to create and develop businesses and generating income activities. He said the training will be conducted in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Dodoma, Iringa, Lindi, North Pemba, Katavi, Mbeya, Mwanza and South Unguja