AIR Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) has secured the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) certification following the completion and passing of the IOSA audit. According to ATCL Managing Director Ladislaus Matindi, the IOSA audit was carried out by IATA auditors to determine ATCL’s operational management and control systems conformity to IATA standards. The IOSA programme is an internationally recognised and accepted evaluation system designed to assess the operational management and control systems of an airline. After auditing, all IATA members are registered as IOSA certified and must remain registered to maintain IATA membership. The auditing standards have been developed in collaboration with various regulatory authorities, such as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in the US, Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority, Transport Canada and the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA). IATA oversees the accreditation of audit organisations, ensure the continuous development of IOSA standards and practices and manages the IOSA registry. Commenting on the development, Mr Matindi said IOSA certification marked a milestone in the implementation of the ATCL Strategic Plan. “We needed IOSA certification to assure our partners in the international market that we are a credible airline,” he added. ATCL is now in the IOSA registry for two years before another audit takes place, hence the company has fulfilled all requirements to reclaim fully its IATA membership, according to the boss. Mr Matindi (pictured) thanked all ATCL staff and the ATCL IOSA team for spending a minimum budget “compared to what would have been paid to a consultant to perform the same task.” “After approval ATCL will easily enter into commercial arrangements, such as code sharing and interlining with other IOSA certified airlines. The achievement is a shot in the arm to the ATCL revamping programme especially the ongoing expansion of the ATCL international network,” he said. As ATCL records the achievement in the aviation industry, President John Magufuli launched Julius Nyerere International Airport Terminal 3 in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. The completion of the project means that JNIA can handle eight million passengers per year, thanks to the newly launched Terminal 3, which has the capacity of handling six million passengers a year. Winning the IATA Operational Safety Audit is yet another big plus for ATCL at this time when the airline is spreading its wings to Asia and soon to Europe.