SIMBA SC hitman Meddie K agere said the friendly match against Power Dynamos from Zambia on Tuesday was a good test prior to their CAF Champions League mission. Simba snatched a deserved 3-1 win over the visitors in an interesting match played at a fully packed National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, which officially climaxed the 10th edition of the annual ‘Simba Day’ commemoration. The match came just few days before the Msimbazi Reds will face Mozambican side UD Songo in the first round, with the first leg set to be played away in Maputo this weekend, while the return leg will be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam two weeks later. Kagere netted three times on the day, one goal in the first half and a brace in the second chapter to bury Power Dynamos, who despite defeat, proved that they are equally a good side. The Rwandan striker who emerged the Mainland Premier League top goal scorer last season has already been branded as a man to watch come next season in all major competitions Simba will be subjected to. Speaking after the match, Kagere said the match was part of their pre-season drill, insisting that it was a good test for them and motivation to the team ahead of the new league season and continental mission. “ As you know, we are still preparing for the busy season ahead of us and the more we play friendly games like these, the better we become as a team,” he said. He added that since the club has signed new players, the level of coordination among them is improving through such friendly ties and said they are going to work hard as a team to continue from where they left last season. He promised to net more hat tricks next season as they will be eyeing to defend the league title plus doing well in the biggest continental football contest. However, Simba’s overlapping defender, Shomari Kapombe assured supporters that the minor injury he sustained during the match is not serious to render him unfit for the CAF Champions League duel. “ At half time, the coach said if any of us was not feeling well, he should rest because the big match is just around the corner that is why, I opted to inform him about the knock but it is not a serious thing at all,” Kapombe said. He then lauded support he got from Simba fans, saying it gave him morale to even work hard after a long period of being sidelined due to injury he picked while on national team duty. He promised them that more good things are coming from the team. On his part, the Brazilian midfielder Gerson Vieira, who played his debut competitive match while on Tanzanian soil said he is going to dedicate himself 100 per cent to Simba. “ It was a good match and a good win for us. I hope our fans had fun to watch their team winning the game and they should expect much from us,” he said. “ I am ready to give 100 per cent of my time and ability to Simba because I love football and I like fighting for the ball while on the pitch,” Vieira said. On his side newly signed towering defender Kennedy Wilson Juma said that he is ready for competition for the first squad selection as he is aware of the situation. Juma who joined Simba from Singida United said he is looking forward to work harder to prove that is the favorite. Juma will face a stiff battle for first 11selection in Simba squad with the likes of Pascal Wawa, Yusuf Mlipili, Erasto Nyoni and newly signed Brazilian, Tairone Santos da Silva.