EVERY now and then scribes get time to reflect, ponder and shed light on interesting aspects of their noble profession. In the Jukwaa Huru la Habari network members were taken through time and space when a reflection was made on few great scribes this country has had since independence. A trigger was pulled by a member who wondered why there were fewer English writers while the number of schools, colleges and universities have increased in recent years. Names of old guards such as Benjamin William Mkapa (Ben), Jenerali Ulimwengu, James Mpinga, Ally Mkumbwa and Anaclet Rwegayura were mentioned in the long list. Praises were ushered on their ability to write on a wide range of issues. Issues of qualities of effective and/or good writers were brought up and settled that our old guards were keen to details, disciplined, mastered the language (strong vocabulary), passion for reading, were clear what they were writing and took criticism positively thus molding them. The language aspect was also on the spotlight as some joked about Beberu language…”aah, hizi lugha za mabeberu bhana…” Well thinking of it all a number of issues also crop up. One has to look at the kind of education that was provided at that time, the number and quality of media outlets, the quality of editors and type of audience (consumers). Looking at all these you would certainly note the difference. A critical look at the environment under which both digital and traditional media currently operate notwithstanding. Would it then be fair to say journalism is losing its glory on the ground today? Again, this is a mind boggling question after journalism credibility was brought to scrutiny recently by consumers and players in the field. It all happened at a SwahiliInflix press conference when a Bongo movie actress, Irene Uwoya intuitively created a breath-taking scene. The actress threw money into a beehive of journalists as ‘asante’ for coming gesture and the poor journals could not hold into work ethic. They fall into the trap and made a mockery of themselves. Ominously, the despicable incident created heated discussion amongst members of the media fraternity and those outside the realm. Many questioned if journalists are guided by moral ethics and standards; Probed if there is a professional body that safeguards and uplifts the highest standards of journalism; Asked if journalists understand their role and responsibility in the society; Quizzed their qualifications and integrity; Queried their moral authority as well as dignity. The brawl that ensued was both humiliating and sickening to all experienced and refined journalists in the field. Sadly, the sight went beyond reach! The discussion was blistering in all Tasnia ya Habari, Jukwaa Huru la Habari and all other critical minded WhatsApp platforms both locally and internationally. Those who were ghastly irritated by the appalling episode called on relevant journalists’ associations and authorities to condemn and take stern measures against all involved ‘Kanjanjas’. They agreed in principle that in the unprecedented event there was no journalist worth a title could engage in such unethical and demeaning act. Many pointed an accusing finger to online practitioners. They specifically accused online television practitioners for lack of professionalism and work ethic. Understandably, the emergence of digital media has opened way for free market place of ideas and information as well as employment. Media research show that currently there are more than 2 billion websites in the world. This means the explosion of expression is higher than was ever before and many people have taken advantage of technology to make ends meet. Speed, convenience, access and perhaps availability of respective technology has made it easier for IT savvy as well as journalists to gather and disseminate information at a speed of light. Indeed, technology has revolutionized the way people receive, perceive, disseminate and form opinions about other people and societies at large. In addition, technology has not only brought extraordinary value in our societies but also introduced new challenges to institutions, politics and journalism itself. Ethical misconduct and professional lapse in journalism that is being exhibited by untrained, inept and deceitful journalists is what is posing a challenge to journalism in the country today. Professionals in the field have cited a number of incidences where colleagues and/or impostors have displayed unprofessional behavior such as soliciting favours from sources, receiving brown envelopes and freebies, intruding or disrespecting other people’s privacy, fighting over food, drinks, masquerading as intelligence officers…the list is endless. Now that they have been maddened by “Kanjanjaz” they are also advocating for restrictive laws and regulations to prune out all unprofessional practitioners. To the dismay of many, the much protested Media Services Act (2016), is now perceived by the journalists as a bailout. Part III of the Act provides for the establishment of Journalists Accreditation Board. The Act has defined a journalist as a person who gathers, collects, edits, prepares, or presents news, stories, materials and information for a mass media service, whether an employee of a media house or as a freelance. The much criticized online media practitioners thus qualifies as journalists as per the definition. Again, the Act confirms journalism is an open profession as opposed to closed professions such as medicine, law or engineering. By making journalism an open profession, it does not, however, mean it operates in vacuum. Journalism is largely driven by norms, commonly-accepted set of ethics and values that guides journalists. The values and norms usually separates refined journalists and kanjanjas. Journalists also need to distance themselves from ‘advocacy journalism.’ It’s embarrassing to see journalists fighting one another over flimsy and irrational issues influenced by opportunistic creeds. Journalists should instead engage in constructive journalism to help societies understand their challenges and possible solutions. The need to restore lost trust by observing professional principles and ethics cannot be overemphasized. Journalists must work hard and professionally to give citizens required tools and information they need to be good citizens. Jacks Meena, Freelance Media and Communications Consultant. E-mail:jmmeena@hotmail.com +255 655 280 355/754 283 557