OVER 100 graduates from different higher learning institutions have benefited from an internship arrangement offered by Geita Gold Mining (GGM) for the last ten years. Out of those who acquired various skills in modern gold mining technologies and other areas, 50 students managed to secure employment as soon as they completed their internship programme. GGM Managing Director Mr Richard Jordinson said the internship programme will see 2019/20 27 graduates being admitted for a year long programme attaining different practical skills. “As a corporate citizen, we support the government initiatives to reflect curricula used for institutional training and labour market skills requirement for employability and hence continue to make a positive impact to the society,” Mr Jordinson said. An arrangement dubbed “Enhancing Graduates Employability in Tanzania” is part of the efforts by the government, the Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) and GGM to uplift and empower youths with practical skills and employability ready for competitive labour market. Initially, he said, the government and social partners had agreed to establish a nationwide internship programme which would provide opportunity to young graduates to acquire relevant skills at workplaces thereby connecting academic knowledge with practical experience necessary for a skilful labour force. In 2018/2019 internship programme, GGM retained seven graduates out of 22 who were enrolled in the areas of geology, mining, process plant, human resources, legal, community, safety and environment among others. Mr Jordinson said the linkage between theory and practical was integral to young professionals when working and establishing themselves in the labour market and that through the programme their market value will be useful in their career paths, whether at GGM or elsewhere. He further noted that the second benefit of the programme was the establishment of a talent pool, where the largest gold miner in the country would have an accessible pool of competent people when positions are available. Commenting on the programme, the enrolled intern representative for 2019/2020 Ms Diana Ngungi who graduated from the Iringa University thanked the government and GGM for initiating the programme promising to utilise every opportunity to the fullest. “I am so excited to have this opportunity and I am committed to utilise every learning opportunity that I will obtain to ensure that I gain right skills toward my next job” she said.