CENTRAL bank governors in the East African Community (EAC) have vowed to remain vigilant in a fight against risks arising from recent financial sector innovations. Steps taken include plans of effectively dealing with anti-money laundering and counter financing of terrorism. Meeting in Kigali for the 23rd ordinary meeting of regional intergovernmental organisations’ monetary affairs committee (MAC), yesterday, they stressed a need to continue building resilience to shocks in the EAC partner states’ financial sectors. Under the chairmanship of Governor John Rwangombwa of the Rwanda Central Bank, the governors appealed to enhance the coordination of activities that would support the resilience of the financial sector and to follow up progress of the realisation of East African Monetary Union (EAMU). They further reviewed the status of EAMU’s operationalisation with a focus on the decisions of the 22nd ordinary MAC meeting held in Kampala in August 2018. They also reflected on the progress in attaining the convergence criteria and highlighted areas that lagged behind. Mr Rwangombwa noted that partner states’ central banks had made significant strides in the harmonisation of monetary policy frameworks, exchange rate policies, rules and practices governing bank supervision, financial accounting principles and payment systems. According to them, a number of national laws were being harmonised and a significant progress had been made in the establishment of EAMU institutions as required by the Protocol. Nonetheless, they noted that there had been delays in the realisation of targets set out in the EAMU roadmap and that there were challenges that could further impede the timely implementation of EAMU Protocol and pledged to collaborate with stakeholders in the EAC integration process to fast-track pending activities of the EAMU roadmap. The meeting was held in relation to continued strong economic performance in most of the EAC countries, driven partly by stronger growth in public investments, rebound in the agricultural sector, resilient service receipts and the accommodative monetary policy. The economic outlook for the region remains strong, supported by continued investment in infrastructure and the accommodative monetary policy. They noted that there were prospects for stronger growth in South Sudan, given the signing of a revitalised peace agreement, increased oil production and investment in infrastructure, including power supply.