FORMER Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), president, Jamal Malinzi yesterday faulted officials with the Federation for failure to bring in court, the final statement showing the actual money he is demanding back for facilitating different sports programmes. He told Resident Magistrate, Maira Kasonde at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam that they had requested the TFF at the initial stage of his criminal proceedings to present such crucial document for the court to satisfy itself on the matter, but nothing has been done so far. Malinzi was giving his defence evidence in the fraud and money laundering trial he is facing alongside ex-TFF Secretary General Mwesigwa Selestine, Accounts Officer, Nsiande Mwanga and Clerk with the Federation, Flora Rauya. Led by seasoned Advocate Richard Rweyongeza, the ex-TFF boss explained that he had provided several funds to facilitate different sports activities under the TFF, including paying for Under-17 youth national team, Serengeti Boys. According to him, at the time Serengeti Boys’ team had no sponsors, thus he had to spend his own money and would be refunded later when TFF financial accounts become stable. He revealed that the youth team conducted several trainings abroad, like in Rwanda, Cameroon, Madagascar and India. During such a period, he said the team played over 25 matches. The former TFF boss also revealed that he had loaned the Federation money to foot different expenses apart from that of Serengeti Boys. He also paid salary of the then national team Head Coach, Kim Poulsen. Malinzi explained that all the monies he loaned to the TFF were posted to his loan account maintained by the Federation’s Credit Controller, Seleki Yonaza. He explained that Yonaza, who is among the prosecution witnesses, had admitted such fact when giving his evidence during the trial. He also told the court that all the receipts for such payments were issued by another TFF official, Hellen Adam, who was also among the prosecution witnesses. Such witness, Malinzi said, was not charged with any criminal offence for issuing the receipts. According to him, he believed all such documents were genuine as what was evidenced by the TFF Director of Finance, who also had not raised any complaints about the receipts when he was called by the prosecution to give evidence in the case. In the case, Malinzi and his coaccused persons are facing a total of 20 counts of forgery, uttering false document, abused of position, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering.