‘DISCIPLINE’ is usually the dreaded word for most of us. At home we want our children to remain disciplined, the school administration also maintains discipline, employers want their employees to be disciplined, and we also want our soldiers to strictly follow the discipline. This proves a point that how important is discipline in our life. Remember, we must all suffer one of the two things – the pain of discipline or the pain of regret/ disappointment for not being disciplined where it is needed most. Having outlined the importance of discipline, let us gauge how disciplined we are, when it comes to investment matters? We often wait for an opportune time when we are expected to have accumulated a sizeable or call it a respectable amount to invest. My experience indicates that such opportune time never comes and as a result most of the time we fail in our savings pursuit during the lifetime. On this I remember a famous saying which states that - ‘tomorrow never comes’ and this literally applies to the subject matter in hand. By taking a cue from the above statement one needs to comprehend two important things in order to achieve the goal of attaining self sufficiency in financially matters. The first thing goes with “discipline”, which on our part necessitates the creation of saving or a disposable surplus consistently. The second and equally important element is to determine ‘quantum’ of the disposable surplus. Though there is no clear cut parameter for a person to gauge what is the perfect size or the so called respectable amount for investment. However one needs to understand that a beginning can be made with any amount in hand, howsoever small it may be. The phrase –‘small amount’ is a quite subjective term which again differs from one person to another. For someone TZS. 1 Million may fall under the category of a small amount, while for another segment it may be a very big amount to afford. So depending on one’s income as well as expenditure levels, we can easily comprehend the quantum of investable surplus which is required to be created for onward investment. Having discovered an easy answer on the quantum of one’s investable surplus, the next equally difficult question is to determine the periodicity or what do we mean by the phrase - regular interval. This again depends on many factors e.g. for a daily wage earner the periodicity needed for savings/ investment can be taken on a per day basis, while for a regularly employed person the same could be on monthly basis. Similarly for a farmer, such interval will be determined based on the nature of crops he/she is growing and the timings [i.e. when output will be ready for sale], which may lead us to an interval of quarterly or half-yearly. When we apply the same principle to a business entity, this periodicity may finally drill down to be on yearly basis i.e. this is when a business entity finalizes its annual accounts and arrives at a surplus or a deficit [whatever the case may be]. You may be surprised to know that currently there are many well regulated schemes available in the country where money as low as TZS. 5,000/- can be invested by a common man on a daily basis pattern or at any other periodicity of their choice. At this juncture if somebody puts forth an argument that for many even creating an investable surplus of TZS. 5,000/- is beyond their reach. But one needs to understand a simple logic that such amount can still be created by making a paltry saving of say TZS. 500/- for 10 regular days. Therefore do not bother about the quantum of investable surplus, which in any case will get created if one is determined to do so. But what you really need to bother is to follow a disciplined approach religiously while investing. By following the above stated approach, one is privy to an important advantage of getting ‘averaging of returns’ on their investments, as average rates of returns are averages of periodic percentage returns. We all know that the movement of most financial markets is quite cyclical as well as unpredictable and thus one may end up timing its investments wrongly. However the impacts of such adverse market movements can easily be warded off, if one adopts a disciplined investment approach. Investments made at regular intervals make the volatility in the market work in your favour, as over a period of time these market fluctuations are generally averaged out. Moreover it is a proven fact that over a time investors who had followed a disciplined approach are the ones who normally reap the ‘maximization of returns’ on their investments. Even in a downward spiral market trend, these are the same category of investors who are impacted least. This is due to the application of ‘averaging of returns’ principle on their investments. Additionally, this approach will also derive the benefits of ‘Magic of Compounding’ to investors, as this is one of the potential ways to magnify your small savings into a sizeable amount. Remember, financial planning is not about having financial expertise and intense hard work. All it needs is the right approach and a bit of “discipline”. So take the first step now by investing small amounts at regular intervals, which I am sure would lead towards fulfilment of your dream of achieving ‘financial independence’ in every pursuits of your life. Cheers!!!