THE Southern African Development Community (SADC) is developing a comprehensive employment policy framework to promote pro-employment macro-economic policy coherence and coordination, which balances economic stability and employment creation. The Director of Infrastructure at SADC, Ms Mapolao Mokoena, said this at a media briefing in Dar es Salaam yesterday ahead of the 39th SADC summit this week. “High unemployment and underemployment, especially among the youth, as well as the prevalence of informality, were the most pressing labour market challenges for the region,” she said. The comprehensive employment policy will balance economic stability with regard to inflation, exchange rate and budget deficit. The social and human development cluster is mandated to ensure the availability of educated, skilled, healthy, productive human resources required for promoting investment, the efficiency and competitiveness of the region in the global economy, as well as improving the quality of lives of the region’s population. Furthermore, the SADC Employment and Labour Sector has commissioned a regional study of the youth labour markets to provide up to date information on youth employment trends and to guide policy action in response to economic transformation processes and their impact on youth employment. This will be concluded in March 2020. The SADC Decent Work Programme (2013/19) is being implemented in the region to address the four labour market dimensions of minimum labour standards, employment creation, social security and social dialogue. The programme has been domesticated by all the member states through Decent Work Country Programmes and has contributed to the advancement and respect for minimum labour standards in the region. “These efforts have led to active and productive participation of the regional social partners, the SADC Private Sector Forum and the Southern Africa Trade Union Coordinating Council within the SADC Employment and Labour Sector,” she said. This collaboration has translated into a generalised climate of industrial peace and harmony, which has contributed to the sustenance of a conducive environment for investment and economic growth. A follow up of the SADC Decent Work Programme is to be developed as one of the operational tools to implement the envisaged SADC employment policy that is under development.