THE government of Tanzania yesterday requested the High Court of South Africa (Gauteng Local Division) to lift its ruling for the seizure of Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) aircraft in South Africa. The court reserved its judgment, which would be delivered later Deputy Solicitor General, Dr Ally Possi, led a team of state lawyers from Tanzania to present grounds before the High Court of South Africa (Gauteng Local Division) in proceedings against the seizure of the aircraft. He was accompanied by Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Damas Ndumbaro, who is also a lawyer by profession and an Advocate of the High Court, Principal State Attorney Vicent Tango, who is also the Director of Litigation within the Solicitor General’s Office. Other members of the team include Principal State Attorney Gabriel Malata, who is also the Commissioner of Labour and ATCL State Attorney Job Mrema. They teamed up with their South African counterparts, including Advocate Ngcukaitobi to challenge the seizure order. The South African Court conducted a hearing session with state lawyers arguing that the seizure of Airbus 220-300 was unlawful and, thus, requested the court to lift the seizure order. They submitted that the order to impound the ATCL aircraft was wrongly granted against the government. “We have shown that the order to impound Air Tanzania’s Airbus A220-300 was wrongly granted against the government of Tanzania and that it should be lifted,” Advocate Ngcukaitobi told the court. According to the submissions, the lawyers found it unacceptable that they heavily relied on a legal opinion presented by businessman Hermanus Steyn instead of adhering to an order made by the High Court of Tanzania. It was argued that what the businessman was required to do instead was to appeal against the High Court of Tanzania. The state lawyers submitted that the Tanzanian court’s ruling had never been set aside. Businessman counsel Roger Wakefied insisted that a prima facie case existed and that the trial court should determine the merits of the case and prospects of success. The South African court issued the highly contested ruling on August 21, 2019 after considering exparte a notice of motion (attachment and edictal citation) lodged by the businessman against eight respondents, including the government of Tanzania. Other respondents are ATCL, the Airport Company of South Africa Limited, Director of South African Civil Aviation Authority, Air Traffic Navigation Services COS Limited and three individuals, Mr Sibusiso Nkabinde, Mr Kgomotso Molefi and Mr Patrick Sithole. In the application filed on August 21, 2019 under a certificate of urgency and supported by affidavits of Mr Martin Steyn and Bianka Pritorius, the businessman under services of Werksman’s Attorneys requested for attachment of any ATCL’s aircraft as part or enforcement of an arbitral award. Such award of $36,375,672.81 was granted in favour of the businessman on July 9, 2010 by Judge Josephat Mackanja (retired) of the High Court of Tanzania. In the order, the South African court restrained the three individuals and Air Traffic Navigation Services from granting any permission or clearance necessary to authorise the departure of the aircraft sought to be attached until such time as the aircraft was released from attachment by the court order. There are facts that suggest that after the issuance of the arbitral award, there were negotiations engaged by the two parties, which led to a settlement deed for about $30m and subsequently the government of Tanzania paid a bigger amount to settle the claim.