NMB Bank has established a lactation room that will provide space for nursing mothers working with the Bank to express breast milk for their babies. The room will among other things help working moms at the bank pump and preserve breast milk for their babies during working hours. The move, according to the NMB management, is to help mothers to transition well after maternity leave. Speaking during the launching ceremony of the nursing room at NMB headquarters in Dar es Salaam, the Chairperson of NMB Women Arise Network Ms Linda Tegisa, said the establishment of the room is an initiative set by the bank to support women in carrying up their roles at the workplace and nursing their babies. “We are very grateful to the management of the bank for setting up the initiative to support women especially those with babies,” she said adding that the move expresses strong commitment by the employer to support women in nursing their babies without missing at the workplace. Ms Tegisa urged other financial institutions and others to establish nursing rooms and help the working mothers express breast milk for their babies in order to avoid unnecessary misunderstandings that may arise between the working moms and their employer. “Many working mothers face many challenges when it comes to balancing breastfeeding with tackling their job req requirements… having a nursing room at the workplace is an important initiative to break the challenges,” she said. On the other hand, the Head of Innovation of the Bank Ms Josina Njambi, said the launched nursing rooms contain all important facilities to enable moms at the bank meet and breastfeed their babies, pump and preserve milk. The rooms contains comfortable chairs that allow working mothers to sit up straight to pump milk, a refrigerator for storing breast milk and a sink to rinse out parts with soaps and towel among other necessities. The World Health Organisation (WHO), recommends feeding babies on breast milk exclusively for the first six months of their lives. This means babies should only feed on breast milk and nothing else. According to 2016 Demographic Health Survey, Tanzania has made progress by getting 59.2 per cent number of children who breastfeed. Reports suggest that breastfeeding saves 823,000 deaths among children under five annually. Meanwhile, the bank has donated 507 desks worth 45m/- to nine primary schools in Kwimba District as it pledges to continue supporting the government efforts to provide social service, reports Pius Rugonzibwa from Kwimba. Receiving some of the donated desks on behalf of the District Commissioner (DC), on Tuesday, the Misungwi District Administrative Secretary (DAS), Ally Nyakia said development stakeholders like NMB were crucial in attaining development agenda. He said the donation of the desks came at a time the District needed more support in improving education sector which needs the contribution from every partner wishing to join the government efforts towards bringing social advancement to people. “The donations like this one we have received from NMB are important as the government is inching closer to attaining middle-income economy status,” he said. Mr Nyakia challenged all civil servants in the district to join different banking schemes offered by NMB since doing so will give it more powers to pour supports in different social projects. He commended the bank for bringing its services closer to the people and challenged it to open a branch in Sumve township whose residents are forced to travel almost 4 0 km to Ngudu town to access banking services. However, the DAS asked the people to cultivate a spirit of contributing to different projects implemented in their locality without necessarily depending on donors. Handing over part of the desks, NMB Acting Manager for the Lake Zone, Amos Mubusi said so far the bank has spent more than 500m/-out of 1bn/-it set aside for community services for this year throughout the country. “Although the government is doing extraordinarily better in uplifting social services and other sectors for people’s development, NMB finds obliged to chip in and compliment that good work hence these donations,” said Mr Mubusi. He said the bank will consider a request on having a branch in Sumve township but was of the suggestion an area needed a competent super wakala to offer the services on its behalf rather than building a physical structure and deploying staffs which were not economically viable. Her mentioned the nine primary schools that will benefit from the donated desks as Mhalo, Sangu, Mwankulwe, Luhala, Budushi, Bumyengeja, Mwabaratulu, Kabale, and Ng’wambisu with each getting between 55 and 58 desks. Earlier, the District Education Officer (Technical Education), Vedastus Nyambalije said Kwimba District had more than 118,000 students in 151 public primary schools which translates to the needs of more than 33,500 desks. He said before the NMB donations the district had around 27,727 desks and the deficit of 6,978 desks which has now been reduced to 5,280 desks. Mr Nyambalije appealed for more donations from the bank and other development stakeholders since there were other crucial areas that needed to be supported mentioning them as staff houses, classrooms, furniture, pit latrines and many others.