IT might seem to be an ordinary matter to the majority of Tanzanians, but to some, especially in other countries, it is not. Seeing retired Presidents Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Benjamin Mkapa and Jakaya Kikwete, Abeid Aman Karume and other former dignitaries seated together during the 39th Summit of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), which ended in Dar es Salaam last week, prompted a comment from Namibian President and then outgoing SADC Chairperson Hage Geingob. After he glanced at them following the summit and seated together at Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JINCC), President Geingob said: “Tanzania has always been teaching us how to do things.” However, he did not go further. Analysts, including academicians, who volunteered to share their views with regard to President Geingob’s remarks, most of them said the Namibian Head of State was eager to see other SADC member states adopt a culture of the peaceful transfer of power from one President to the other to maintain peace and tranquility in the region. Dr Respicius Shumbusho from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM)’s Political Science Department said the number one lesson to the SADC and other African member states was the fact that Tanzania’s peaceful state was like an isolated Island amidst the troubled African states. “The country has for years enjoyed peaceful political transition from one leader to another. The next leader always learns from his predecessor what went wrong and what went right to avoid landing into useless conflicts,” he said. He added: “Africa’s enemy to peace is more from within the continent than from outside. President Geingob’s statement has to be considered by other African Heads of State that if we are to win the fight, then we have to know that if it is possible for Tanzania, it is also possible for other nations if at all they ask themselves how it is possible for Tanzania and take a leaf from it to make it also possible for them.” Former Deputy Rector of the Centre for Foreign Relations and Economic Diplomacy expert, Prof Wetengere Kitojo, said President John Magufuli’s determination to promote economic development through industrialisation was a lesson that if the country was at peace, then it could use its natural resources effectively rather than continue depending on foreign aid. He noted that if other SADC member countries learnt how to combat corruption a Tanzanian way and promote peaceful transition, then they could be freed from a dependency syndrome and exploitation from former colonial masters, who always kept on findings ways of instilling enmity in African leaders so that they could divide and rule them. “As a country, Tanzania has chosen its type of democracy, which does not end at the ballot box, but changing leaders peacefully and the incumbent President sitting at a roundtable with his predecessors to advise him. So, in Tanzania’s type of democracy, leaders are not considered to be demigods, but people’s servants.” For his part, Mr Christopher Kalata, a pastor and peace and conflict resolution expert based in Dar es Salaam, maintained that peace was not a one-leader effort, but the concerted effort of a team composed of the council of elders from whom the incumbent President gets wisdom. “President Geingob’s statement should open SADC and other African states’ mind to realise that in Tanzania the incumbent President has the support of elders championed by past leaders, who instead of landing into unnecessary conflicts, they sit a roundtable, share wisdom for the nation’s benefit. This country is with the rich back-up of wisdom from the elders, who act as advisers,” he said. Pastor Kalata went on saying that embracing the elders’ wisdom like Tanzania does was the only way of working towards social development by using locally available resources.