THE Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Environment and Union), Mr George Simbachawene has reaffirmed the need to protect ecosystem in Kihansi Basin for the benefit of the current and future generations. The Minister made the revelation here while touring the area to inspect environment protection activities including their anticipated reintroduction of Kihansi Spray Toads (KST), into their natural habitat. “I commend the current research activities at the Basin (Kihansi Basin) because its ecology is unique and very crucial for survival of current and future generations,” he further said. Equally, he urged researchers to continue with their work and submit their findings and recommendations to the Ministry for formulation of laws to sustain the Basin’s ecology. “Kihansi has many unique features including the KST which are found only in Kihansi and unique butterflies and Kihansi Coffee, which are also unique to this area,” said Simbachawene. The Minister pointed out that Tanzanians ought to thank God for such a unique ecology, which if well promoted could bring tourists who will contribute significantly in the national revenue. “Given its potentials and ecological uniqueness, it is important that every stakeholder plays his or her role to make sure that the Basin is protected and benefit the current and future generations,” he said. In another development, he commended the good work being done by the National Environment Management Council (NEMC), Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), University of Dar es Salaam and Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI) and other stakeholders to ensure that the ecology was protected. “I have been informed that this project comes to an end in December, this year and due to its importance I want you (stakeholders), to meet ahead of the deadline and discuss on how to sustain all the good work you have been done,” said the Minister. However, he called upon on residents living near River Kihansi catchment areas to make sure that they play a role in protecting the banks, and ensure that their activities do not damage the environment.