AS Dar Es Salaam readies to host 16 African Presidents and other delegates of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), this weekend, Dare es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DG C), has also opened door to the visitors seeking to play at its multi-sportive premises. DGC Chairman Walter Chipeta said in the city yesterday that his club has all it takes to give visitors a place to engage in sports. “ On behalf of DG C members, I extend a warm invitation to delegates of SADC to access the exclusive Club multi-faceted sports activities on a daily basis during their stay in the country,” he said. Established initially as a horse riding facility, over a hundred years ago, Dar Gymkhana has evolved into the premier sports and social sports club in the country. At a hundred years, it is one of the oldest and largest sports complexes in Africa and Chipeta said it will be an honour to host SADC delegates. Stressing, he said the sporting facilities that club offers include; 18-hole golf course, football field, half Olympic-size swimming pool, a cricket field, 14 tennis courts, 6 squash courts, 2 snooker tables, gymnasium, kids playground and changing rooms. Chipeta said that the club also has a social actively venue with a newly refurbished restaurant and a bar at the main clubhouse plus BBQ hut and a bar at squash section which can be available for the visitors too. “ We are excited to invite the SADC delegates to experience our excellent heritage, in ensuring that our visitors during the SADC Summit enjoy their stay in the country. We felt that it was necessary to introduce a day pass to the Club for the delegates to access the Club facilities on daily basis using their conference ID and the Club is well prepared to welcome them,” he noted. “ A visit can never be an intrusion, it can only translate to both activity and relaxation,” he added. The chairman said that fliers have been distributed to the Julius Nyerere Convection Centre to ensure the delegates get all the necessary information about the Club. However, he said in addition that their facilities are maintained to the highest standards and there are two on-duty attendants on every sports section, including lifeguards on the swimming pool at all times. “ We invite the delegates to visit and experience what brings value to our prestigious Club.”