TANZANIA Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) has vowed to use the upcoming international aviation security symposium to promote Mt Kilimanjaro and other tourist attractions found in the country. TCAA Director General for the Disposition of Aviation Safety and for the Licensing of Aviation Personnel in Tanzania Hamza Johari said they were banking on the high profile meeting scheduled for Montreal, Canada, later next month to attract more tourists to come and visit the country, particularly Africa’s highest peak. “We’ll use the rare occasion to promote tourist attractions, highlight to delegates the country’s beauty and challenges of conquering Africa’s highest mountain,” assured Mr Johari after his descent from the mountain at the weekend. Mr Johari, who led a group of 21 climbers for a five-day expedition to mark the International Civil Aviation Organisation of the United Nations (ICAO) 75th anniversary noted that exploring the mountain’s beauty of natural wonder would be any tourist’s desire and a once-in-a-lifetime experience, adding that the country’s aviation authority would be honoured to take up the task of marketing the world’s highest free-standing mountain. “The global symposium will be a crucial platform to highlight the beauty of the sight-seeing tourist attraction site,” insisted the TCAA Chief. The third annual Global Aviation Security Symposium 2019 (AVSEC2019) will highlight ICAO Global Aviation Security Plan implementation success stories, innovative approaches and best practices from member states and industry stakeholders. It will also feature speeches, panels, activities and real-time polls will focus on the challenges encountered in improving AVSEC and mechanisms employed to address those challenges. For her part, Kilimanjaro National Park (Kinapa) Conserver Angela Nyaki commended the country’s aviation watchdog for its zeal of marketing Tanzania’s tourist attractions, further challenging the authority to inculcate a culture of climbing the mountain. “Your expedition will be remembered for a great team spirit, do be tired of climbing Mt Kilimanjaro. If anything, you should make it a habit,” she challenged. Mt Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa and the highest free-standing mountain in the world, about 4,900 metres from its base, and 5,895 metres above sea level. It is one of the continent’s magnificent sights and has three main volcanic peaks Kibo, Mawenzi and Shira.