PERMANENT Secretary in Ministry of Water and Irrigation Prof Kitila Mkumbo has ordered all water contracts entered by regional authorities to be moved to the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) to ensure efficiency and accountability. The plan, according to the PS, will remove any provisions that might be detrimental to public interest. Addressing a forum of regional commissioners and regional administrative secretary here, the senior government official said the state projects entail more funding to improve water access and supply and hence the need for closer monitoring and supervision. He announced September 30 as the deadline for all regional administrative secretaries to ensure all such water contracts are transferred to the state agency. “All regional commissioners and administrative secretaries must ensure proper supervision of all the funds channeled for the purpose of improving water access and supply in the communities,” he said. The water sector receives financial boost from various sources, including the government through its water fund, World Bank, and the UK supported Payment for Results (P4R) project currently implemented in 17 regions. All districts benefiting from the project are expected to receive at least 1.2billion shillings or $600,000 for water projects. This is a huge amount of money for a district and must be well supervised to improve access to water service in the rural communities,” he said, explaining that the ministry will be updating regional commissioners and administrative secretaries on the financial reports released through the rural water supply and sanitation agency. The government has also allocated 169bn/- through P4R project and the Water Fund where 65 per cent of the budget must be spent on improving access of the precious liquid in the villages. Giving more details on the transfer of the contracts, the PS said the process involves all activities and duties which were commissioned by water units at every council. At least 80 water engineers at district level were left out when the government established RUWASA promoting the remaining ones to district managers as an effort to fill the gap for the agency’s work force. Ruwasa is a newly established agency responsible for the development and sustainable management of water supply and sanitation projects and water service delivery in rural areas. According to government figures until April this year, there were some 86,700 water connection points out of 131,370 points servicing only 25.3million people instead of 32.8 million people.