INDUSTRIALISATION development processes in Siha district has got a great impetus following the electrification of more than 50 industries in two of its industrial areas. Briefing the Deputy Minister for Energy, Ms Subira Mgalu over the weekend, Tanesco Manager for Siha District, Mr Ismael Salum, said they had already supplied electricity for Matadi and Mwangaza industrial areas situated in Ngarenairobi area. “We have already supplied electricity in all the 19 industries in Matadi industrial area and 32 out of the expected 41 that are based at the Mwangaza industrial area; Most of them are timber utilisation factories,” he said. The Deputy Minister, Mgalu hailed the Tanesco management in Siha District and that of the Kilimanjaro Region in general for the process that she said was the answer to the government’s policy of electrifying industrial areas so as to improve the national economy through industrialisation. “Availability of electricity in the industrial sector actively promotes industrialisation, agricultural produce processing and the country’s economic development in general, therefore what you did here need to be commended and emulated by others countrywide,” she said. Ms Mgalu said that government had and continues to disburse a lot of funds through various electricity projects with the intention of realizing government dream of making Tanzania an industrial nation. The government will continue to exert more efforts aimed at making sure that it meets the growing demands of electricity services demands, which she said continued to grow every day. The Deputy Minister hailed the Siha District authorities for creating industrial areas, whereby she said small and big industries were key economic drivers for the nation’s development. Speaking on behalf of his fellow industrialists in the area, the Chairman of the Saw Millers in the area, Mr Humphrey Nnko, said that the availability of electricity in the two industrial areas would reduce the costs of their operations. “In the past the costs of producing various types of timber products were very high because of using diesel engines which made us buy diesel fuel at high costs; The availability of electricity will minimize the costs. “This will not only benefit us as industrialists but also the consumers of our products and this is because we will be able to reduce the prices of our products, which we can now produce at low costs after getting electricity supplies,” he said.