COLLABORATIVE efforts from various stakeholders are needed to increase and promote investment in the production of round potatoes in Tanzania. The National Coordinator of Round Potatoes Research Unit, from Tanzania Agricultural Research institute, Uyole centre (TARI Uyole) in Mbeya Region, Dr Juma Kayeke said that with estimates Tanzania produces over 240,000 tonnes per hectares of the crop annually. “We want to increase the production of round potatoes in Tanzania. However the main challenges are pests, diseases, climate change, among others. We want support from various stakeholders in order to disseminate modern agricultural practices and increase yields and as well raise income of smallholder farmers in the country,” he stressed. He pointed out that Tanzania farmers often harvest between 7 to 10 tonnes per hectare, well below the 30 tonnes, which can now be realized with better quality seed potatoes available and improved farm practices. According to him, Njombe region is the leading area in Tanzania in the production of round potatoes, where 90 per cent of the crop is cultivated in the northern highlands regions of the country. Dr Kayeke mentioned some regions in the country which cultivate the crop as Tanga, Arusha, Kagera, Kigoma and Mara. “The Highlands areas are most suitable for round potato production and the most suitable areas are between 1700 and above 2000 metres above the sea level. Although highland areas are the most suitable for round potatoes, the stuff can be grown even in areas below 1700 metres”, he explained. On her side, another round potatoes researcher from TARI Uyole Dr Dora Mende said that most of farmers in Tanzania are using poor farming methods, which lead them to low production and income. Dr Mende noted that in addition to the round potatoes being an important food crop, it was also an important income earner to many families. Dr Mende noted further that the crop is rich in vitamin A, calcium, potassium, iron and other nutrients important to human beings. “The production of round potatoes decline due to lack of improved varieties, among other factors. Also the number of stakeholders, who are investing in this crop, is very small due to low awareness of many people on the importance of round potatoes,” she added. Commenting, TARI Uyole Centre Director Dr Tulole Bucheyeki said that farmers should adhere to good agricultural practices they are being taught in order to increase their yields and production. On his side, TARI Director General (DG) Geoffrey Mkamilo said that the institution was also engaged on education and technologies share aimed at reaching farmers and other agricultural s