WITH the exception of flamboyant Proline of Uganda, teams from East African Community (EAC), face tricky going in both CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup, after a shaky start in their first leg matches. The Ugandan youthful side were the only colourful side over the weekend with a convincing 3-0 victory over Master Security of Malawi in Confederation Cup at Lugogo Stadium in Kampala. Opposite to bright colours of Proline are Zanzibar envoys KMKM, who had the worst home results in their CAF Champions League campaign. KMKM lost 2-0 to Primeiro de Agosto at the Amaan Stadium. But the team’s coach Ame Msimu courageously said they intend to turn tables in their return leg in Angola. Uganda and Kagame Cup champions; KCCA and Azam FC of Tanzania also narrowly lost away, but they are not in volatile situation. KCCA lost 3-2 away to African Stars of Namibia in their CAF Champions League first leg, while Azam suffered a 1-0 loss to Fasil Ketema of Ethiopia in the CAF Confederation Cup in Addis Ababa. Both teams, however, can advance do they win by a 2-0 margin. There are 13 teams from EAC block engaged in both Champions League and the Confederation Cup this season, but none of them is very sure of advancing besides the upcoming Proline. Draws in 1-1 or 0-0 dominated much in both home and away matches the EAC envoys played. Tanzanian football giants; Simba, Young Africans are among the teams that shared spoils with their opponents in their CAF Champions league campaigns. Simba stamped a barren draw with UD Songo of Mozambique away in Beira, while their traditional rivals were forced to a 1-1 by Township Rollers of Botswana at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. CAF Confederation Cup debutants from Tanzania KMC also shared spoils with AS Kigali of Rwanda on Saturday in goal-dry game. Rwanda’s giants Rayon Sport were also held 1-1 at home by visiting El Hillal of Sudan while Burundian envoys Aigle Noir also drew 1-1 with Kenyan champions Gor Mahia in Bujumbura in the CAF Champions League game. Another Kenyan side, Bandari FC drew 0-0 with Al Ahly Shandi of Sudan at Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi. Zanzibar envoys Malindi fired blanks with Mogadishu City in a goal-less Confederation Cup match at the Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar. Meanwhile, Proline’s Ivan Bogere will go down in Uganda football history as the first player to score a hat-trick in a continental club game he steered Proline to a 3-0 win over Malawi side Masters Security in their preliminary round first leg clash of the Total CAF Confederation Cup on Saturday in Lugogo. Bogere put the hosts in an early lead on 17 minutes. A brace later in the second half secured the 3-0 victory giving the hosts a huge advantage ahead of the return leg due 23rd August 2019 in Malawi. “First, I thank the Almighty God for this result. Then our managers and the coach who have always been by our side to ensure we are fit for the game. The coach played the biggest role behind this victory. He had to intensify the training knowing that we are going for a big stage,” said youngster Bogere, who only recently was playing for Buwekula in the Buganda Kingdom tournament dubbed Masaza Cup. The return leg matches in both the Champions League and Confederation Cup will be staged two weeks after the first leg matches.