PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein has said that tourism sector has created more than 28,000 direct jobs and 60,000 related indirect ones, a milestone in their economic growth. He further said that the statistics shows that many nationals here are benefiting from the sector, where a 2018 study on Policy Effectiveness, conducted by Commission for Tourism in collaboration with UNICEF noted that tourism plays a big role in poverty reduction in the Island. “We have been progressing in terms of foreign money collection from tourism. The Amount has climbed from USD 157.1 million in 2011 to USD 520 million last year. This indicates that we have a workable policy,” added Dr Shein, while launching a new ‘Five Star’ Hotel -Madinat-al- Bahri in Zanzibar. He said that respective authorities should be innovative enough to attract `more tourists by promoting areas, where few of them visit including finding other ways of advertising them in both Unguja and Pemba. In another development, the President commended the recent agreement reached between ‘TouchRoad Company from China and them to bring more tourists up from 2018 when 8,127 of them visited the Island to 18,127 by end of next year. According to the data from the government, tourism contributes 27 percent to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and more than 80 percent of the foreign currency earning. That was said by the Finance and Planning Minister Ambassador Mohamed Ramia Abdiwawa, adding that his government was committed to promoting tourism because of its importance to the economy. Reached for a comment, MrRustamali Shivji-owner of the new Hotel at the outskirts of the Stone town said he was happy to invest in Zanzibar following a request made to him in 2004 by Dr Shein (then Vice-President of Tanzania) when he inaugurated ‘New Dodoma Hotel. Meanwhile, Dr Shein has said that his government has been doing a lot for its nationals in terms of achieving their development goals, although, not properly communicated in public. “People what to get feedback about the tax they pay. They must be told the achievements,” Dr Shein said, here when he met with the Ministry of Water, Land and Energy leadership on their performance in the past quarter of the year and implementing their 2019/2020 work plan. The President commended the Ministry’s executives and leaders for successfully implementing some of the development plans, citing them as on water, electricity and fuel supply. Equally, he advised the Ministries and public offices to inform the public through media, saying: “We are here to serve people to the highest level of their expectation. Be close to Journalists to be informed from time to time on the achievement.” In another development, he commended the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and the Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB), for good work in collecting taxes, which enable the government to implement its development projects, saying: “Funds availability is no longer an issue to implement some of the projects, but the challenge remain is expenditure.” On his side, Chief Secretary Dr Abdulhamid Yahya Mzee commended the Zanzibar Water Authority (ZAWA) and ‘Zanzibar Utility Regulatory Authority (ZURA), for good work in ensuring that people get water and fuel regularly.