Simba came out fire blazing to tear off JKT Tanzania in their opening match of the 2019/2020 season at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Striker Meddie Kagere started from where he had left in the last season, scoring a brace, while the newly signed promising striker, Miraji Athumani ‘Madenge’ netted one as Simba cruised to a comfortable victory. Substitute Edward Songo scored late for JKT Tanzania, but it was just a mere consolation. As expected, Simba entered the field playing like a wounded bull following a heartbreaking exit from the CAF Champions league, after being forced to a 1-1 draw at home by UD Songo of Mozambique at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday and dumped out on an away goal rule. The Msimbazi Reds knew that they needed to win at any cost so as to restore lost faith of their fans and supporters. And, it was a strong start for Simba, who just a minute from the kick off netted the opener through Kagere. The last season top scorer with 23 goals has continued with his poaching instincts as he fired home from a close range after receiving a low pass from Muzamiru Yassin. As time went by, JKT Tanzania’s tail was up. JKT’s attackers Danny Lyanga and Ally Bilal also stretched fragile Simba central defence of Erasto Nyoni and Tairone Da Silva. A notable chance for JKT Tanzania came in the 9th minute, when Lyanga ought to have scored an equaliser but he failed to take advantage of a defensive mix up to slot home. In the 37th minute, Simba nearly stretched their lead but Da Silva’s header was cleared off the line by Mohamed Fakhi, with goalkeeper, Abdulrahman Mohamed well beaten. After the break, Kagere found his second of the day and the second for Simba in the 58th minute, after completing a spade work by Muzamir, who dribbled past two defender and set the deadly Ugandan born, Rwandese international striker to power home. With two goals advantage, Simba called out Deo Kanda and introduced Miraji Athumani in the 60th minute, while JKT Tanzania brought in Edward Songo for Ally Bilal and the duo scored on either ends. In the 62nd minute Lyanga missed a clear chance to pull one back after seeing his shot on target pushed away by goalkeeper, Manula for an abortive corner kick. Two minutes later, on-fire Kagere almost scored the first hat-trick of the season but his shot hit the woodwork before defenders cleared their lines. Coach Patrick Aussems brought in Sharaf Shiboub for impressive Hassan Dilunga in the 71st lead. The introduction of the Sudanese midfielder paid almost immediately, as in the 73rd minute, he released Kagere down the right side and the striker’s high ball inside the box met Athuman, whose looping header beat the keeper for Simba’s third goal. Simba also introduced playmaker, Ibrahim Ajib in the 78th minute for Chama amid thunderous applause from Simba fans. Ajib featured for the defending champions for the first time since rejoining the club from the rivals Young Africans at the close of last season. With three minute remaining, Simba were punished for poor defending. Nyoni’s long pass was poorly flicked by Fraga and Songo latched onto the ball, charged in the 18 yards before releasing a powerful shot that took a slight bounce in front of the keeper Manula to sail into the back of the nets. Ajib was presented a chance to score the fourth for Simba but fluffed with a ball in from Muzamir. After yesterday’s game, the league breaks to pave way for Fifa 2022 World Cup qualifiers assignment in which Taifa Stars will face Burundi away in Bujumbura on Wednesday. It will resume on September 14th this year.