MEMBER countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), have been advised to take a leaf from Tanzania by embarking on the financing of own major infrastructural projects to facilitate and boost intra-trade activities in the region. Director General of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), Deusdedit Kakoko said this yesterday at the ongoing 4th SADC Annual Industrialisation Week forum taking place at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre in Dar es Salaam until August 9, this year. Mr Kakoko pointed out that the time had come for the SADC region to embark on the financing of its major infrastructural projects because some were major projects and it was difficult to secure straight private sector investments. “The development of the SADC region will depend on trade and industrial growth all of which requires facilitation of efficient infrastructural development. Tanzania is already investing in its infrastructure by implementing major projects like the Standard Gauge Railway, an investment of $250m has been done in its six major ports, which are scattered across the country, among others,” he said. He noted that Global Infrastructure Investment Projections showed the African continent needed about $6tri to develop its infrastructural network by 2030. He went on to note that the infrastructural projects particularly transport led by 40 per cent followed by electricity, telecom and water, whereas for Tanzania all these components constituted about 50 per cent of the budget. “This demonstrates the commitment of the government in the uptake of this crucial role for investment in infrastructure is necessary to enhance mutual and industrial development,” he noted. Commenting on whether the financing of infrastructural development employed funds from either the private or public sector, Mr Kakoko said there was clear evidence that public funds could either emanate from the government budget or public companies NSSF, PSSSF and others. He explained that much as governments strove after inviting investors to come and invest in infrastructural projects the response had not been very positive unlike areas such as mining even though the cost, time and risks were similar. Thus, it has become difficult for governments to depend on such kind of investment, the best way is to indulge in revenue collection and ensure the money was spent as intended in implementing infrastructural projects. He, however, noted that the role played by the local private sector could not be underestimated. “There is a need to devise a clear strategy in the implementation of projects so long as it is focused on productivity, low costs and maximum security.” National Development Corporation (NDC), Managing Director, Prof. Damian Gabagambi, referred to studies, which had identified crucial factors to be taken by countries in their development, including increased productivity, population increase, a good supply of raw materials, external and internal security. Others are infrastructural development, a welleducated workforce, nonrestrictive institutional arrangements, effective banking systems and a proper mindset. “A good infrastructural development reduces the cost of doing business, infrastructure reduces the cost of production, increase efficiency in the delivery of goods and services and increase productivity.