DEPUTY Minister of State in the President’s Office re- sponsible for Public Service Management and Good Governance, Dr Mary Mwanjelwa, has reiterated the government’s commitment to promote people’s lives through capacity building, noting that implementation of the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF), programme has improved the lives of poor households and the poverty situation in the country. The fifth phase gov- ernment under President Dr John Magufuli was keen to improve lives of the majority Tanzanians. TASAF is among projects initiated by the government to uplift lives of the majority poor, “she said. She also appealed to families which benefitted from TASAF alms to use them wisely to improve their livelihoods. She tipped on the importance of coming up with small scale projects like piggery and goat’ rearing to improve their incomes. She made the appeal today (Friday) at Kabale ka Ngaiza Street, in Bukoba Municipal Council. She was apparently pleased by efforts done by one of the widows, Mrs Christina Rwezaura (85), who managed to con- struct a modern house and also owns three goats in her farm. “Such efforts should be emulated. People should not keep on complaining without doing anything,” she said. According to Deputy Minister Mwanjelwa, some of the beneficiaries, includ- ing widows, had formed saving groups (vikoba), where she said that what was needed is to equip them with entrepreneurship skills to enable them manage well the funds and eventually graduate from poverty. Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary, Prof Faustin Kamuzora, on behalf of Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti, while presenting a report, said about 63,324 poor households were enrolled under TASAF lll. Out of the number, about 31,221 households (49.3 per cent) had initiated farming activities, while 4,585 house- holds (7.2 per cent), had initi- ated small projects. “The beneficiaries also utilized the funds to raise 141 heads of cattle, 19,955 goats, 77,560 chicken and 5,172 pigs. About 129,294 corrugated iron sheets were bought using Tasaf funds, enabling 2,488 households to construct modern houses. About 37,759 households were enrolled un- der the Community Health Fund (CHF),” he said. Mr Gaguti urged beneficiaries to be creative in coming up with small projects that would boost family incomes, and further called upon the community to take advantage of the funds issued by the government, donors and various financial institutions so that the money could make positive changes in their lives.