THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar ers Salaam has given the prosecution and defence three days to determine the way forward of the 7bn/- economic and money laundering trial of four prominent figures, including renowned advocate, Dr Ringo Tenga. Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba gave the order yesterday when the case came for mention. Earlier, State Attorney Jacqueline Nyantory informed the court that investigations into the matter had been completed a long time ago. According to the attorney, the prosecution at the moment is in final stages of compiling necessary documents before taking the matter to the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime High Court Division for trial. However, defence counsel Alex Mgongolwa requested the court to be given three days to discuss with their clients on the way forward instead of the case being adjourned to the normal 14 days as required by the law. The magistrate granted the defence counsel’s request and adjourned the trial for another mention on August 28, 2019. Other prominent figures facing the criminal charges are former Managing Director with Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) Peter Noni, Managing Director of Six Telecoms Company Limited Hafidh Shamte alias Rashid Shamte and the Company’s Chief Finance Officer Noel Chacha. They are charged in the case jointly with six Telecoms Company Limited on account of their positions in the company. Apart from Shamte and Chacha, the charge sheet indicates that Dr Tenga and Dr Noni are also directors of the tier one provider of Integrated Telecommunications Services Company. The prosecution alleges that the accused committed the offences on different dates between January 2014 and January 2016 within the city and region of Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that, to obtain financial or personal gains, the accused fraudulently under charged International Incoming Telecommunication Traffic at a rate below the minimum rate of $0.25 per minute. The prosecution alleges further that, within the same period, on account of their respective positions in the company, fraudulently and with intent to avoid payments, the accused failed to pay to Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) revenue amounting to $3,282,741.12. It is also alleged that, being officials with the company, the accused and the company failed to pay regulatory fees amounting to $466,010.07 to TCRA. The prosecution alleged also that, by their wilful act, the accused caused TCRA to suffer a pecuniary loss of $3,748,751.22. On money laundering charges, the prosecution alleges that, between January 2014 and January 2016 in the city, the accused acquired, used or administered money amounting to $3,282,741.12, while knowing or ought to have known that the money was the proceeds of a predicate offence of fraud. The prosecution also alleges that, within the same time, six Telecoms Company Limited used or administered money amounting to $3,282,741.12, while knowing or ought to have known that the money was the proceeds of a predicate offence of fraud and other related offences.