TANZANIAN basketball coach Bahati Mgunda said the Africa Under -14 girls team is ready to challenge for the Jr. NBA Global Championship title. Youth from around the world are set to meet in Orlando, USA from next Tuesday to Sunday for second Jr. NBA Global Championship. And, ahead of the event, Mgunda, who has been tasked to lead Africa girls’ team, said that his charges are looking forward for the challenge. The team had a weeklong intensive training camp in Thies, Senegal before departing to Orlando ready for the battle. Mgunda noted that in addition to the tournament, teams will receive guidance and training from professional players. Mgunda, a former national team player said it is an honour to lead Africa youth in the tournament. However, Mgunda said it was unfortunate that no any Tanzanian player managed to make it into the squad, challenging the local youngsters to pull up their socks. “There is no Tanzanian player in the team, my prayer and dream is to have representative in future, we have talented youth and with current efforts hopefully we will get some,” he said. He added that the tournament, which runs August 6-11 at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex at Walt Disney World in Orlando, features the top 13- and 14-year-old boys and girls basketball players from around the world. 16 teams from eight global regions: Africa, Asia Pacific, Canada, China, Europe & Middle East, India, Latin America and Mexico will battle for the title. According to Mgunda 32 teams, which will be split into boys’ and girls’ divisions, emerged from the more than 15,000 kids in 75 countries, who competed to reach the Global Championship. “It will be a wonderful experience to lead Africa team against the rest of the world. I’m looking forward for the tournament to start,” said Mgunda. The tournament will not only crown a champion but also reinforce the Jr. NBA’s core values of teamwork, respect, determination and community by prioritising life skills development and player health and wellness. It will also provide the players with memorable experiences off the court according to organisers. “The goal is to elevate the youth basketball experience,” David Krichavsky, Head of Youth Basketball Development at the NBA was quoted saying. The programme for youth aged 6-14 focuses on its core values and teaching basketball fundamentals so boys and girls learn the right way to play the game. It is reaching 52 million boys and girls in 75 countries this year. Still, Krichavsky could see something else was needed. The players will also attend seminars that teach life skills and other positive values. Last year Dwyane Wade surprised the players and spent time answering their questions about life and basketball – and he’ll be back this year along with current and former NBA and WNBA players Mike Conley, Breanna Stewart, Swin Cash, Bo Outlaw and Nick Anderson, among others.