CRDB Bank has said they are expecting to generate more profit this year based on stellar performance recorded in the first half of this year. The lender, one of the largest in the country, said based on the first six months of the year, where pre-tax profit jumped 98 per cent to 86.65bn/-, they are in a strong position to post a good full-year results. The bank’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Abdulmajid Nsekela told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that they were expecting better performance for the full year to boost shareholders return of investment. “So far our performance for [third quarter] looks promising and we hope to increase the level of dividend… the profit we made in first half is almost the entire amount we generated for whole of last year,” said Mr Nsekela. The CEO attributed the good performance in first half to improved business practices, coupled with strategic investments in government securities and increase earnings from forex dealings. “Our focus on operational efficiency and sales optimisation is paying off,” Mr Nsekela said. CRDB affirms that the bank’s continued pursuit for business excellence portends even greater financial performance in the second half or the year. “We are focusing on the customer and this means that we are re-engineering our products and services to respond to the changing needs in marketplace,” he said adding the bank is controlling 22 per cent of market share. The CEO says the Bank has instituted internal reforms which are aimed at improving service delivery and optimising processes for an enhanced customer experience. “We have reviewed critical areas of our operations and deployed a new business model that taps into the bank’s greatest strengths, while taking advantage of the opportunities in the market,” the CEO explained. The lender said the good performance enables it to lower non-performing loan ratio to 8.7 per cent from 13 per cent and targets to go below the industry benchmark of 5.0 per cent. During the quarter, the bank - together with its subsidiaries-continued to maintain a strong balance sheet with Group total assets appreciating by 8.0 to reach 6.38tri/-up from 5.93tri/-reported in the first quarter of this year. The Group loan portfolio witnessed a slight positive change to close at 3.18tri/-, representing an increase of 1.0 per cent from 3.16tri/-reported in first quarter. Total customer deposits increased by 15 per cent to 4.95tri/-, up from 4.32 tri/- reported in quarter one of this year, while net Interest Income increased by 30per cent to reach 258bn/-from 198bn/-. The bank more than doubled the number of its bank agents— FahariHuduma— from 4000 to 10,000 at the end of the first half in a bid to bring banking service closer to the customers.