THE government yesterday blamed some world top airline companies for falling domestic revenue collections, though expressed optimism that the situation will not be permanent. Permanent Secretary in Ministry of Transport, Dr Leonard Chamuriho told the Parliamentary watchdog Committee on Public Accounts (PAC), that some world best carrier Qatar Airways and Emirates as well as South African Airways had dropped their routes at Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar-es Salaam from twice to ones and that reduced revenue collections charged on landing and parking. “It’s unfortunate that Etihad Airways has moved to put on ice its entire destination into our country,” he told the committee, while responding to concern that revenue collection had dropped by over 2.68bn/-according to financial reports audited by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), in the year ended June 30, 2018. Apparently, the PS said the airline companies had reached a decision to reduce their flight frequency at the country’s largest airport following the government decision to limit foreign trips of civil servants. In another development, Tanzania Airport Authority (TAA), Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Julius Ndyamukama told the committee that the authority had signed a new deal with pay-take and MPK technology limited to upgrade parking systems at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), terminal I and II. The statement followed concern by members of the committee that the current system at the city’s busiest airport was not keeping pace with clients demand and hence required upgrade. A member of the committee and Kilindi MP, Omary Kigua (CCM), requested clarification on what was limiting the authority in charging its parking system, considering that some institutions such as the Aga Khan Hospital and Mlimani City Mall had fixed digital systems to monitor the parking flow. According to the CAG reports, parking at the airport had increased to 2.4bn/-in 2018 from 1.9bn/-in 2017. “This means that with increasing number of travelers, we expect more revenues from the parking slots at the airport,” noted Kigua. However, TAA CEO said that the government had fixed modern system at the terminal III and that the new contract will also see the terminal I and II getting new parking system. Meanwhile the Committee Chairperson, Naghenjwa Kaboyoka ordered the Ministry and TAA to resubmit their financial books after noticing a series of contradicting statements. The committee also tasked TAA to submit all documents regarding the Kilimanjaro Airport Development Company (KADCO), after smelling fishy deals in its statements regarding revenues and operation at the country’s northern airport.