DEPUTY Minister of State in the President’s Office responsible for Public Service and Good Governance, Dr Mary Mwanjelwa, has strongly warned workers in public service to avoid ‘business as usual’ attitude in order to match the speed set by the fifth government under President John Magufuli. She issued the warning while addressing government workers at the Kagera Regional Commissioner’s Office on Friday. “Communication link between District Executive Directors (DED) and District Administrative Secretaries (DAS), has collapsed. DAS is a close adviser to the District Commissioner (DC), but it is sad that some of the DEDs do not inform the DAS on important decisions. This trend should stop forthwith, because it negatively affects government operations,” she said. Dr Mwanjelwa also cautioned DEDs in the country to ensure that before affecting transfers from one station to another, they ensure that the vacancy exists and a replacement was available. She further reminded them on the importance of timely data cleaning to minimize complaints raised by government workers, including late promotions. Assistant Regional Secretary (AS), responsible for Human Resources, Projectus Rugonzibwa, informed the Deputy Minister that government departments had a shortage of 172 workers while District Councils had a shortage of 9,013 cadres, including Village Executive Officers (VEO) and Ward Executive Officers (WEO). He also said that out of eight councils in the region, only one council had a District Administrative Secretary (DAS), and appealed to the government to allocate them in the vacant councils. Meanwhile, Dr. Mwanjelwa disclosed that all remaining villages in the Mainland and Zanzibar will be covered under Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF)-Phase 111. In Kagera Region, about 251 villages will be covered while about 63,324 poor households were enrolled under TASAF lll. Out of the number, about 31,221 households (49.3 per cent) had initiated farming activities while 4,585 households (7.2 per cent), had initiated business small projects. The beneficiaries also utilized the funds to raise 141 heads of cattle, 19,955 goats, 77,560 chicken and 5,172 pigs. About 129,294 corrugated iron sheets were bought using Tasaf funds, enabling 2,488 households to construct modern houses. About 37,759 households were enrolled under the Community Health Fund (CHF),” she said. A total of 42.221bn/-was disbursed under