TANZANIA has invited Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states to explore investment opportunities in the country’s mining sector, which has recently undergone massive reforms. The reforms, spearheaded by President John Magufuli who is set to assume the SADC chairmanship next week, have improved investment climate and government earnings from the natural resource. Mining Commission Statistician Chatila Wella told the ‘Daily News’ at the fourth SADC industrialisation week and exhibition in Dar es Salaam yesterday that investment climate in mining sector has improved compared to previous years. Ms Wella said that in the past both local and foreign investors were forced to use zonal offices to access information and process for licenses but currently the commission has set up offices in almost all regions where investors can process their licenses and access important information related to their businesses. “Investors can obtain extraction and exploration licenses from the regional offices on time if they submit all the required documents,” she said, adding that all important processes can be done at the mining commission and prospective investors can be linked to other institutions in case in need for more information. She further said the gov- ernment has removed annoying taxes, arguing that the government has created conducive investment envi- ronment and taken measures to curb mineral smuggling by setting up mineral trading hubs. She said the commission was working on an aware- ness creation programme, targeting the population in the mining areas to complement the government efforts to curb mineral smuggling. Ms Wella said besides setting up the mineral trading centres, public awareness on issues related to mineral business was also critical in curbing smuggling. “We have been educating the public on various issues related to minerals business and we are currently prepar- ing awareness programme to reach the population in the mineral producing areas,” she said. Recently, Government Spokesman Dr Hassan Abbasi said government instituted reforms in the mining sector have yielded positive results. He said the mineral trading centres have helped to control quality, value and data, saying as of May 29, 2019, there were 24 markets established in different regions and earning the gov- ernment money that was previously lost. Dr Abbasi cited Geita gold trading centre, which became operational on March 17, this year, noting that gold production recorded for a two year period before its establishment was 259.12 kilogrammes but production increased to 312.65 kilogrammes in two months after the market establishment. He said in April alone, gold production reached 200 kilogrammes, which had never been produced in Geita region by medium and small scale miners. He said revenue collections for 11 months of last fiscal year exceeded the amount collected during the same period in the previous year. Dr Abbas said in 2015/16, the government earned 210.18b/-, in 2016/17 the revenues increased to 214.50bn/- and 301.6bn/- was accrued in the 2017/18 fiscal year.