VODACOM Tanzania Foun- dation has signed a grant agreement with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), to provide 303m/- that will support a tree planting campaign in Dodoma City championed by the Vice President’s Office and supported by WWF. Speaking at the signing ceremony in Dar es Salaam yesterday an Environmental Officer from the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment), Dr Thomas Bwana applauded Vodacom Tanzania Foundation and WWF for their initiative to address climate change in Tanzania noting it was pleasant to see corporates and NGO’s partnering to work towards achieving SDG 13 on climate Action. “With 80 per cent of the population relying on environ- mental and natural resources for income generation, the protection of natural resources becomes a critical success factor in our nation’s planned economic development,” said Dr Bwana who represented Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ambassador Joseph Sokoine. “The government has put in place concerted efforts to address the effects of climate change in Tanzania and en- sure that communities adapt to climate change thus we applaud this partnership and encourage more” Dr Bwana added that the government plans to plant 280 million trees every year to support the national tree planting and management initiatives of making the country green. Vodacom Tanzania Foun- dation Director, Rosalynn Mworia said they were excited about the new project which is a result of the Foundation’s new strategic plan 2019/ 21. Advocating for the pro- motion of climate action for a sustainable environment is one of the foundations pillars in the new strategy,” she said. “As a purpose led organization our vision is to connect for better meaning through our work, we hope to create a digital society, focusing on social inclusion and working for the planet by halving our environmental impact. This project aims to green Dodoma but also we hope for increased number of climate action/cli- mate smart activities as a result of awareness and social mobilization ,” said Mworia. WWF Tanzania Country Director, Dr Amani Ngusaru said the fund will be directed towards supporting the government’s efforts toward “Greening Dodoma project” that expects to plant 100,000 trees in the first year and create one garden in the country’s capital city as well as increase awareness and social mobilisation for ecofriendly programmes through training women and youth groups on the production and use of alternative to plastic bag carriers and waste management as economic empowerment activities. “We are committed to developing meaningful and sustainable projects address- ing environmental and social challenges in Tanzania. We thank Vodacom Tanzania Foundation for extending a helping hand in achieving our initiatives. The effects of climate change are visible across the country, hence restoration of ecosystems and natural resources protection is critical in the mitigation of the devastating impacts on livelihoods and effective ex- ecution of this project will be a major milestone in tackling these challenges,” added Dr. Ngusaru. The project dubbed “living in harmony with nature” kicks off in September, 2019 in Dodoma and will be implemented in collaboration with the Vice president’s Office (environment), the Dodoma City Council and Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS).