Truck drivers face a difficult task on the country’s major roads as they are exposed to various challenges such as insecurity, fatigue, breakdowns and unfriendly road infrastructure. This story tackles all these and the reporter went into the trenches to find out how these truck drives survive. And, this is the second part of a two part story highlighting truck drivers’ plight and solutions to road crashes by these trucks. Fatigue — a silent killer One of the major findings from the trip by the ‘Daily News’ is that most truck drivers suffer from fatigue due to driving for long hours and failing to get enough rest. While on the way, the driver of the truck this reporter had boarded, at one time failed to control his vehicle as he dosed off. And, he escaped causing a crash by a whisker and ended up hitting rearview mirrors of other vehicles coming from the opposite direction. Having driven for a long time, the driver was swerving from one side of the road to the other. This occurred several times between Shelui in Tabora District and Igunga on the way to Nzega. Being early in the morning, after a nonstop drive from Dar es Salaam, the experience was like a scene from a movie, when the truck started to slowly shift to the right lane in front of an oncoming vehicle. “Hey hey where to?” this reporter shouted, waking up the driver, who managed to safely redirect the truck to the correct lane. The incident repeated itself again and this time the truck hit the side mirror of another truck coming from the opposite direction. Having been quizzed on how they continue with the journey under such circumstances, he said that in most cases they use experience to help them stay alive. “We are normally alerted by drivers of vehicles coming from the opposite direction who blow their horns and we redirect the vehicle. B ut, some people are not lucky hence they end up crashing or causing head-on collisions,” he said. He went on to comment that fatigue was most likely the cause of all the crashes we had witnessed along the highway, especially in Coast and Morogoro regions, where some trucks had overturned after swerving off the road. “Sleeplessness is dangerous as it leads to fatigue. When the brain is tired, one can actually fall asleep with his eyes open. He will be awake but the mind would have shut down, so under such circumstances when the truck swerves to the wrong lane and the driver is alerted, he is most likely to direct the steering wheel where his mind thinks should be the correct direction,” he said, adding, this may end up in crashes that claim lives, causing casualties and damage property. According to the Road Safety Tool Kit, a person kept awake for 17 hours will perform as poorly as someone with a blood-alcohol concentration (B AC) of 0.05 per cent (the legal limit in many countries) on tests of thinking ability and hand-eye coordination. And, after 24 hours without sleep, a person will perform as poorly as someone with a B AC of 0.10 per cent. Reached for comment, the Regional Police Commander (RPC) for Kagera Region, Revocatus Malimi, said it was difficult for the police to test and control fatigue in drivers, although they are working hard to minimize road crashes. “Kagera has road networks considered as part of the East African Corridor due to geographical positioning. We monitor up to 600 trucks crossing this region to Rusumo and Kabanga borders on a daily basis and the other 400 to Mutukula border on their way to Uganda. B ut, it is quite very challenging on how we can control sleeplessness and fatigue among drivers,” he added. Research on the proportion of crashes that are as a result of fatigue has had mixed results, but often it is reported that around 20 per cent of fatal crashes are fatigue related and that this percentage is higher for crashes involving commercial vehicles. But, ASP Sokoni explained that the Road Traffic Act makes it clear that the driver must be physically and mentally fit before getting behind the wheel.It was therefore the driver’s duty to have a rest of not less than four hours whenever they get tired. Breakdowns – lurking death traps One of the major nightmares drivers come across in their line of duty is a breakdown. Though some drivers act as mechanics when the going gets tough, while some travel with mechanics, or with some companies strategically placing mechanics to swiftly react to breakdowns, they remain a thorn in the flesh for drivers. The journey by this reporter revealed that breakdowns normally occur along blind corners, steep slopes and dangerous areas where visibility is close to zero. Trucks that develop mechanical fault are hardily towed to safer places and as a result cause fatal crashes. Several crashes have been recorded across the country and in November last year, a faulty truck caused a crash involving two government vehicles, killing seven people at Sejeli in Kongwa District of Dodoma Region. A similar incident took place in Ikungi District of Singida Region recently, killing a couple driving their private car and the list goes on. RPC Malimi said the issue of trucks breaking down along highways is a common sight in his region and they contribute to crashes. He added that the law grants 24 hours for the vehicle to be repaired right there and if that time elapses, the Road Act is clear that 200 thousands shillings fine is imposed for excessive hours, until the driver in collaboration with the truck owner removes it by the roadside. But, Musa Simba, a long distance truck driver highlights that some breakdowns are hard to get the vehicle timely removed by towing it, due to various reasons such as geographical location and time, something he said poses a danger of causing crashes. He said some crashes happen due to breakdowns occurring at night, where the drivers fail to put warning signs for the coming vehicles in fear of the possible presence of dangerous wild animals around the area. Sometimes it will be raining or cold or nearby trees will be thorns, so it becomes difficult to cut them and place on the road as warning signs. Commenting as to why they use tree branches, Simba said that they are easily noticeable by other drivers and are placed starting from a long distance from where the vehicle will be, while placing a triangle that far will result in it being stolen without them noticing, or if it is flipped by the wind, then it is as good as if there is no sign at all. Responding to the matter, ASP Sokoni highlights that laying of tree branches as a signal is against the law. He says that the act is translated to environmental degradation. He says all what is directed by the traffic law is placing or using a reflective triangle as a sign of a breakdown ahead. The traffic police principal legal chief says that failure to use a reflective triangle is punishable by law and the perpetrator will fork out 30 thousand shillings as spot fine imposed by police officers or up to 300 thousands shillings when the case is presented before a court of law. The very same punishments may be effected to those found drunk while driving the motor machines. Case studies of practices from developed countries that are worth adapting include mandatory insurance schemes which will cover immediate removal of faulted vehicles on the road. Phostine Oyuke, a spokesperson for the Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) says that there were no legal mechanisms compelling vehicle owners to insure for fault removal. The case is the same to insurance companies according to him. B ut, this seems to be one of the ways of avoiding imminent dangers due to wrongly parked trucks and other vehicles. Family trauma Journeys by long distance truck drivers are traumatic to their families. With all the dangers lurking, families sigh with relief upon safe returning of their loved ones. Lilian Emmanuel, who is married to a long distance truck driver could not hide her emotions towards her husband’s job. She is gripped by fear which is aggravated not only by loneliness every time he embarks on a journey and is worsened by the fact that she stays longer periods without communicating to her loving husband. “Sometimes a week passes by without talking to him as he will be unreachable on his phone. I am getting used to it now by keeping myself busy with income generating activities, so that I don’t get even more bored,” she said, adding that her husband sometimes takes up to a month without making it back home, which makes her bear a heavy burden of supporting the family alone. She was, however, quick to point that she is also jealous, because she does not know what her husband will be doing when he is away from home, hence she will not be sure whether what is delaying the husband is work related or other issues. Long awaited contracts Commenting on insufficient remuneration of transit drivers, the Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister Office, Labour, Youths and employment, Antony Mavunde, said that beginning this July, the government will come out with strategies of making sure that drivers get working contracts as per the laws of the land. Good contracts and payments can be part of the solution for the drivers as cited by Amon Malanga, who drives trucks belonging to B akhresa Group of Companies that goes to the border posts. Malanga said that he gets time to rest and his company pays health insurance for him and his family. So, when travelling he will be at easy knowing that all is good at home. He can easily repair his vehicle in case of minor mechanical faults. Last week, officials from the Ministry of Labour, in collaboration with members of truck drivers’ association, embarked on an operation to inspect drivers along the Dar es Salaam –Morogoro highway, checking if they have valid working contracts. The operation is being conducted at checkpoints and bus terminals and is aimed at, among other things, to establish if drivers had official leave, if they are paid a salary in a timely manner, per diems for the domestic as well as foreign routes.