A RECENT string of protests and violent incidents, which occurred in Hong Kong, was largely influenced by outsiders after the government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) tried to discuss the amendments to the Fugitive Offenders Ordinance and Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Ordinance. Since the HKSAR government has no jurisdiction to extradite criminal suspects and fugitive individuals, the HKSAR government decided to amend the two ordinances. The decisions of HKSAR to amend the Fugitive Offenders Ordinance and Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Ordinance was taken after one of Hong Kong residents, Chan Tong-kai, was suspected of killing his pregnant girlfriend in Taiwan and fleeing back to Hong Kong. The purpose of amending this ordinance was mainly aimed at allowing the local government to cooperate with the mainland, Macao and Taiwan, on extraditing criminal suspects and fugitives in individual cases through a special arrangement. The amendment would have helped in handling such kind of the aforementioned case and would have also closed an existing legal loophole to jointly combat crime and uphold law and justice. Intentionally and for the purpose of wanting to spread hatred among Hong Kong residents and prevent the ordinance from passing, one foreign country used this crisis to gain political leverage and approval from few Hong Kong people and provoked violence under the pretext of defending democracy and freedom of expression. Throughout the crisis, the western media has been in the forefront by spreading hate and false information to persuade people to march and cause violence. The entire world has witnessed gross hypocrisy and lies propagated by some western nations that pretend to be true advocates of the rights and democracy of Hong Kong residents. Due to western interference, some ill-intentioned individuals and media outlets took this opportunity to spread exaggerated or false views, thus causing panic among members of the public and obstructing the deliberation of the amendments in the HKSAR Legislative Council. T he violence was caused by some few Hong Kong residents, who have insufficient knowledge about the mainland’s situation and its legal and judicial systems. As to peaceful protests against the proposed extradition law amendments, the HKSAR police granted approval and provided protection in accordance with the law. However, intentional violent activities by some radical protesters supported by foreign countries went far beyond the proper scope of peaceful demonstrations. They surrounded the Legislative Council building, blocked roads and halted traffic. They hurled bricks, metal rods and petrol bombs at the police and even charged police cordon lines. They also blocked the Hong Kong Police Headquarters twice and disturbed the operations of Hong Kong’s Inland Revenue Department and Immigration Department. All this was supported and directed from outside with the intention of disrupting the HKSAR government’s decision on amending the ordinances. It should be noted that, since Hong Kong’s return to the motherland, the implementation of the principle of “one country, two systems” has achieved widely recognised success. The principles of “one country, two systems,” “Hong Kong people administration” and a high degree of autonomy in HKSAR have been fully implemented. Hong Kong also continues ranking high in the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index (WJPRLI). It should also be noted that, some foreign countries are not happy with the high standard that has been achieved by maintaining and implementing the principle of one country, two systems and that’s why some of these countries have supported demonstrations that turned into violence. Despite the principle of one country two systems, outside countries have no any right to interfere with Hong Kong affairs and should respect the territorial integrity of China. The tendency of western nations to interfere in other country’s internal affairs must be reprimanded and rebuked. Thus, all Chinese people, especially Hong Kong residents, must oppose and resist violence which might undermine Hong Kong’s prosperity and stability. They should also not allow to be influenced by outsiders, whose goal is to disrupt peace and instil hatred in the people of Hong Kong. • The author is an independent writer based in Dar es Salaam.