CRDB Bank and Arusha’s Hans-Paul Automechs L imited (HAL ) have announced a joint initiative to enable tour operators to lend a safari car at a 10 per cent interest rate. The two yesterday introduced a special industry oriented credits ‘Safari Car’ loans without collateral. CRDB Bank Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Dr Joseph Witts said the credit line came after the bank realising that the safari vehicle are beyond reach for many local tour operators since it costs 100,000 U S dollars (230m/-). “They are very expensive and therefore most local investors opt to buy used vehicles, but through the Safari Car loans majority of them can now afford a new vehicles from HAL ,” said Mr Witts. According to the CCO, the loans will be given without any collateral only that CRDB will hold the motor vehicle card until the money is repaid at 10 per cent interest. Mr Witts said women investors in tourism will be given a lower interest rate to 9.0 per cent in a bid to entice them to join tourism sector. “A firm can even procure 100 vehicles through our loan facility package— it is unlimited,” said the CRDB CCO. HAL Group Managing Director, Satbir Hanspaul, said there is importance to ensure that safari vehicles are not only capable but must feature all creature comforts. “Comfort is important because tourists spend most of their visiting days on roads sitting in vehicles,” he said, adding that, tiresome journeys may discourage tourists from returning. Mr Hanspaul explained that in case beneficiaries fail to repay loans, his company was ready to re-purchase back the loaned vehicles through the ‘buy back guarantee,’ arrangement, thus operators need not to fear to get the car credits. During the ‘ Safari Car’ loans launch, five tour companies were handed their newly loaned vehicles, among them the Natural Responsible Safari, B arefoot Safari, Kenzan Wildlife Safaris, Top Climbers Expeditions and Samless Adventures. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Permanent Secretary, Prof Adolf Mkenda, who graced the occasion, said once the tourism sector improves with better services, it will be easy to promote the industry because already the good facilities themselves will serve to endorse the local industry. The Tanzania Tourist B oard (TTB ), Chairperson, Judge Thomas Mihayo, used the occasion to warn operators to ensure that each of them is fully registered, have permanent office and address in order to nurture trust among clients. HAL manufactures elongated and specially fitted ‘safari’ bodies onto the chassis of Toyota L and Cruisers (series 7 0), Nissan Patrols and L and Rovers. These types of transport equipment are costly in own accord but gets more expensive after undergoing ‘ safari body’ conversions.