TOMORROW we are hosting a summit meeting of member countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), which comprises 16 member states. At any level, this is a huge gathering comprising over a thousand delegates, including respective heads of state and government. Launched in 1979 going by the name of ‘Southern African Development Coordination Conference’ (SADCC), under the initiative of Tanzanian Founder President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, this summit meeting will register as the 39th conference of leaders of Southern Africa. It will be the second meeting to be hosted since 2003 when Tanzanian 3rd President, Benjamin Mkapa had assumed leadership of SADC. For us in Tanzania, it is a great honour to host this summit meeting, but also subtly a tribute to this country’s pioneering role in the battle for liberation against the minority rule in Southern Africa. Equally important is the initiative of Tanzanian founder President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who in his lifetime, had dedicated his life for African unity as could be seen with the launch of the sister organisation of SADC, the East African Community (EAC), alongside his equally passed away colleagues, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya and Milton Obote of Uganda. As we proudly recall, Mwalimu Nyerere spent the last days of his life, even after retiring from office as President of this country, devoted in a crusade to bring the people of developing countries together in what was described as “South-South” cooperation. We saw Mwalimu touring a number of developing countries from Africa to Latin America urging for socioeconomic cooperation. One of his initiatives was the launch of SADC whose proceeding name we have seen earlier in this perspective. Mwalimu’s concern was emphatically against a situation where the most powerful states in Western Europe and the United States always enjoy advantages against developing countries whose goods’ prices they set and determine! So Mwalimu, all along, spoke on the need for South-South cooperation– on the need for economic cooperation between each other in the developing world. Politically, he spoke about this urge- arguing that unity among developing countries was a good weapon-quipping in his characteristic humour: “If one of these big guys (western leaders) was to be confronted by a herd of chickens-all surging towards him on his path-he would be scared, wouldn’t he?” Along the way, in his lifetime, Mwalimu initiated EAC, which, is still there, in spite of ups and downs along the way since its inception. In his last days of his life, with the liberation of Southern African states among which were ruled by apartheid states, Mwalimu also conceived the launch of SADCC, which later graduated in SADC. If I have singled out Mwalimu Nyerere ‘s role in the formation of our regional socioeconomic institutions is because he had played a remarkable role, putting his country forward as a frontline state. Of course, he was not alone in this struggle for the liberation of Southern Africa. His fellow-Presidents, such as Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia, were his allies. Now, we are where we are today. We are together in economic institutions such as SADC whose summit meeting is taking place here. Now, what is the concrete situation on the ground in the SADC region today? What are our strides in economic cooperation? This is seemingly the agenda of the SADC summit that will be taking place in Dar es Salaam. My contribution as a citizen of a member state of SADC is to urge the leaders to think about cheaper inter-state means of transport between member states in the Southern African region. This is because, at the end of the day, progress in terms of development in the region will be determined in the event the people in this area of Southern Africa are able to interact in terms of trade and other matters. This implies the need to design cheaper means of transport between and among the people in Southern Africa. Ideas for the construction of railways and roads between member countries would be ideal for the interest of ordinary people in the region, who, of course, cannot afford air tickets. We have Tanzania-Zambia Railway (Tazara), which is very much operational and which seems to have benefitted land-locked Zambia. One would suggest to our leaders to think along these lines for the rest of the countries in the region. This will also be to the benefit of our industrialisation drive, presumably remarkable in every member state of SADC. These are, of course, just ideas from me, an ordinary citizen of Tanzania, a member country of SADC. I am sure other citizens within the huge population of 450 million people of our SADC have many more ideas! makwaia@spicenet.co.tz” makwaia@spicenet.co.tz; wakuhenga@gmail.com