NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars could have an advantage against disgruntled hosts Kenya’s Harambee Stars in tomorrow’s return leg tie of 2020 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers. The two neighbouring countries faceoff in the second leg tie at Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya after the first game ended all square at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. And, according to the ‘Daily Nation’ of Kenya, all is not good in Harambee Stars camp. For the umpteenth time, Harambee Stars preparations ahead of an international assignment have been hampered by financial challenges after the government delayed in releasing the required funds, totalling to 19 million K-shillings. Either way, the paper reported, Harambee Stars developmental side is unlikely to be in the right frame of mind during Sunday’s CHAN qualifier against Tanzania. This because Stars players were by last evening yet to receive their camping allowances from the government, leading to comparisons to a similar case where the national women football team players have been awaiting payments for the past sixteen months. Also affected by this delay in funding are a number of service providers including Utalii hotel, Kasarani Stadium management, airline agents, a local bus company and a laundry firm all of whom are demanding dues for services rendered. The Kenyan law requires all national teams competing in international assignments be funded by the government. Taifa Stars headed to Nairobi yesterday, ready for the decisive match against the hosts. Stars interim Coach Etienne Ndairagije has beefed up his squad by calling up defenders Haruna Shamte and Oscar Masai and goalkeeper Mohammed Yusuf, to replace inured trio of goalkeeper Aishi Manula, defender David Mwantika and midfielder Ibrahim Ajib. Attacking midfielder Ajib picked a knock during the first leg match, while Manula and Mwantika did not feature in the match due to injuries picked during training session. Ndayiragije is plotting the downfall of their hosts and it will be another opportunity for Taifa Stars to revive hopes of sailing into the next stage of the competition knowing that any draw involving goals will be enough for them to reach the next round. Ndayiragije reiterated that his side has big advantage to win, saying that holding Harambee Stars to a goalless draw at home (Dar es Salaam) is a big advantage for his team ahead of the return battle. “The fact that we never conceded a goal has a big value to us because during the next match, it will be them playing with pressure not to allow a goal from us meaning that they will approach the game defensively while for us, we will open up to at least score a crucial away goal,” he said. He added that the overall performance from his lads during the past match was convincing despite the fact that the squad trained for a short period and that some players were making their debut in the national team colours. “We were pleased to see fighting spirit from the players and they really showed that they have that hunger to lift high their team and we expect to see another great football display from them in Kenya,” he said. Defender Erasto Nyoni said Taifa Stars must act like “soldiers defending the honour of the country. “Tanzanians love the national football team and this must motivate us to do even better than in the first leg,” he said. Reports from Kenya had it that the football federation have decided to slash ticket prices up to 80 per cent in the hope that a huge crowd will turn up and cheer Harambee Stars to victory over Taifa Stars in this weekend CHAN qualifier. “We dropped the ticket price in the belief that supporters will come in large numbers and back the national team,” unveiled the Kenyan football chief Nick Mwenda.