ENERGY Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani, has ordered Kigamboni District government officials to ensure all victims who will be affected by power distribution in the area are compensated within 14 days from Friday. The government, through Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), is working on the installation of 132/33 KV power line which transmits power from Kurasini to Dege Beach area. “I commend our president who made the entire sum of 1.9bn/-available to compensate people who have paved way for the project. Please (manager of the project), make sure that every citizen who has fallen victim receive their compensation in 14 to 20 days, because the money is there,” stated Dr Kalemani. The directive was given recently during the launch of the third phase Rural Energy Agency (REA), Peri-Urban project at the Kibamande grounds in Mwasonga ward, Kigamboni District, which is set to supply electricity to the remaining 36 streets that did not have electricity at a cost of 9.34/-billion. Dr Kalemani issued further directives to Derm Electric and Tanesco managers who will be overseeing the Peri-Urban project, saying that they are supposed to complete the project in the agreed nine months, because the government has no plans of extending the deadline. “If the project is delayed, then you will face one of two consequences, one is to cut ten percent of what the contractor is paid according to the contract, and two is to take legal action, including taking you to court,” he warned. He ordered that all the casual workers hired for the project should be solicited from Kigamboni District. “If any problem happens due to improper installation, then the work will be repeated, at your own costs.” Dr Kalemani also requested local government officials to be ready to help the contractors in pinpointing important areas set aside for schools and hospitals so that they should have electricity infrastructure which is on standby and ready for connection. He further warned citizens against falling prey to fraudulent people who will ask them to pay for electric poles, wires, or transformers. “Citizens should be concerned about paying 27,000/- for connection, but how electricity will be brought to your place is upon the contractors,” he noted. Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile who is also the Kigamboni Member of Parliament (MP), commended REA for their efforts as currently 7,000 out of 12,000 villages across the country have electricity within three years. “Make proper preparations, make sure your houses are wired by professionals and prepare 27,000/-for connection fees, because this is the only cost you have to pay for the electricity,” he told residents. Meanwhile, Tanesco zonal (Coastal, Dar es Salaam), Manager, Engineer Hassan Said that for those who cannot do electric wiring at the time can also have electricity by buying an equipment called ‘umeta’. “The equipment costs 36,000/- and can supply electricity in one house with three to four rooms,” he said. REA Deputy Director, Engineer Johns Olotu insisted to the community that all payments for the electricity installation should be done with Tanesco, warning people against conmen. The Kigamboni District Commissioner (DC), Ms Sarah Msafiri said that she was glad that in her district there are two big events taking place on the same day, one being the launching of the Peri-Urban project and the second is compensating people who paved way for Dege electric project.