AFRICA should take advantage of its living independence heroes to create a better tomorrow for its younger generation. This was said yesterday by Ms Phoebe Asiyo, one of the most respected and influential women leaders in Kenya, who is also a former Member of Parliament. Ms Asiyo said that they decided to come all the way to Tanzania to honor Mama Maria Nyerere, the wife of the founding father, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, because of her contribution in the shaping of African affairs. She said that mama Nyerere has done a lot for the East African women, which she said was spurred by the first meeting that was organised by Mwalimu in 1962, which brought together women from across the east African region. “Africa still has women who struggled for independence, including mama Maria, and I believe that if Africa utilized these people, it will continue to shape the face of Africa for the sake of our current and the future generation,” she said. This was during an event organized by the first President of Pan Africa Parliament, Mama Gertrude Mongella, which included a visit by women who participated in the struggle for independence from Kenya and Tanzania in Msasani at the home of Mama Maria. The visitors also included representatives of Pan African Women Organization (PAWO), a women’s organization that was founded in 1962 in Tanzania with mama Maria being among the founding members, and representatives of Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organization (MYWO), from Kenya. Receiving the Kenyan delegation which was accompanied by the Kenyan Ambassador to Tanzania, Dan Kazungu, mama Maria said that women in the East African Community should make visiting each other a habit so that they can forge stronger ties. The Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organisation National Chairman, Rahab Mwikali Muiu said with poverty still posing a major challenge to East African countries, women from both sides should work hard to ensure they extract themselves from the vice. he said to tackle this, most women engage themselves in cross border trade between the two countries, and therefore the two governments should put in place a conducive environment for the women to trade freely. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu said that Tanzania should emulate Kenya and create a platform which is dedicated to women across the country, irrespective of their political affiliations. She said that by doing this it will be a platform which they will use to highlight challenges faced by women in the country and come up with solutions. She said that influential women Tanzania should make a habit of sitting with older women who were involved in the independence struggle every year so that they can benefit from their wisdom.