VODACOM Tanzania has inked a three-year sponsorship deal worth 9bn/- with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) as fundamental towards enhancing football development in the country. This was confirmed by the firm’s Managing Director (MD) Hisham Hendi on Friday at the company’s headquarters in Dar es Salaam after finalising the sponsorship agreement with TFF and he reiterated that his company will do everything possible to uplift lives of youths through sports. The mobile company has once again stretched its arm to steer the country’s top flight league as the title and main sponsor for the upcoming three years after taking a one year break. According to the new deal, Vodacom Tanzania will be dishing out 3bn/- each year for three years meant for smooth running of the entire Vodacom Premier League (VPL). “As you know, we are not new comers as far as sponsoring the league is concerned. This happens to be our ninth year at the helm of the country’s top flight league and we expect nothing but success,” Hendi said. He added that since development of football is nurtured from the grassroots level, they will continue to assist various initiatives aimed at promoting the growth of the sector from the foundation stage. Also, the MD noted that the participation of the national team, Taifa Stars in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) whose finals were held in Egypt clearly indicated that football is growing at a fast pace in the country. Moreover, Hendi disclosed that his company did not stop sponsoring the league only that talks between them and TFF were protracted hence making the past season unfold without their involvement. On his part, TFF President Wallace Karia hailed Vodacom Tanzania for their agreement to be title and main sponsors of the league insisting that they will fully respect terms and conditions of the deal. “After an extended period of talks, we are happy now that the contract has successfully been signed and this will help to minimize some problems which emerged last season when we ran the league without main sponsors,” he said. Asked what the federation will do to teams which will decline to embrace the Vodacom (red) logo on their playing shirts as what happened at some point in the past, Karia replied that any team which will not respect sponsor’s logo due to its colour will be distancing itself from the available TFF family.