FINANCIAL professionals were yesterday challenged to focus on the power of connections and partnership for their business and career development. Connections, according to Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), get one to places and move the world forward as well as create wider opportunities. The ACCA Vice Chair-Members Network panel, Mr Donald Nsanyiwa said during their annual members’ conference in Dar es Salaam that through the power of connections one can learn and grow through access to an international network of support and resources. “The power of connections is a bond, a link, a tie that enables finance professionals and the clients we work with as well as organizations we work for to thrive and move up to the next level, without them it is worth to think about where you would be,” he noted. ACCA Tanzania has made enormous strides in strengthening the profession across the country, like recently signed a partnership agreement with KPMG to collaborate in growing the Public Finance Management (PFM) in Tanzania. Head of ACCA Tanzania, Mr Jenard Lazaro said in their secondquarter theme this year focuses on the power of connections to enable the profession, business and the economy forward. “The level of power among your connections is dependent upon, both how you utilize the connections for mutual benefit and how you maintain and grow the connections,” he said. Expounding further he said the recent college graduate has connections among family members, fellow graduates, professors and others encountered during their college experience. Mr Lazaro said as in the first quarter the focus was on the power of digital by the end of 2021 the whole ACCA qualification will be examined using computers as a way to adapt to meet the changing needs of business and employers. He said the future is digital hence they need to embrace it, technology continues to disrupt the way to conduct business and profession isn’t spared at all. The ACCA boss said strategic professional, the final level of the association qualification integrates deep, broad and relevant technical expertise with ethics and professional skills, ensuring their students are prepared to handle the challenges they will face in the workplace. ACCA is the global body for professional accountants. That support 200,000 members and 486,000 students in 180 countries, helping them to develop successful careers in accounting and business, with the skills required by employers. ACCA works through a network of 101 offices and centres and more than 7,291 approved employers worldwide, who provide high standards of employee learning and development.