GOLFER Hawa Wanyeche from the Tanzania Peoples’ Defence Forces (TPDF) golf Club of Dar es Salaam won her second title after emerging victorious in the third series of the Kenyan Coast Ladies Golf Open in Mombasa, Kenya. The third series Mombasa Cup battle that was held at the Mombasa Golf Club course on Thursday saw handicap-5 Wanyeche overpowering other competitors to win the title. She recovered from her second series seatback after she carded 78 gross to win overall gross title at the 18 holes stroke play event, beating over 100 golfers from Uganda, hosts Kenya and fellow Tanzanians. Wanyeche told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Mombasa yesterday that she is happy to return back to winning ways after struggling on Wednesday. “I’m delighted to win the second title here… it was not that easy and competition is really stiff with lots of challenges, but I was prepared for it and thank God for this achievement,” she said. Wanyeche also sparkled to emerge winner of the first series at Leisure Lodge also in Mombasa last Tuesday. She carded 77 gross to win overall title. Her club mate Angel Eaton handicap-3 had impressed in the second series after recovering from her first round dismal performance but regained her composure and carded aggregate 148 (72,76) gross to finish overall second in a tense 36-hole day battle at Nyali Golf and Country Club course Wednesday. Eaton finished two shots adrift winner, Kenyan Mercy Nyanchama handicap-5, who captured 146 strokes but could not repeat her good form at Mombasa course. The Mombasa club contest was too tough to other Tanzania players including Arusha’s Gymkhana Club (AGC) and 2018 Uganda Ladies Open Champion Neema Olomi, who her name never missed in the two first series. Lugalo ladies captain Ayne Magombe, Chiku Elias, Vicky Elias, Lina Francis and Lina Nkya also struggled let host occupy other remaining winning position. The event’s action shifted to Vipingo yesterday for another 18-hole medal battle before the Ladies Coast Open winds up with the Greensomes at Vipingo today.