THE Ministry of Education, Science and Technology is revisiting truancy cited reasons in a guideline in order to discourage cases of students dropping out of school prematurely. The announcement was issued here yesterday by the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako while meeting the World Bank Executive Director for Africa Group, Ms Anne Kabagambe, at Kibasila Secondary School on her tour. Prof Ndalichako said the move to revisit the truancy guidelines was necessitated by the fact they cite loopholes, which make students to skip school and become unpunished. “One of the clauses in the regulations says that a student will be regarded as truant is he/she misses school for 90-consecutive days, thus the absentee and some parents have been exploiting the clause smartly,” said Prof Ndalichako. She further said: “What most truants are doing is to skip school for 45-days and, thereafter report for a day and then go missing again, because he/she knows that the authority will start counting afresh… something need to be done to control this.” The Minister said that the move will set tight measures to ensure that all students attend class as required to improve their education quality. The Minister equally expressed the government’s commitment to have in place a conducive learning and teaching environment for all students countrywide. Prof Ndalichako said that in the Education Programme for Results (EP4R) in which the World Bank was a partner among others, they have dedicated 202,000 US dollars to address a number of areas including improving education infrastructure. During the event, Ms Kabagambe announced that World Bank has commitment to inject 1-billion US dollar to the education sector’s development before October. “Between September and October, we will approve one-billion US dollar to the education sector in Tanzania, which will cover three areas” said the World Bank Executive Director for Africa. She outlined the areas as secondary education, higher education and vocational training. However, she commended the government for prioritising the education sector, saying the country tops in Africa in their rating to meet the budget requirements. Ms Kabagambe said education is basic foundation for the country’s national development, thus investing in it is a government responsibility. Last year Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa revealed that absenteeism and dropout numbers were frighteningly high in seven regions in Tanzania. He mentioned the areas as Tabora, Geita, Shinyanga, Mtwara, Simiyu, Singida and Rukwa.