THE government of Austria through the Sister Cities Salzburg-Singida (SCSS) as an organisation based in Salzburg Austria, is supporting efforts by President, Dr John Magufuli to improve education and health sector services in the country, where a total of 135m /- has so far been spent. In partnership with a local non-governmental organization Community Initiatives Promotion (CIP), in Singida, the SCSS is funding a variety of projects,which include repairing two classrooms and a teacher’s office at Ikanoda Primary School located in Singida District Council. Commenting, the CIP’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Afesso Ogenga, while handing over the classes and the office noted that since the organizations started operations in Tanzania in 1980s, several projects have so far been implemented and significantly helped to develop the region. He said that in the 2018/19 financial year, SCSS provided approximately 135m/-to support development projects in Mwasauya and Ikhanoda Wards within the District Council. “The money has been used to implement projects in the education sector, especially the construction of two classrooms and one teacher’s office at Ikhanoda Primary School, as well as training Mathematics and English teachers from the Ikanoda and Mwasauya Wards,” said Mr Ogenga. He added that in the sector, the organization focused on reducing maternal and child mortality of under five years by offering refresher training to the public on maternal and new born health especially to nurses and midwives as well as people with Diploma or Degree scholarship to build their capacity. The organisation has also trained Community Health workers and educated the public, besides supporting them to establish a kitchen garden with the aim of enhancing nutrition for children. He said that the organization has also been providing medical equipment in four Dispensaries of Ikanoda, Kisisi, Mdilu and Ngamu in the Ikhanoda and Mwasauya Wards mostly focusing on helping women to raise their income. Further explaining, Mr Ogenga noted that about 60 mothers have been trained and given various equipment including fence wires, chicken feeding bowls, and immunization services to their poultry among others. On his side, the Ikanoda Primary School Village Chairman, Jumanne Idabu, said the organization also renovated their classrooms’ floors, and painted walls among others. Presiding over as guest of honour, Mr Omari Kachebele, thanked the organization and the SCSS for the sponsors.