OCCUPATIONAL Safety and Health Authority (Osha), has recorded a five-time workplace registration increase in a single year after scrapping some of its charges. The authority said in a public notice yesterday that a total workplace registration increased to 16,457 in the 2018/19 up from 3,354 registered in 2017/18 when the fees were in force. Last November the authority amended the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 2003, and removed a number of charges to simplify doing business. Osha said yesterday through a public notice that in 2018/19 a total of 16,457 workplaces were registered compared to 3,354 registered in 2017/18 when the annulled fees were on course. “The results of annulling the fees are remarkable as the Agency has witnessed a significant increase in the number of registered workplaces,” Osha said through the notice. The increase was equivalent to 491 per cent in the enforcement of OHS Act No. 5 of 2003. “This increase translates into Osha having reached out more work places and the number of inspections has risen and eventually safety and health status of most workplaces is steadily improving in the country,” Osha said. The amendments in Act, 2003 and its regulations particularly on fees saw the removal of workplace registration fee of between 50,000/- and 1.8m/-, workplace registration form fee of 2,000/-and fine relating to firefighting equipment of 500,000/-which was seen to interfere with procedures overseen by the Fire and Rescue Force. Others were the Act compliance license fee at 200,000/-per annum; and Occupational Safety and Health consultation fee of 450,000/- per hour for one expert. The agency made various improvements in a bid to improve service delivery to the public through the implementation of the resolutions mentioned in the business environmental improvement blueprint, which outlined the challenges that need to be addressed by its various institutions. Some of the key issues highlighted in the blueprint include cutting down the costs of operating business and investments by reducing or scrapping some levies and fees as well as eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic steps in service provision including harmonizing responsibilities that overlap among various government institutions. On elimination of unnecessary bureaucracies, the Osha has cut down registration of workplace and issuance of certificate to a single day from fourteen days while compliance license is currently processed within three days from the previous 28 days. Osha managed to raise awareness on safety and health issues among stakeholders especially in the informal sector. A total of 28,275 small-scale entrepreneurs had benefited from training programmes in Tabora, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Dodoma, Arusha, Mbeya, Mwanza, Iringa, Shinyanga, Pwani, Songwe, Singida, Kilimanjaro, Rukwa and Dar es Salaam.