FRESH from their CAF Champions League victory over Township R ollers of Botswana, Young Africans start the Mainland Premier League season today, hosting R uvu Shooting at the Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam. Yanga, who last season finished runners up, are likely to use all lethal weapons they used in Botswana to punish Ruvu Shooting today. Still, Ruvu Shooting who narrowly escaped relegation last season, don’t seem to be push-overs either, and this makes the match highly unpredictable. Also to open their league season this week, are defending champions Simba, who face JKT Tanzania at the same venue tomorrow. They will be playing like a wounded bull following a heartbreaking exit from the CAF Champions league, after being forced to a 1-1 draw at home by UD Songo of Mozambique. Hence they are forced to win at any cost so as to restore lost faith of their fans and supporters. After ending their continental title race in shambles, the team’s head Coach, Patrick Aussems said their focus now is the Premier League, and tomorrow’s match against JKT Tanzania, opens that campaign. Simba were eliminated from the Champion League on an away goal rule following a 1-1 draw in the second leg in Dar es Salaam and a barren draw in the first leg tie in Beira, Mozambique. After missing the Champions League, Simba players, especially the newly signed ones will want prove to their supporters that an early exit from the tournament was just a bad luck by winning their league opener and other coming games. Among them are three Brazilian players who are yet to play in competitive game since their arrival. The Brazilian trio are Wilker Da Silva (striker) , Fraga Vieira ( defender/ midfielder) and defender Tairone Santos Da Silva. Other newly signed players include Kenyan, Francis Kahata and Sudanese Sharaf Eldin Shiboub, also reportedly set for the Premier League debut. The team’s title- defence mission will also involve Ibrahim Ajib who has made a comeback from their traditional rivals, Young Africans. Haruna Shamte and Miraji Athuman who joined Simba from Lipuli are also looking to impress Aussems squad after having a good season with the Iringa based side Lipuli, attracted the Msimbazi street giants. Last season’s top scorer Meddie Kagere is still in the squad, but he will miss the services of his lieutenant, Emanuel Okwi as his striking partner. Other Tanzanian envoys Azam FC defeated KMC 1-0 at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. KMC, who were dumped out by AS Kigali in the CAF Confederation Cup with 2-1 defeat at the National Stadium yesterday kicked off the league new season on the wrong foot. The ice-cream maker who had a lion share of the game, took the lead in the 14th minute through Idd Seleman, who tapped home Nicolas Wadada’s cross from the left flank . After the goal Azam continued to press for more goals, but KMC defence and goalkeeper Jonathan Nahimana stood firm to propel away all raids and the teams went into the break with Azam leading. In the second half Azam could have doubled their lead, but Idd Kipagwile missed a clear chance in the 69th minute. Also squandered a golden chance was Azam FC skipper Frank Domayo whose long range shot was superbly punched to an abortive corner. KMC fought strongly for an equalizer banking much on their strikers Vitalis Mayanga , and Hassan Kabunda, but none of their efforts paid off until the end of the game.