DODOMA City Council has set aside 3.3bn/- during the fiscal year 2019/20 for improving its road network, City Director Godwin Kunambi has announced. Speaking on the sidelines of the launch of two mega investment projects, a brainchild of the city council, the director announced that the city’s revenue had increased steadily and reflected improved social services and infrastructure. “During the just ended fiscal year we were able to generate over 71bn/- from our own sources. We are investing at least 54bn/- in various development projects,” he said, noting that the 3.3bn/- had already been paid to the Tanzania Rural and Urban Roads Agency (Tarura) to improve the city’s road network. According to the director, Tarura has also deposited over 10bn/- in the Treasury account, sufficient to advance payments to its two mega projects, the commercial complex and a city hotel. Mr Kunambi explained that the city was aware of a shortage of land for lease, thus it was implementing many projects that would sustain its revenue collection and remain the country’s leading city in revenue collection. Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Suleiman Jafo commended Dodoma authorities for remarkably generating revenue beyond their initial projections. The minister, who was irked by underperforming councils and cities in revenue collection, challenged councils across the country to learn from capital city initiatives. Dodoma Member of Parliament Anthony Mavunde (CCM) said the city was establishing other sources of revenue, including introducing enotourism as well as conference tourism. Enotourism, oenotourism, wine tourism or vinitourism refers to tourism, whose purpose is or includes tasting, consumption or purchasing wine often at or near its source. Wine tourism was launched in the city last week by Dodoma Regional Commissioner, Dr Binilith Mahenge, and is expected will offer a platform for wineries to meet and draw challenges and opportunities facing the economy’s sub-sector.