ABOUT 8,000 farmers and 2,303 local government agriculture experts countrywide focusing on irrigation have benefited from different training programmes organized by the National Irrigation Commission (NIRC), it was revealed here yesterday. That was said by NIRC Capacity Development and Promotion of Irrigation Schemes Project (TANCAIC II), Assistant Director, Anthony Nyarubamba at the Fifth Joint Coordinating Committee Meeting (JCC), adding that that one of the most important aspects of the project was to develop Comprehensive Guidelines (CGL) on irrigation. He said that the guidelines were disseminated to the farmers in more than 100 irrigation schemes to help them define necessary works, and adopt smooth procedures for the implementation, operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes in the country. These guidelines, he said, will also equip officers-incharge in the District councils to provide necessary advice to the famers. “After having developed the guidelines for the construction of irrigation facilities, operation and maintenance, we don’t expect any irrigation facility to be built below standard(s),” said Nyarubamba. He said that the guidelines are also put in place and aim at supporting the district to manage small-scale irrigation schemes. Users of the guidelines include the District Agriculture Development Officers, District Subject Matter Specialists, other irrigation workers, Environmentalists, farmers and communities, which are directly involved in formulation, implementation, operation and maintenance of the irrigation scheme development. The Assistant Director said that the NIRC Zonal Irrigation Engineers and Technical Services Unit staff were also the primary target of the guidelines, because they are the in-charge in the districts and directly advice and instruct grassroots’ farmers. On his side, NIRC Acting Director General, Marco Ndonde told the meeting that the development of the guidelines was part of the implementation of a four-year project by the TANCAID II and supported by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The project, among other things, is aimed at ensuring that the system in line with the guidelines is strengthened countrywide. Commenting, JICA Programme Advisor Tanzania Office, Namiko Yamada said the cooperation between them with Tanzania started more than 40 years ago, enabling the latter to benefit significantly from financial and technical support, especially on agriculture development. She said that Japan’s assistance has enabled Tanzania to implement important poverty- reduction programmes, such as the promotion of irrigation, improvement of production and productivity, besides enhancing the capacity of irrigation and agriculture technical staff. Technical cooperation includes development of Lower Moshi Irrigation Scheme, and development of National Irrigation Master Plan of 2002 that was revised in 2018. The TANCAID project also created the system for information sharing, report writing and financial management skills to the irrigation organisations.