THE fifth p hase government has been time and again encouraging students at various levels of education to study science subjects. The aim is to p roduce enough competent scientists and specialists in various sectors of the economy as we envision becoming a middle-income and industrial economy by 2025. We cannot have a middle-income and industrial economy without having enough competent local scientists and sp ecialists to lead us to the next level of social develop ment and innovations. So, it is imp ortant we p rep are ourselves in regional and global comp etence in terms of building cap acity in science and technology. One of the areas highlighted in Tanzania’s Develop ment Vision 2025 is to have a well-educated and learning society, which banks on creativity, innovativeness and a high level of quality education to resp ond to develop - ment challenges and effectively compete regionally and internationally. Yes, to cop e with and address effectively challenges caused by globalisation and technological advancement, we need to have enough competent scientists, who are cap able of finding solutions to the type of p roblems we have. This being the case, we need to focus as a nation on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), subjects. This will make us keep abreast for the fourth industrial revolution (4 IR ) . Pioneers of 4 IR suggest that this fourth era technologies combine hardware, software and biology (cyberp hysical systems) and emphasise advancement in communication and connectivity. Besides this, they suggest that 4IR is marked by breakthroughs in emerging technologies like robotics, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, q uantum computing, biotechnology, the internet of things, the industrial internet of things (IIoT), decentralised consensus, fifth-generation wireless technologies (5 G), 3D p rinting (also called additive manufacturing) and fully autonomous vehicles. This, it seems, is the direction of the modern world and even future jobs will most be created in those areas. That is why adeq uate investment in STEM subjects is ex tremely imp ortant. Speaking at the launch of the East African C ommunity C entre of Excellence for Information C ommunication and Technology in East Africa at the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST), in Arusha recently, Minister for Education, Science and Technology recently, P rof J oyce Ndalichako said building cap acity in science, technology and innovations was the only way to achieve sustainable develop ment goals (SDGs). SDG 4 p rovides for ensuring inclusive and equitable q uality education and p romoting lifelong learning opp ortunities for all. This cannot be achieved if there is no starting p oint and we in Tanzania have decided to invest in science and technology so that we can, not only contribute to betterment of our nation and country, but also to the global world to address global challenges for the time for remaining sp ectators is over. Thus, to be participants in global issues by acting locally, we have to have a certain level of ex p ertise in science and technology.