MEMBERS of Parliament (MPs), from across Africa and Asia have said inadequate space for health services is a big challenge that delays the delivery of quality health services in Tanzania. The MPs raised this concern in Dar es Salaam, when they met and held talks with MPs from the Parliament of Tanzania and those from the Zanzibar House of Representatives recently. Chairman of the Tanzania Parliamentary Association on Population and Development (TPAPD), Jamal Kassim MP said other challenges were low participation of men in the reproductive health programme and lack of awareness of contraceptives. “The main purpose of the tour was to exchange information and share experience and knowledge of reproductive maternal, newborn child and adolescents health (RMNCAH), issues,” he said. The visit was organised by Tanzania Parliamentary Association on Population and Development (TPAPD), in partnership with the Asian Population and Development Association (APDA) and Advance Family Planning (AFP), Project in Tanzania. According to him, in 1994 ICPD held in Cairo, where 179 governments of several African countries, including Tanzania, adopted a revolutionary programme of action (PoA) and called women’s reproductive health and rights to take the centre stage in national and global development efforts. Mpanda Urban Constituency MP, Sebastian Kapufi said customs and traditions had also become an obstacle to family planning in society and asked all stakeholders to work together to provide public awareness of the importance of using contraceptives. “Political and religious leaders and other stakeholders should collaborate in the provision of education and challenge all out-dated customs and traditions, which hindered the family planning programme, including the use of contraceptives,” he explained. The visit also served as a platform for parliamentarians to reflect on the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) and discuss the agenda of the upcoming ICPD to be held in November this year. The parliamentarians visited Mnazi Mmoja Municipal Hospital, Population Studies and Research Centre (PSRC), at the University of Dar es Salaam and held dialogue with partners in the city and Unguja. Special Seats MP Suzan Lyimo added that other challenges included inadequate health attendants at health centres. “We thank our government for building more health centres, but there is a need for recruiting more health workers to reduce the mortality rate of mother and child.” The MPs have adopted the Dar es Salam Declaration of Commitments for the ICPD+25, include sustaining increased investment in the youth as main actors for fertility transition, reproductive health, gender equality and empowerment of women and girls, economic and social development and environmental protection.