WITH support from Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF), Mnazi Mmoja Hospital (MMH) in Zanzibar is set to adapt e-medicine in its Information and Communication Technology (ICT) system in a bid to facilitate health service provision to the public. That was said yesterday by UCSAF acting Chief Executive Officer, Ms Justina Mashiba, pointing out that MMH, being the main referral hospital in Island would be connected with the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) through the e-medicine. “We are contemplating to connect Mnazi Mmoja Hospital with Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) through emedicine,” further said Ms Mashiba, while responding to a question by Zanzibar’s Minister for Works, Communication and Transport, Dr Sira Ubwa Mamboya. Dr Mamboya, who was on a one-day official visit to Dodoma, asked for the possibility of MMH to be connected with e-medicine following initial plans by UCSAF to link all regional hospitals with Muhimbili National Hospital through e-medicine. Briefing the Minister, Ms Mashiba, said UCSAF was putting up four ICT Centres in Pemba and six others in Unguja to facilitate ICT teaching in Zanzibar, adding that: “The fund was also offering ICT training to Secondary students and teachers in the Isles.” She further said: “The handover ceremony for all the ten ICT Centres would be held next month in September. At least 16 computer sets will also be dished out in Zanzibar.” The acting CEO said that it was the government’s plan to set up UCSAF to enable people in rural areas to have access to communication, be cause majority of them in rural areas lack access to such means. She said that at least 703 Wards in 2,263 villages in various Regions have been linked with telecommunication in the past ten years, saying that: “At least five million people in rural areas are now getting access to communication. “UCSAF facilitates telecommunication companies to extend communication services to people in rural remote areas.” In response, Dr Mamboya said her goal of visiting them was to be enlightened on USCAF operations, besides knowing that communication is the Union’s affair. “As we are preparing for House of Representatives, I deemed it is right to visit USCAF and learn of its operations and to be conversant with questions regarding USCAF in Zanzibar,” she said.