MINISTER for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani has called upon citizens in Same and Mwanga districts to take advantage of Rural Energy Agency (REA), electricity projects following government’s decision to lower connection costs. Mr Kalemani made the remarks separately on Tuesday, when addressing residents after launching electricity supply in the districts under a project implemented by the government through Rural Energy Agency (REA). During the occasions, Minister Kalemani switched on power in Kalemawe village in Kalemawe ward and at Kihurio Secondary School in Same District, doing the same at Kigonigoni village in Mwanga District. “The government has decided that every village in the country should have access to electricity; to achieve that goal, it lowered electrification charges from more than 300,000/-to 27,000/-and that is what is being done currently; therefore people in areas subject to REA services should make sure they pay to get electricity as soon as possible,” he said. The minister directed all the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco), districts managers and regional managers to start the process of moving electricity payment and other services closer to citizens by opening offices in all the wards countrywide. “The government is very well aware that there are people who live far away from urban areas where Tanesco offices are situated and that they are not able to access Tanesco services closely, so starting with Same and Mwanga districts. I direct that sub offices are opened at ward levels countrywide so that your services will be closer to the citizens. “Also from now onwards, all the district and regional managers of Tanesco in the country should start the process of visiting citizens in their areas so as to listen to challenges they face concerning your services and find ways to address them,” he said, amid applause from citizens who attended the launching. He also challenged citizens who would be the beneficiaries of REA project to consider taking advantage of the project to establish industries rather than thinking of using the REA funded projects for domestic uses alone. He also reminded Tanesco members of staff to make sure that they give priority in installing electricity to public entities that have already paid so that they access the services, whereby he said no public entity would have access to electricity without paying for power connections. Speaking on behalf of the Kalemawe people, the Acting Kalemawe Ward Executive Officer (WEO), Tusiaga Gambi, said that through the REA project, more than 5,000 residents within the ward that has three villages will benefit from the REA project. Same District Commissioner (DC), Ms Rosemary Senyamule told Minister Kalemani that of the 496 villages targeted for access to REA electricity, 302 villages had already received the services. While in Mwanga District, the minister was informed by the Mwanga District Commissioner (DC), Mr Thomas Apson that already 68 out of 72 villages in the district had already got access to power provided through the REA project.