ARUSHA City yesterday turned into a beehive of activities and enthusiasms when it hosted the first East African Community (EAC), Centre of Excellence for Information Communication and Technology in East Africa (CENIT@EA), launch. Attended by Professors, doctors, students and visitors from within and outside the country. The inauguration was presided over by the Minister of Education Science and Technology, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, where she thanked the German Government for supporting the project through its Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ). During the occasion, it was learnt that it will in turn result in enhancing research capacity in various areas of science, engineering, technology and innovation in the bloc. She said that with their assistance, her ministry will improve quality of education and training by putting in place the policies, structures and systems to educate Tanzanians. The Minister further said that the current generation will contribute significantly towards the development of the country’s goals, adding that through the mission, the government had invested about 60m US$ to craft and put up a NM-AIST infrastructure. “The State has continuously kept on supporting the institution since it started receiving Master’s and PhD degree students in 2011,” she added. CENIT@EA was supposed to start receiving students in October 2018, but due to lengthy processes, the first intake had to take place in June this year. Under the project, the first intake registered 27 students who were selected competitively from the EAC member states of Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. However, Prof Ndalichako pledged the government’s readiness to oversee the project’s implementation and ensure that its academic staff, students and administrators work hard both theoretically and practically to become innovative. Equally, she thanked the NM-AIST management for sourcing development partners, whose contribution would be vital to the government and other Sub Saharan African (SSA), countries. Expounding, she congratulated the students and called upon them to demonstrate their talents, passion and affection that would make them leave a legacy at the institution and their countries. She said that she has faith that at the end of their studies, communities, educational stakeholders and the industry will reap much from their skills and gain knowledge. “The government of Tanzania is eagerly waiting to see substantial contribution of the centre in the currently fast growing Mobile and Embedded technologies, and its applications in solving challenges in various socio-economic growth sectors including, but not limited to financial sector such as Electronic Money transactions, security systems, industries, transport and many of the kind. “The government of Tanzania believes that, building capacity in science, technology and innovations is the only key and way to achieve sustainable development and that also has its special position in feeding Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGSs),” she said. The main aim of the project is to strengthen teaching and research in the Embedded and Mobile Systems at the East African partner institutions. By cooperating closely with partners straight from the East African industry, new opportunities will crop up and offered to the graduates, as their skills are directly matched to the region’s needs.