TANZANIA still faces some challenges related to land in terms of ownership especially in rural areas, besides farmerspastoralists conflicts, tenure disputes, grabbing and alienation of peasants. That was said here yesterday by Land Expert, Charity Mugabi in a recent study, adding that: “The main victims of these land problems are women, and old people in rural areas. Even the current national land policies and approaches have not been able to resolve them.” In her case study, Amina Kirua, an old woman, who owns six acres of land within Korogwe District, Tanga Region presented a painful story of how she bought the piece of land more than 25 years ago only for the land to be ‘annexed’ the rich neighbor. Ms Kirua happened to have not been married, but had two children with different sexual partners, who all had to depend on the plot for a living. “This is a poor woman who depends on farm works, which earn her a small income to sustain herself and take care of her children Hassan Bembe (34) and Musoli Jumbe (30), who is mentally retarded. “For many years, Ms Kirua had been engaged in subsistence agriculture, which is a typical and well-known businesses to the residents, however, one day her mentally retarded son, Jumbe, experienced some health problems, which required close-monitoring and attention and that forced Ms Kirua to be away for more than two months to take care of him. After the boy’s problem was sorted out, she returned back to the farm only to find it invaded by a rich neighbor, who claimed to be the owner and that is where a battle started over the real owner of the land. “With the rich neighbor bribing local executives and system in order to ‘twist the game’ her fellow villagers advised her to file a case at Old Korogwe Land Tribunal, but still influenced by bribes, some greedy neighbors favoured the rich man in ruling. “Following the verdict, I lost the land but I did not give up, because I knew that’s was my legal property I bought it with my own money. In fact, she was the real owner of the land, but had no means to claim back her rights. “The same local executives who were taking bribe from the rich neighbor again secretly advised her to approach Old- Korogwe Paralegal, Maimuna Hosean for help and they assisted, and prepared necessary documents and lodged an appeal with Korogwe District Land and Housing Tribunal, where Ms Kirua won the case with the court declaring legal and right owner. “Since then, the greedy neighbor accepted defeat and has never disturbed Bibi (old woman), till now, as was remarked also by Korogwe Paralegal Official Yahaya Seif, who led a team of the paralegals who assisted her, she pointed out. Ms Mugabi further noted that: “Specific and special legal aid services should be extended to old-women in rural areas throughout the country, because they seem to be defenseless and can be easily driven out no matter the piece of land being matrilineal and ancestral piece and because of their poverty and illiteracy. Another activist, Ramadhan Mweli said: “This is not a new phenomenon in most of local communities in Africa, where greedy and well-off people not satisfied with what they have go to the extent of robbing the poor their ancestral pieces of land. Actions must be taken from grassroots to the national levels, to protect poor women and men from land grabbers.”