DELEGATES to the 39th SADC Summit in Dar es Salaam have been assured of receiv- ing world-class heart- related medical treatment should any need arise, the management of Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) has said. JKCI is one of the standby health institutions accredited to serve the delegates to the summit scheduled for August 17 and 18, 2019. Oth- ers are Muhimbili National Hospi- tal (MNH), Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) and The Aga khan Hospital. JKCI serves patients from across all the regions in Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar, who are referred from regional referral and designated dis- trict hospitals for tertiary level cardio- vascular medical care. JKCI also receives patients from nearby countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Comoro, Uganda, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda and Burundi. JKCI Executive Director, Prof Mohamed Janabi, told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ yesterday that JKCI had taken all necessary steps to ensure the delegates to the summit received world-class cardiac services. “Since we are going to be one of the standby hospitals in case of any emergency for the delegates and Heads of State we have kept one VIP room, which is a presidential suit ready for any emergency... Our cath lab theatre is going to be open for 24 hours. This is the theatre we use if anyone gets a heart attack,” Prof Janabi said. He assured the delegates to the summit of receiving quality services since JKCI had enough cardiac special- ists and advanced equipment for the treatment of heart re- lated conditions. Prof Janabi noted that during the last SADC meeting held in Dar es Salaam one delegate had an incident of heart attack and they man- aged to successfully treat him. “We are going to have a booth inside Nyerere Convention Centre with two doc- tors, two nurses and one in charge who will be an overall just in case anyone is sup- posed to be transported to our centre booth will also provide first aid, advice and treatment,’ he said. Prof Janabi, however, said besides providing health services, they would also dis- seminate information on their institute and activities so that SADC countries could know what they were doing. He said the information to be disseminated would be useful in the future for those countries, which didn’t have such advanced services for the treatment of heart condi- tions. JKCI Head of Public Re- lations Unit Anna Nkinda said her facility would partic- ipate in the exhibitions, which among other things, would disseminate information on JKCI and its activities. She said JKCI was well equipped with advanced equipment, adding that there was no need for seeking cardiac services outside Tanzania. Ms Nkinda said among the services offered at JKCI included the treatment of car- diovascular diseases by open heart surgery, vascular surgery and catheterisation. She explained that the facility also conducted basic investigation and advanced investigation on cardiovascular medicine, which included stress, an echocardiogram (ECHO), Holter electrocar- diogram (ECG) and ambulatory BP monitoring. “We also provide train- ing for medical, postgraduate and fellow students, nurses, cardiovascular technician... These are just some of the activities done at JKCI,” she noted. The last time Tanzania hosted the SADC meeting was 2003. After President John Magufuli assumes the chairmanship, several meetings of the economic bloc will be held in the country for one year.