THE African Development Bank’s (AfDB) current portfolio size to Tanzania has reached 2.1 billion US dollars (more than 4.8trl/-), of which 75 per cent is directed to infrastructure financing, the Bank’s President, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, has said. Dr Adesina, who was attending the just ended 39th Southern African Development Community (SADC) Summit where President John Magufuli assumed the community’s chairmanship, told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview over the weekend that the bank’s infrastructure financingter and sanitation and projects which are good for regional integration. “Tanzania has economic goods which depend very much on reliable and efficient infrastructure and for us as a bank it is an area of great interest that will spur the industrialisation drive and povertyalleviation efforts,” said Dr Adesina, adding: “Tanzania is a country that I am very passionate about because it continues to have the right leadership, peace and stability which actually encourage investments... it has very goodwhich are very attractive environments for people who want to invest.” The bank is financing a very important road project from Bagamoyo-Tanga-Horohoro- Mombasa-Malindi that straddles Tanzania and Kenya for over 250 million US dollars. The 460 km road consists of 210 km on the Tanzanian side and the rest (250 km) is in Kenya, which is expected to improve cross-border trade, tourism, socio- economic development and promote regional integration. He said the bank is financing Msalato Airport in Dodoma for more than 200 million US dollars and that the board has already approved funding for the construction of 110.2km Dodoma ring roads for more than 180 million US dollars. He noted further: “I am also delighted that Tanzanian President John Magufuli and Rwandan President Paul Kagame are committed to execute a massive railway project that will link the two countries and serve greatly the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Burundi. “I have come here twice to meet Presidents Magufuli and Kagame separately to talk on the project....it is a big project that will be implemented using a combination of resources namely sovereign loans and the Public Private Partnership (PPPP). The bank is also financing regional power transmission to make sure that the countries are connected; for example we will invest in the interconnection between Tanzania and Kenya that will link the EAC to the southern Africa power pool.