NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars will face a tough test today as they face hosts Kenya’s Harambee Stars in the return leg tie of 2020 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers. The two neighbouring countries faceoff in the second leg tie at Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya after the first game ended all square at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. Going into the match today, Taifa Stars Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije said they are in Nairobi to rectify the mistakes they did in the first leg. “We did some mistakes in the first leg and we are here to rectify. We have worked hard and I’m optimistic we will beat Kenya on Sunday (today),” he told journalists in Nairobi. Ndayiragije is plotting the downfall of their hosts and it will be another opportunity for Taifa Stars to revive hopes of sailing into the next stage of the competition knowing that any draw involving goals will be enough for them to reach the next round. Ndayiragije reiterated that his side has big advantage to win, saying that holding Harambee Stars to a goalless draw at home (Dar es Salaam) is a big advantage for his team ahead of the return battle. “The fact that we never conceded a goal has a big value to us because during the next match, it will be them playing with pressure not to allow a goal from us meaning that they will approach the game defensively while for us, we will open up to at least score a crucial away goal,” he said. Skipper and striker John Bocco echoed his sentiments: “The morale in the team is high and we are in Kenya to win and advance to the next stage. We did not score at home but that does not mean we will not score on Sunday (today). We will battle until the final whistle and I am hoping we proceed to the next stage.” Defender Erasto Nyoni said Taifa Stars must act like “soldiers defending the honour of the country. “Tanzanians love the national football team and this must motivate us to do even better than in the first leg,” he said. Stars could have an advantage against disgruntled hosts as it is reported that all is not good in Harambee Stars camp. For the umpteenth time, Harambee Stars preparations ahead of an international assignment have been hampered by financial challenges after the government delayed in releasing the required funds, totalling to 19 million K-shillings. Either way, the paper reported, Harambee Stars developmental side is unlikely to be in the right frame of mind during Sunday’s CHAN qualifier against Tanzania because Harambee Stars players were yet to receive their camping allowances from the government. The Kenyan law requires all national teams competing in international assignments be funded by the government. Regardless, Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne is optimistic his charges will do better at home and has called upon fans to fill the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. “We have improved a lot and we expect to win at home. The ticket price has been slashed to KSh100 and I expect a full stadium on Sunday (today). It is always good to have home fans on your side. We want to be very compact at the back to avoid conceding and clinical offensively, at least score a goal or two,” he said after a training session at the Utalii grounds on Friday.