DEPUTY Minister for Agriculture Hussein Bashe has invited financial institutions to contribute to the development of the cotton subsector. He said this as he visited the NMB Bank Pavilion during the ongoing Nanenane Exhibition. Mr Bashe said the government would sure there was a clear chain of procurement and supply of pesticides and inputs which from next year would be bought in bulk. "So, we plan to involve financial service providers (banks) to come up with an ideal financing model that can be introduced to help implement the plan," he said. He said the views of financial institutions were crucial as the government was reviewing the Agricultural Policy, which would include how best strategic crops would be revived. On cotton production, he said banks like NMB were expected to remain supportive to ensure perennial challenges related to pesticides and inputs came to an end. According to him, the main target is to ensure the needs of suppliers are established and an international tender is finally floated. Earlier, NMB Head of Government Banking Vicky Bishubo and Agribusiness Senior Relationship Manager John Machunda were of the view that more public aware- ness was needed to increase youth engagement in the agricultural sector. "We have planned to provide public awareness sessions during this Nanenane period for the youth and all interested people to showcase opportunities available and encourage them to participate in agricultural activities and enjoy financial support from NMB," said Bishubo. For his part, Mr Machunda said contract farming had ben- efited at least 400,000 farmers, who had been reached by the bank so far. About 140bn/- has been issued to different farmers’ organisations as up to June this year out of 500bn/- earmarked to be issued in the next five years. Mr Moses Masalu and Pendo Phales commended NMB for providing financial literacy at the pavilion, saying many farmers used to keep money at home, which was dangerous. Entrepreneur Raphael Buja, a beekeeper from Igunga Tabora Region, said he had achieved a lot, thanks to NMB support. "I opened an account in 2011, but my capital has grown tremendously to about 80m/-. I can now manage to export honey to Kenya and Rwanda apart from selling locally as well," he said. Due to the booming bee- keeping business, Mr Buja plans to construct a modern warehouse for professional storage of honey. He urged the government to look into a pos- sibility of introducing a honey processing factory in the district.