A DAY of reckoning for people who smuggle minerals out of the country might be on the horizon as Manyara Miners Association (MAREMA) vowed to list names of the perpetrators from the region and outside. That comes as businesspersons in the sector decide to undertake the task as a means to commend President John Magufuli and the Government for setting up mineral trade centres throughout the country to curb theft of the highly valued natural resources. MAREMA Chairman Justin Nyari, during an occasion to launch a mineral trade centre at Orlkesumet, Simanjiro District, said they would have no more time to spare names of smugglers, but release them to respective authorities for the law to follow its course. “We have found this (shaming the smugglers) as the best way to show support to President Magufuli who stood up for us so that we could have fair trade in minerals by launching mineral trade centres in different regions. Now we will proceed by shaming those who are against that,” said Mr Nyari. The trader said that selling minerals at the official centres would not only earn them their fair share in the trade but also pave the way for the government to get its allocation in taxes and other various charges in accordance with the law and regulations put. Mr Nyari said at Marema, they would be inept leaders if they kept quiet on the mess that is meant to deny the government of its payments and approve illegal acts. He said there was no reason whatsoever for any businessperson smuggling minerals out of the country while there are enough centres in the country. “We at Marema are at the forefront to support President Magufuli by coming out with names of those that mudsling the nation through illegal trade activities due to their greed that pushes them to smuggle minerals out of the country. The time has come, and it is indeed here to shame them so that legal actions are taken against them,” said Mr Nyari. He noted that they would throw their weight behind the government now than no other time, due to the fact that in the 2019/20 budget deliberations, the Government abolished a lot of taxes as well as get rid of some regulations that were suppressive to businesspersons. Acting Mirerani Minerals Officer n-Charge, Engineer Castro Maduwa said they are set to surpass 6bn/- tax collection target in 2019/20. They come up with a goal to enhance cooperation between his office and the businesspersons. Engineer Maduwa said that in the financial year 2018/19 they had a target to collect 1.5bn/- but exceeded it as it came out that they collected 2.8bn/-. Simanjiro District Commissioner (DC), Engineer Zephani Chaula, said the use of the centre would improve the district’s economy as well as of individual businesspersons while the Government will get its taxes. Minerals to be traded at the centre are tanzanite, ruby, green tomarine and green gainet. Engineer Chaula said the government is determined to get rid of bureaucracy at all levels, specifically in the mineral sector and appreciated the pledge by Marema to shake the fellows who smuggle minerals out of the country. Another mineral trade centre is due to be launched at Mirerani town, the DC saying it is a great effort. He said social services that are being provided by the Government are a result of getting taxes from people in different sectors. He said businesspersons should not misuse the trust bestowed upon them by evading tax.