SEVEN out of twelve teams from East African Community (EAC) member states have advanced to the first round of the both CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup, most of them making hard-fought wins. Tanzania has managed to enter three teams at the first round while also losing other three, including the heartbreaking elimination of the region’s powerhouse Simba. Uganda has lost none after KCCA, in Champions League and Proline in Confederation Cup sailing through. Kenya has lost Bandari, while giants Gor Mahia, who are in the Champions League, advanced with a voluminous 5-1 victory over Aigle Noir of Burundi. Rwanda has lost an envoy for the Champions League race after Rayon Sport were eliminated by El Hilal of Sudan on the away goal rule. But its Confederation Cup envoy, As Kigali qualified for the second round courtesy of 2-1 victory against Tanzanian debutants, KMC. Three envoys from Tanzania are Young Africans who eliminated Township Rollers of Botswana by 2-1 aggregate win. The teams drew 1-1 in Dar es Salaam and Yanga went on to win 1-0 away in Gaborone in one of the shocking Champions League results as records favoured the Rollers to win easily at home. Other Tanzanian envoys; Azam FC who eliminated Fasil Ketema from Ethiopia and Malindi who sailed through after a slim 1-0 win over Mogadishu City are playing in the Confederation Cup. Overall, EAC has managed to enter Yanga, Gor Mahia and KCCA at the Champions League while AS Kigali, Azam, Proline and Malindi are racing for the Confederation Cup glory. Uganda’s Proline Football Club held Masters Security Services of Malawi to a goal-less draw during the return leg of the CAF Confederation Cup played at the Bingu National Stadium in Lilongwe city. But the Ugandan envoys progressed to the next stage 3-0 on aggregate. Proline will now square off with Rwanda’s Association Sportive (AS) De Kigali who eliminated Tanzania’s Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) following a 2-1 away win at the national stadium in Dar es salaam. The reverse fixture in Dar es Salaam had ended in a 1-1 draw and Young Africans needed victory to advance to the next stage Juma Balinya opened his continental account with a very important goal for Young Africans as they sunk Botswana’s Township Rollers 1-0 to advance to the next stage in the Caf Champions League. The first leg in Dar es Salaam ended in a 1-1 draw and Township Rollers were favourites to progress. But the Tanzanian giants and Balinya had other ideas as they won to advance 2-1 on aggregate. Yanga will clash with Zambia’s Zesco United. In Nairobi, Nicholas Kipkurui masterminded Gor Mahia’s 5-1 aggregate win over Burundi's Aigle Noir at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. Despite consistently being overlooked for national team duty, the 26-year old attacker needed 37 first half minutes to score twice and aid his team towards a comfortable victory against the tame opponents. The Confederation Cup’s first round match between Proline of Uganda and their neighbours AS Kigali is all EAC affair, while Malindi have to clear Egypt’s El Masry hurdle to advance further. KCCA will take on Petro Luanda of Angola while Gor Mahia are pitted against USM Alger of Algeria.