NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars interim Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije has predicted a tough encounter in the Wednesday’s 2022 World Cup Qatar qualifier clash against Burundi. Stars will travel to Bujumbura for the first leg clash against ‘Int’hamba Murugamba’ before hosting the Burundians at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a week later. The Burundian tactician is aware that the game against his native side is going to be tough, insisting that their opponents have a good squad that comprised some fresh blood. Ndayiragije took charge of the team from Nigerian football legend, Emmanuel Amunike, who parted ways with the team on mutual agreement, after unsatisfactory performance in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt last June. “We are aware that our opponents have a good team, which had also participated in AFCON finals this year, but we are well prepared to face them and we are looking forward for a competitive, tough and thrilling away game. Ndayiragije said players picked in the squad for two-legged clash are currently training at the Boko Veteran ground in Dar es Salaam and are responding well to his training regime. “Our training sessions are going on smoothly and almost all local based players except those of Simba are in camp. Foreign based players are also expected soon,” he said. According to Ndayiragije, Simba players were expected to report for camp yesterday after their Thursday’s Mainland Premier League match against JKT Tanzania that ended 3-1 victory for Simba. Seven Simba players summoned by Ndayiragije are Benno Kakolanya, Shomari Kapombe, Gadiel Michael, Mohamed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni, Hassan Dilunga and Jonas Mkude. Coach Ndayiragije has also said that most of the foreign based players are yet to report in camp. However, reports from within the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) had it that the players are expected to jet in the country this weekend. Foreign based players include Belgium’s KRC Genk striker Mbwana Samatta, Himid Mao (ENPPI, Egypt), Ally N’ganzi (Minnesota, USA) and Abdillahie Yussuf (Blackpool, England) Others are Farid Mussa (Tenerife, Spain) Hassan Kessy (Nkana, Zambia), Abdi Banda (Highlands, South Africa), Eliuter Mpepo (Bidco, Zambia) and Simon Msuva from Morocco’s Difaa Al Jadida. Should Taifa Stars see off Burundi, they will be one of the 14 winners in the qualification playoffs to join the continent’s top-ranked 26 sides, who have been exempted from the preliminary stage of the long journey to Qatar. Qualifiers for the next World Cup in Qatar will be divided into three stages with two rounds of knockout ties on either side of league competition, officials said. The 28 lowest ranked sides on the continent will first contest a knockout round over two legs, with the 14 winners advancing to the group stage. The 28 include Madagascar, who reached the Africa Cup of Nations quarterfinals last week. The winners will join the 26 highest ranked sides in a 40-team, 10-group pool phase that will be played over 18 months. The group winners will then be drawn into five playoff ties over two legs with the victors qualifying for the World Cup. The first leg is hosted by the lower ranked country.