Tanzanians are proud of today when they say “Karibu tena” (Welcome again) to their colleagues from the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) member states who arrived in Dar es Salaam this week for the 39th SADC Summit of Heads of State. Some Heads of State once hosted in various camps of freedom fighters in our country arrived in Dar es Salaam this week to attend the SADC 39th Summit. #SadcSummit2019 To Dar es Salaam residents who hosted and gave these freedom fighters houses to live in freely are overjoyed to receive them once again on a red carpet compared to the past when they entered Tanzania through our border posts while fleeing from their home countries. Yes, our guests and, particularly those presidents, would have loved to go around Dar es Salaam streets to meet and talk to their former house neighbours where they used to stay -- at Keko flats, Changombe government quarters Bungoni in Ilala, Upanga, Lumumba and even Oysterbay where many officers stayed during the independence struggle. In Kinondoni district, the late Mozambican PresiFreedom fighters return to ‘second home’ as presidentsdent Samora Machel stayed at House No. 24 Kilini Street in the posh Oysterbay area while the founding President of the Mozambican Liberation Front (FRELIMO) Dr Eduardo Mondalane stayed in a House No. 88B which he bought when he arrived in Tanzania early 1962 to join the independence struggle. Angolan first President Dr Augostinho Neto is believed to have stayed at Kurasini where the People’s Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) militant had a camp. Several Tanzanians individually hosted the freedom fighters by giving free accommodation to some freedom fighters during their struggle. Oliver Tambo, who first became the representative of the African National Congress (ANC) of South Africa in Tanzania received that hospitality from the then Director of Immigration Mzee Raphael Kubaga. Some of liberation movements in Southern Africa used to frequent Dar es Salaam from the combat zones and were often seen at selected clubs where they could relax after their field operations in Mozambique, Angola and Namibia, let alone South Africa and Zimbabwe (then known Southern Rhodesia). Coast region, once part of Dar region, had camps at Ruvu used by the ANC and Pan-Africanist Congress as a vocational training centre for their youths who were prepared for semi- skilled positions as a means of self-reliance. The FRELIMO had a famous camp at Kaole in Bagamoyo district where President Samora Machel used sometimes to stay with ZANU-PF leaders such as incumbent Zimbabwean President Emmerson Dambudzo Munangagwa. During his last year’s first state visit to Tanzania as Zimbabwean president, Mr Munangagwa donated over $100,000 for the Kaole renovation as a gesture of his personal recognition. The Mozambique Institute, today transformed as Centre for International Relations and Diplomacy at Kurasani, was for FRELIMO children who had fled their country. The school offered higher education and semi-professional skills to prepare them in serving their country in future. The Kongwa freedom fighters camp will remain historic place where all leaders of the liberation movements – South West Africa People’s Organisation (SWAPO), FRELIMO, MPLA, ANC, and ZANU-PF -- had trained. Graves of SWAPO, ANC, and FRELIMO men and women have made first Angolan President Sam Nujoma and his Mozambican counterpart Armando Guebuza during their presidency to travel the over 40-km road from Dodoma to Kongwa cemetery to pay their respect to their fellow freedom fighters who died during the independence struggle. Farm 17 in Nachingwea district in the south of Tanzania is a key training camp where the FRELIMO militants trained and assembled before entering Mozambique fight the Portuguese colonial forces. Nachingwea will remain another historical place for the FRELIMO and ZANU-PF in Tanzania as a key route towards Zimbabwe and Mozambique independence. It is through this camp where the ZANU PF militants were rescued by the Nigerian government after failing to get means of transport from Nachingwea to Maputo and then inside Zimbabwe. According to Gen. Mirisho Sam Hagai Sarakikya, the first Tanzanian Chief of the Defence Forces, the government of Nigeria did send its army air-force plane to airlift about 2,000 ZANU-PF combatants stranded at Farm 17 to Maputo on the request of the frontline states which pushing for the liberation struggle in southern Africa. Nigeria joined the frontline states during the Gen Olusegun Obasanjo regime. That’s why the frontline states were later baptized later as five-plus-one from its original members: Tanzania, Zambia, Botswana, Angola and Mozambique. The frontline states were, indeed, the strategists on number of issues implemented by the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) Liberation Committee. Occasionally, the meetings of the frontline states were as well attended by the late Brig. Gen. Hashim Mbita, the then Executive Secretary of the OAU Liberation Committee. Ambassador Paul Rupia, a former Chief Secretary during the President Ali Hassan Mwinyi administration, was the first officer to head the desk of the OAU Liberation Committee in Addis Ababa when it was established in 1963. Ambassador Sebastian Chale was appointed as its first Executive Secretary. Ambassador Dr Salim Ahmed Salim, who later became the OAU Secretary-General, says the OAU Liberation Committee did a tremendous job but blames Africa for failing to accomplish its mission in Western Sahara. Dr Salim urges Africa to sit together with the United Nations to try to resolve the Western Sahara political problem with Morocco. Ambassador John Malecela, also an eminent Tanzanian diplomat and former Prime Minister, asserts that the SADC countries have all the reasons to change the Uhuru Railway into a Standard Gauge Railway line and extend it to Luanda in Angola and Durban in South Africa. He says the TAZARA railway played a key role in Angola’s independence struggle by transporting weapons from Dar es Salaam port.