PRIME Minister, Kassim Majaliwa, has invited investors, both local and foreign, to invest in Kagera Region by constructing medium and large processing industries due to its conducive environment and political tranquillity. He explained that Kagera was strategically located, sharing borders with four countries, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya across Lake Victoria, with a population market of 190 million. Equally, he challenged Tanzanians to grab investment opportunities in the Great Lakes regions, especially in the hospitality industry. He said traders on border regions of Kagera, Geita, Mwanza, Simiyu, Mara and Kigoma should forge close links and make regular visits to neighbouring countries. Premier Majaliwa made the remarks while opening the Kagera Week exhibitions held at the Gymkhana Grounds in Bukoba Municipal Council today. He noted that the upgrading of Ibanda, Rumanyika and Burigi Chato National Parks was a golden opportunity where Tanzanians can benefit through the construction of five-star hotels. “The private sector through Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (TCCIA), should have close links with their counterparts in Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),” he said, adding that the government was prepared to assist investors. “My office is open 24 hours. Any investor who encounters any problems is welcome to contact me any time,” he added. Premier Majaliwa said over 95 per cent of the roads were tarmacked, while social services, including the construction of hospitals, health centres and dispensaries were in full swing, saying all this aims to afford attractive climate to investors. He noted that Kagera had conducive weather with plenty of rainfall ranging between 600-2,000 millimetres and that it is the leading producer of coffee, including Robusta and Arabica coffee. “It also has an annual production of 2.3 million tons of bananas, and this is another area for investment, in the agricultural industry, by constructing industries to process and add value to crops,” he hinted. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig-Gen Marco Gaguti, explained that income per capita increased from 667,000/-during 2010 to 1,300,000/-last year, while the regional per capita also increased from 1.3tril/-during 2017 to 4 .9tril/-last year.