THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), will from next week embark on a sensitization mission in the Comoros and Zimbabwe, with a view of promoting the court’s activities in the two countries. The Arusha-based court will use the two weeks to promote its judicial work on the continent. “These visits will help to raise awareness of the Court’s existence and encourage African States to ratify the Protocol establishing the Court and make the Declaration to allow individuals and others to access the Court directly,’’ stressed AfCHPR President, Justice Sylvain Oré yesterday. During the Mission, the delegation of the Court will be led by Justice Oré, Justice Ben Achour and senior Registry officials. Among other things, the court’s delegation will pay courtesy calls on key officials in the two countries, including Foreign Affairs Ministers, Ministers of Justice and speakers of parliaments. "For the Court to dis- charge its mandate effec- tively and further strength- en the African human rights system, a greater number of countries must ratify the Protocol and make the Declaration under Article 34(6),’’ underlined President Oré. While Zimbabwe is yet to ratify the Protocol and make declaration, the Comoros ratified the Protocol on December 23, 2013 but is yet to make the declaration. The AfCHPR was established by virtue of Ar- ticle 1 of the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Establishment of an African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights, to complement the protective mandate of the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights, with a view to enhancing the protection of human rights on the continent. Since the adoption of the Protocol in June 1998, 30 of 55 AU Member States have ratified it, and only nine State Parties to the Protocol have made the declaration under Article 34(6). These are Burkina Faso, Benin, Ghana, Gambia, Cote d’Ivoire, Mali, Malawi, Tanzania and Tunisia. Composed of 11 Judges, the Court had by July 2019 received 220 applications, of which 62 have been finalised.