ENVOYS appointed to represent Tanzania to other nations have showered praise to President John Magufuli for his courage and strong commitment in using own sources to fund the mega Standard Gauge Railway Project (SGR). The project is expected to ease trade within the country, East Africa and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region. Upon its completion, the railway line is anticipated to link Tanzania with neighboring countries of Rwanda and Uganda, and through these two, to Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo, where transportation of goods, cargo and passengers will be sustainable and at cheaper rates. Speaking in different occasions when 42 ambassadors carried out a tour of the SGR project, the envoys expressed optimism to the president and his vision of taking the economy of the country into greater heights. According to the Tanzanian High Commissioner to Britain, Dr Asha-Rose Migiro, being able to witness the country implementing major projects in the continent is quite appealing and encouraging because funds used for its execution are coming from within. Dr Migiro pointed out that in fostering economic diplomacy; infrastructure development is among crucial areas. The Ambassador of Tanzania to the United States and Mexico, Mr Wilson Masilingi, noted that existence of the railway line in the country is remarkable. “As we move in the right direction, the youth should be enlightened on patriotism, including where the country is from, in order to contribute to the development of the country,” said Amb Masilingi. The country’s Ambassador to Brazil, Dr Emmanuel Nchimbi disclosed that for those who have worked with President Magufuli in past, they are aware of his ability, and they have been anticipating the remarkable harvest the country is making in various areas. He called upon members of the public to continue supporting the journey of the president so that he can implement greater things. Earlier on, the Director General of Tanzania Railway Company (TRC), Mr Masanja Kadogosa, disclosed that from August 4 this year, implementation of the project stood at 60.4 percent. Mr Kadogosa observed that implementation of the project from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro is anticipated to be complete by November this year, from Morogoro to Makutupora in Dodoma in February next year. “A total of 3.1 billion US dollars, including tax, will be spent in executing the two phases, the first one from Morogoro to Dar es Salaam (1.2 billion US dollars) and 1.9 billion dollars for the second phase,” noted the DG. He further said that all the raw materials as witnessed by the envoys was manufactured within the country, noting that this has helped to ensure quality and reduce cost which could have been incurred from importation. The DG added that in other countries, similar flagship mega projects are being used to brand the country as it clearly demonstrates their true vision. “The use of electricity compared to diesel makes the railway line much cheaper and sustainable for people intending to use it to trade with neighboring countries in the EAC and SADC,” he said. Mr Kadogosa also disclosed that up to 60 percent of the prices will be cut to transport goods to DRC, which will make transportation more competitive.