GRUMETI Reserves is seen as a role model investor that has immensely contributed to boosting development activities in the wildlife-rich Serengeti District in Mara Region. This is the view of local leaders who spoke to the ‘Daily News’ in Mugumu recently. “Grumeti Reserves is a huge and an exemplary investor in Serengeti District. The investor is paying all taxes to the government as well as supporting development projects in our communities, “ Mr John Ng’oina, the former Serengeti district council chairman who is currently a councilor in Mbalibari Ward in Serengeti said. “The company gives Serengeti District Council 200 million shillings every year; this is a substantial amount and he has been doing so for many years,” Mr Ng’oina, who served as chairman in Serengeti district council for five different terms, said. “The investor has also invested a lot on communities by supporting construction of modern public schools and offering scholarships to many bright students. If we could have five investors like Grumeti Reserves, our district would have been one of the most highly developed districts in the country, “ he added. Current Serengeti District Council Chairman Mr Juma Porini, said the 200 million shillings they got from Grumeti Reserves every year was injected in development projects, priority being given to social services. “It is true that Grumeti Reserves has greatly contributed to transforming the lives of Serengeti residents, not only in the neighbouring villages but also in other areas of the district. And the government is earning much revenue from the investor,” Mr Porini further said. Grumeti Reserves is a conservation and eco-tourism company that operates a number of world class luxurious lodges in Western Serengeti. Sasakwa which has been named by Travel-Leisure Magazine of the United States the best hotel in the world several times, is one of the lodges owned by Grumeti Reserves. Others are Singita Grumeti lodges, Singita Faru Faru Lodge, Singita Sabora Tented Camp, Singita Explore and Singita Serengeti House and the remote Lamai triangle which offers Singita Mara River Tented Camp. The investor also supports activities focused on protecting and conserving the Serengeti eco system for the present and future generations through Grumeti Fund.