PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Higher Education Students' Loans Board (HESLB) management to address challenges surrounding the issuance of loans to students of higher learning institutions, including rethinking its decision of denying loans to students from private schools. He pointed out a scenario where some students from poor families, who were not selected to join public schools, found sponsors who paid for their education in private schools, but wouldn’t have made it if they were not supported. The PM gave the directives yesterday at a meeting with the Tanzania Higher Learning Institutions Students Organisation (TAHLISO) at Nkurumah Hall, University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM). “The act of HESLB to deny loans to some of the students on the basis that they studied at private schools without satisfying themselves of the type of family they are from, is denying the students the opportunity to continue with higher education,” he noted. He further warned vice chancellors, who diverted HESLB funds to other projects and delaying students to get loans. He also requested the vice chancellors to utilise practical training in universities, as researches on employment revealed the importance of practicals in grasping theories studied in class. “Universities should ensure students utilise practical training so that they may benefit from it and acquire the skills intended. I also urge employers to cooperate with universities to assist interns,” he said. TAHLISO Chairman Peter Niboye noted that among the challenges they faced was the delay of loans to some universities even after HESLB had released them to the respective universities. He commended the fifth phase government for the support it gave to the organisation and enabling it to fulfil its responsibilities. Dodoma District Commissioner Patrobas Katambi handed the PM a title deed for the construction of TAHLISO offices, which was then handed to the TAHLISO chairperson. The meeting was also attended by Minister for Education, Science, Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda, Kinondoni District commissioner Godfrey Chongolo, Ubungo District commissioner Kisare Makori and leaders from various universities in the country that form TAHLISO.