YOUNG Africans are due to head to Kilimanjaro region to pitch camp ahead of the CAF Champions League preliminary round, second leg match against Township Rollers of Botswana. The match will be held at the National Stadium in Gaborone, Botswana in two weeks’ time in which, Yanga face a must win or draw of more than two goals to sail through into the first round of the continental top tier club championship. The two teams shared spoils following a 1-1 draw at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Reports within the Jangwani Street club had it that Yanga will leave Dar es Salaam today for camp in Kilimanjaro, where they will play several friendly matches. Yanga had to wait until five minutes to the final whistle to register a draw, when Patrick Sibomana netted through a spot kick to cancel out Phenyo Serameng’s strike in the 7th minute. The spot kick was awarded to Yanga after a defender handed the ball in an attempt to clear the danger in the box. Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera said their objective is to score more than two goals away against Township Rollers. The Congolese tactician remained confident that his team will be able to snatch away victory and that they will aim to score more than two goals to cruise into the next chapter of the competition. “If they (Township Rollers), managed to score here, we can also do the same at their place by netting not less than two goals,” Zahera said. He added that it was evident from the match that his charges misused many scoring chances while naming Namibian, Sadney Urikhob and Ugandan, Juma Balinya as the ones who had the best chances to enable the team emerge winners on the day. “Our fitness level had improved a bit, compared to the last game international friendly against Kariobangi Sharks of Kenya. Today, we played well but we lost many chances. I noticed that Rollers were stronger in the midfield and we had to switch and use the flanks in our attacks, and the good thing we managed to score the equaliser. We can score two goals away and win, the game is not over yet.” Zahera then revealed that from now, they will start doing only goal scoring training sessions ahead of the reverse clash since their number one priority is to win in Botswana at all cost. On his part, Township Rollers Head Coach, Tomas Truch said they will need to be 100 per cent perfect to derail Yanga at their backyard and should improve a lot. “In the first half, we played very well and we succeeded to fill all the areas that Yanga are good at something which necessitated us to get the leading goal. “In the second half, our opponents came up with a new game plan as they used wings to get into our side something which was a bit tricky for us to contain hence giving them a chance to equalise through a penalty,” he said. Moreover, the coach said with full backing expected from their home fans in the next match, it will surely be a difficult game for Yanga who he said had vocal supporters inside the 60,000 capacity National Stadium on the day. He described Yanga as a strong side and insisted that if they will approach the next match as they played in the second half, they will not manage to win at their territory unless they improve.