TANZANIA is one of the few African states that implement the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR) verdicts. The Pan African judicial body yesterday commended the East African nation for its relentless zeal on full implementation of judgments and orders rendered by the continental court. Responding to a question by Zimbabwean advocate Vunganai Chivure who sought to establish the level of political will by African states as far as the verdicts were concerned, AfCHPR Deputy Registrar Nouhou Diallo said Tanzania was among the few countries that comply with the court’s directives. Mr Diallo noted that while other African countries were still dragging feet in implementing the Arusha-based court’s judgments, Tanzania had continuously exhibited its willingness in executing them. “Sadly, the implementation rate remains low and quite often there has been blatant lack of political will, except for some countries like Tanzania,” explained AfCHPR Deputy Registrar on the first day of the third training for counsel on the court’s roster yesterday. According to Mr Diallo, Tanzania had responded well in implementing AfCHPR’s directive on a case facing Alex Thomas, a convict of a criminal offence. In a judgment delivered late last month, AfCHPR awarded compensation to Thomas and his close relatives for violations of his basic rights. The court ruled that the Tanzanian government had failed to provide the convict free legal representation during his trial, infringing his basic rights. The judicial organ further ordered the Tanzanian government to take necessary measures within reasonable time to remedy the violations found, which it duly obliged. “The state responded positively in handling Alex Thomas’ matter before the court,” he said. Mr Diallo also hailed Tanzania on how it handled the application filed on June 2, 2011 by the Tanganyika L aw Society (TL S) and the L egal Human Rights Centre (L HRC) on behalf of the late Rev Christopher Mtikila, challenging the constitutional amendments, which barred any person to be elected as president, member of parliament and councillor unless they were members of a political party. Speaking in Arusha three years ago, the then Minister for Constitutional and L egal Affairs Dr Harrison Mwakyemne said the matter will be considered under the Proposed Constitution. Dr Mwakyembe quashed reports that the government had ditched the issue. In the same vein, AfCHPR also singled out for praise the neighbouring Kenya on her pledge to honour the court’s landmark ruling, which ordered reparations of the Ogiek Community from the Rift Valley’s Mau Forest. “Kenya and B urkina Faso have also enforced the judgments that were delivered by the African court, a clear testimony of their commitment,” added Mr Diallo. Since the adoption of the Protocol of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights in June 1998, 30 out of the 55 African U nion member states that have ratified it, only nine state parties to the protocol had made the declaration under Article 34 (6 ). They are B urkina Faso, B enin, Ghana, Gambia, Cote d’Ivoire, Mali, Malawi, Tanzania and Tunisia.