THE Court of Appeal has saved the then public corporation, Mwananchi Engineering and Contracting Co. Limited (MECCO), from paying businessman, Mr Ahmed Mbaraka, some billions of shillings in a dispute case of purchasing a stone crusher. Justices; Kipenka Mussa, Stella Mugasha and Shaban Lila reached into such decision after reversing findings of the High Court, which had ruled in favour of the businessman, the respondent in the appeal. After the trial, the High Court had ordered the appellant company to pay the respondent 540m/-, other 2m/-per day from the date of filing the suit till, when the crusher would be delivered to him and interest on the decretal amount at the court’s rate from the date of judgment till when payment would be made in full. Having been aggrieved by the High Court judgment, the appellant took the matter to the appeals court alleging, among others, that at the time the respondent instituted the suit, the appellant company was a specified authority, which could only be sued upon securing leave of the court. In their judgment, the justices of the appeals court noted that the suit in question was instituted before the High Court on August 21, 2005. Referring to a Government Notice No. 543 of 1997, they said that it was evident, therefore, that the appellant became a Specified Corporation right from August 22, 1997. They pointed out that such position remained to be the status of the appellant till the August 31, 2006 when it was disestablished by the Mwananchi Engineering Contracting Corporation (Disestablishment) Order, Government Notice No. 133 of 2011 which was published on April 1, 2011. According to the justices, in the light of the Government Notice, the appellant’s status as a specified corporation lasted from August 22, 1997 to August 31, 2006. They said that the suit which was instituted therefore instituted within the time when the appellant was a specified corporation. The justices were of the view that as the establishment Order clearly states, the provisions of the Public Corporations Act, 1992 applied. They said that under the provisions of section 43(1) of the Public Corporations Act, 1992 as amended by Act No. 16 of 1993, the Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) became the official receiver and the provisions of the Bankruptcy Ordinance became applicable. “In view of the above, we agreed with the learned counsel for the appellant that at the time, the suit was instituted and the appellant was a specified corporation. The respondent was therefore obliged to seek and be granted leave to sue before the suit was instituted,” the justices ruled. In the matter at hand, they noted that ‘no leave of the court’ was sought and granted before the suit was instituted. Consequently, the justices concluded that the High Court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the matter. “The proceedings before it were therefore a nullity. We invoke the powers of revision bestowed to us under section 4(2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act and hereby accordingly quash the proceedings and judgment and also set aside all the orders made by the High Court,” the justices declared. The appellant’s seizure from the respondent of a stone crusher which was allegedly bought by one Godwin Gabone in a public auction in execution of a court decree and later sold to the respondent formed the crux of the civil action before the High Court. After consideration of the evidence of both sides, the High Court was satisfied that the respondent had proved his claims and proceeded to enter judgment in favour of the respondent (then plaintiff), as prayed in the amended plaint.