THE Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), has committed USD 680,000, equivalent to 1.6bn/-, to the government to strengthen the implementation of phase II of the Agricultural Sector Development Programme (ASDP II). The amount tops up the ongoing implementation of the 5-year flagship project- Partnership for Inclusive Agricultural Transformation (PIATA), which farmers in Tanzania food basket regions call ‘Kilimo Tija/ Pata Tija project’. The project kicked off in 2017, with AGRA directly supporting farmers’ organizations. The latest support seeks to catalyze more sustainable, inclusive, productive, profitable and solution-based agriculture (kilimo Tija), according to AGRA President, Dr Agnes Kalibata. AGRA made the grant during the launch of “Strengthening Coordination of ASDP II at Regional and Local Government Authorities (SCALGA)” Program in Dodoma on Monday. Dr Kalibata said that AGRA was committed to supporting the government of Tanzania roll-out of ASDP II and strengthening the agricultural sector coordination and delivery in planning, coordination, implementation and creating an enabling environment. “The grant will strengthen implementation of ASDP II,” she noted. SCALGA is an initiative that includes partnering with the government in the rollout of ASDP II and strengthening the agricultural sector coordination and delivery; As well as creating an enabling policy environment that attracts increased private sector investments. SCALGA will strengthen the already existing successes, in ASDP II Program at local and regional government level. The ASDP II covers 12 regions across the country and will cover 30 local government authorities in the country. SCALGA Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), was exchanged between AGRA’s President and the government through the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Eng. Joseph Nyamhanga. The PS said Tanzania was fully committed to improving the agriculture sector, saying the implementation of ASDP II started last year and is being implemented by different ministries, including ministries of agriculture, livestock and fishing. “RALG are major stakeholders in the implementation of ASDP II. We will hand over the MoU to the Ministry of Finance and the AG office for commendation. RALG will be in charge of coordinating the program in the regions,” he said. In the last five years, Tanzania has managed to produce more food than she needs, noted the Deputy PS, Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Siza Donald Tumbo. “Tanzania has not known hunger for the last five years. We want our farmers to get the best inputs at affordable prices. We are championing for agribusiness which calls for more production to meet market needs in and outside Tanzania,” he noted.