AT least 50bn/- has been spent by contractors and ordinary wananchi during the construction of new government offices at Ihumwa area in Dodoma city. The Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, said yesterday that the money was circulated to contractors and residents of Dodoma through the ongoing construction projects. He was briefing Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who visited the site to inspect the ongoing construction of the Ministry of Finance and Planning base. “This mega project, which involves the construction of various ministries, has benefitted contractors and wananchi in this area. Contractors have benefitted through construction tenders while ordinary wananchi have been able to get jobs and engage in various businesses,” he said. The premier commended the good job, saying he was satisfied with the progress in the implementation of the project. “I am impressed by the progress, the Ministry of Finance and Planning building has reached 99 per cent of construction,” he said. He has ordered the ministry to ensure all required furniture is installed in the building and its surroundings are beautified to match the status of the office. The premier also instructed the building contractor, the National Housing Corporation (NHC), to immediately work on some challenges that have been identified during the inspection. “I want NHC to make some changes on the basis of what has been observed during the inspection, starting with the entrance door; this job must be completed immediately before the official opening of the offices,” he said. President John Magufuli is expected to officially open the new ministries offices soon. The ministry’s Deputy Permanent Secretary, Dr Khatib Kazungu, said his office would implement the prime minister’s instructions immediately to facilitate the use of the offices as scheduled. NHC representative, Eng Elisante Ulomi commended the Ministry for Finance and Planning for their support during the construction of the offices, which commenced on December 29, 2018. He said NHC will immediately work on the premier’s instruction to enable smooth finishing of the building.