TANZANIA has assured the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) that it will continue to further the development of nuclear science in the country. According to the Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Mr William ole Nasha, Tanzania will continue to engage the international organisation in spearheading the 9bn/- worth projects that have been anchored on water, energy and agricultural sectors. Mr Nasha made the pledge shortly before opening the National Liaison Officers meeting here yesterday. He further reaffirmed the country’s support and cooperation to IAEA, while also highlighting the major achievements registered on nuclear fronts. “Tanzania acknowledges the support by IAEA as it has been participating in more than 30 nuclear projects in Africa,” he said. Mr ole Nasha pointed out that between 2017 and 2018, IAEA had supported Tanzania by providing it most up-to-date equipment that has since been installed at the Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) in Dar es Salaam and the Bugando Medical Centre in Mwanza. The equipment, according to the minister cost the international organisation 6.2bn/-. “The organisation has also been instrumental in providing training to our staff on the safe use of atomic energy,” he added. On his part, the Director for  the Africa Technical Cooperation Department at IAEA,  Professor Shaukat Abdulrazak, commended Tanzania for embracing nuclear technology in some of its projects, saying it was clearly demonstrating its will of complementing the international organisation’s technical cooperation programmes. Prof Abdulrazak singled out ORCI as an example of Tanzania’s thirst and quest of maximizing the nuclear energy potential. “Many African countries still do not have radiotherapy services, but Tanzania has a modern health facility that is proving to be an immediate intervention to tackle non communicable diseases,” he said. He further challenged African countries to take accountability of promulgating laws and regulations with a view of establishing independent regulatory bodies. Tanzania has been an IAEA member since 1976 where its Country Programme Framework identifies seven priority areas, namely Nuclear radiation safety and security, Food and agriculture, Health and nutrition, Water resource management, Energy planning, Industrial applications and  Human resources capacity building. The Tanzania Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC) Director General Professor Lazaro Busagala told the 48 National Liaison Officers and their assistants gathered for the five day meeting that Tanzania was capitalising on nuclear energy in realising the industrialisation drive.