FOR the past three years about 124 Primary and Secondary Schools students were impregnated in Chamwino District. The revelation was made here yesterday by Chamwino District Education Officer (DEO), Mr David Mwamalasi, adding that the consequence cut short their education. He said that out of the number, between 2016 and 2018, 64 of the students were studying in Secondary and 60 in Primary Schools. Expounding, he explained that in 2016, about 38 students were realised to have been pregnant, where 15 were Form Four, eight Form Three, 12 Form Two and three Form One. In 2017, Mr Mwamalasi said 15 students were impregnated in Secondary Schools and last year about 11 also became pregnant in the same level. However, he cited outdated traditional customs and poverty as some of the reasons which led the girls to become pregnant prematurely and drop out of school. The DEO also mentioned long distance some of the students have to trek to and from schools from their homes to be making some susceptible to preys of men who waylay them on the way. He cited students from Manda, Maira Mpwayungu, Huzi, Itiso, and Sagara, who have to walk for about 15 kilometres to reach the nearest schools as some of them, who require dormitories built for them to address the problem. On his part, the area Education Officer (documentation) in Chamwino District, who doubles as Health Coordinator, Ms Annamaria Kidunda also confirmed that between 2017 and last year, the number of students were registered to have become pregnant in the area. “ Most parents in rural areas fail the girls in realising their educational dream, as they do not cater for their basic needs,” she said. Equally, the District Community Development Officer, Ms Sophia Swai, pointed out that there was a need to have dormitories for the girls so that they can be easily monitored. However, Mtera Member of Parliament (MP), Mr Livingstone Lusinde, became saddened by the pregnancy statistics in the district, saying that something should be done to revert the situation. He called for the support of the girls to disclose the names of the men who impregnate them, adding that that will make it possible to take legal actions against them.