WATER sources feeding Rufiji River must be protected at any cost, to ensure adequate flow of the precious liquid that is crucial for the construction of the mega electricity dam dubbed Stiegler’s Gorge estimated to produce 2,100 megawatts. This was stressed by the Deputy Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Environment and Union), Mr Mussa Sima, while winding up his tour of the dam’s site in Rufiji, in the company of National Environment Management Council (NEMC) Board members and management team. Among other things, the tour was aimed at monitoring adherence to environmental protection safeguards. “My office will work in collaboration with NEMC to ensure that the construction of the electricity dam at Rufiji River Basin will not lead to environmental degradation; development projects should not come at the cost of degrading the environment,” Mr Sima said. He said it was crucial to make close and regular monitoring of the construction progress, to ensure that environmental protection measures are taken throughout the project construction period. “This project will employ over 8,000 people; therefore it is crucial for authorities to ensure that the environment is friendly in serving them,” he said. Mr Sima pointed out that the project would contribute significantly to success of the envisaged middle income and industrial base economy by 2025; therefore the environmental protection agenda must be upheld throughout the construction period. He, however, noted that environmentally friendly infrastructures should be put in place before the official commencement of the project, to ensure that wild animals and other living organisms are protected. “For this project to be sustainable and effect economic development, everyone should become a custodian of water sources, especially in all the sources of Rufiji River waters,” he said. On his part, the Chairman of the NEMC Board of Directors, Prof Esnati Chaggu, said the tour had broadened their understanding of environmental issues, adding that members now stood a better chance of advising the NEMC management. “We undertook a familiariaation tour of this construction site to learn on how the project will be implemented with adherence to environmental laws that call for the conservation,” he said. The Director General of NEMC, Dr Samuel Gwamaka said the tour was successful and was of great importance especially for board members who got a chance to learn and understand the council’s role in the project.