MINISTER for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako has warned teachers, College Principals and Procurement Officers to be wary against sabotaging higher learning institutions’ infrastructure development projects. She said such acts will be classified as ‘insubordination’ and will not be tolerated, instead tough measures will be taken against anyone involved, including being seen as delaying the government’s efforts towards improving the education sector in the country. She issued the warning in a speech read on her behalf by the Acting Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Prof James Mdoe, who said some of Procurement Officers and Principals have been a setback to the infrastructures’ developmental projects in the country. The Ministers took the stance while presiding over a ceremony to handover Information and Communication Technology (ICT) equipment to 18 Colleges, courtesy of the government in collaboration with Canadian development partners. She named the Teachers Colleges which benefitted from equipments as Dakawa, Ilonga, Mandaka, Mhonda, Murutunguru, Mamire, Ndala, Sigachini, Shinyanga, Vikundi, Patandi, Tarime, Sumbawanga, Mpwapwa, Mpunguso, Tukuyu, Morogoro and Korogwe. Prof Ndalichako further said that they are doing all in their capacity to improve the learning infrastructure in the institutions to groom the best teachers, who will be banked on professionally to pass over knowledge to students for the country to have educated people. “That is why we are improving the infrastructures as we know they are the best in improving the learning and teaching modules. We will incorporate partners to have the best in all teachers’ teaching institutions in the country,” she added. The Minister hinted that the infrastructures improvements are meant to cope with science and technological changes and as well gear the country towards the industrial economy. “We have handed over 300 computers, 300 UPS and 100 projectors to some of the Teachers’ College out of over 135 institutions. Only 18 were covered under this phase with each getting equipment worth 1.26bn/- and they must take care of the investments,” she directed. However, Prof Ndalichako assured the remaining institutions that they will be equipped with the equipment as deliveries are on the way after some orders. She also cautioned the Principals against soliciting funds as contributions from the students, saying the ministry has sent guidelines over the matter and disciplinary measures will be taken against those going against the directives. Speaking on behalf of Teachers College Principals, Mr Agustine Sahili thanked the government for the support and promised to ensure that they serve the intended government’s mission. He also said that they will take good care of the equipment for them to last long and serve other coming generations.