… As IGP makes a mini-reshuffle involving nine regional police commanders. PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday appointed and promoted five police officers to become commissioners of police (CP), while Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro (pictured) made a mini-reshuffle, involving nine regional police commanders (RPCs). IGP Sirro told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that President Magufuli had promoted Assistant Commissioner of Police (DCP) Charles Mkumbo to become Commissioner of Police in-charge of Intelligence. He said the President had also promoted Assistant Commissioner of Police (DCP) Liberatus Materu Sabas to become Commissioner Police of Operations and Training, while Assistant Commissioner (DCP) Shaaban Mlai Hiki was appointed and promoted to become Commissioner of Police heading the Forensic Department. Likewise, IGP Sirro said President Magufuli had appointed and promoted Assistant Commissioner of Police (DCP) Leonard Paul Lwabuzala to become Commissioner of Police heading the Finance and Logistics Department. On the other hand, IGP Sirro said President Magufuli had transferred two Commissioners of Police from the Department of Administration and Human Resources Management in the Police Force to the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Immigration Department. The two officers transferred are Commissioner Albert Mathias Nyamhanga and Commissioner Nsato Majijani. In another development, IGP Sirro has appointed Ruvuma Regional Commissioner (RPC) Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police Gemini Mushi to become Chief Instructor of Moshi Police Academy. Njombe RPC Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SAPC) Renata Mzinga and Shinyanga RPC Assistant Commissioner of Police Simon Haule have been transferred to the Police Headquarters in Dar es Salaam. The IGP has also appointed Assistant Commissioner of Police Jonathan Shana to become Arusha RPC and ACP Amon Daud Kakwele to become Temeke RPC in Dar es Salaam Special Police Zone. IGP Sirro also appointed ACP Simon Maigwa to become Ruvuma RPC, while ACP Rashid Hamduni was appointed to serve as Njombe RPC and ACP Richard Abwao becomes Shinyanga RPC. He also appointed ACP Zuber Seif Chembera Ilala RPC in Dar es Salaam. He added that the appointments would start with immediate effect. The Police Force expects to establish a special programme of educating members of the public on the rapes of children starting from primary school to college levels. Speaking on the programme, IGP Sirro said it would help create public awareness on the effects of rapes, especially those involving children in various parts of the country. “Rape and unnaturally offences have been increasing daily. We intend to make more efforts on educating members of the public, especially primary and secondary schools and colleges on the rapes of children and elderly. We will also introduce various publications that explain that if people engage in such crimes will be arraigned and incarcerated for life,” IGP said. He said some rapes and killings of children were prompted by superstitious beliefs. “We won’t tolerate such kind of moral decay. We are Tanzanians and all of us believe in God. We assure you that the Police Force will work hard to curb the problem,” he said. He called on religious leaders and politicians and other stakeholders to cooperate and ensure such incidents were stopped and Tanzanians lived safely.