THE Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime High Court’s Division yesterday sentenced three people to a total of 317 years imprisonment for forgery and occasioning loss of 12.7bn/- to the government in a transaction relating to shipment of 329 containers. Judge Winfrida Korosso also ordered the trio, Raymond Louis, Khalid Hassan and Benson Malembo, to pay half of 12.7bn/- as compensation to the government upon completion of their respective sentences. She convicted them of 106 counts of forgery and occasioning loss out of 110 preferred against them after being satisfied by evidence produced by 34 prosecution witnesses. During the trial, the prosecution was represented by Principal State Attorney V italis Timony and State Attorney George Barasa. The judge, however, acquitted all the accused of money laundering counts for lack of evidence. Delivering the judgment, Judge Korosso sentenced Louis, an operation Safety and Security Manager at Azam ICD and Hassan, an official with Azam ICD, to three years in jail on each of 105 counts of forgery. At the same time, the duo as well as Benson Malembo, an official with Regional Cargo Services, a clearing and forwarding company, were each jailed two years for one count of occasioning loss to a specified authority. The judge explained, however, that the sentence provided will run co-current, meaning that Louis and Hassan would remain behind bars for three years only, while Malembo would be in prison for two years. She took into consideration mitigating factors advanced by the convicts that they were first offenders and were having several people, including wives and children, who all depended on them. In addition to that, Louis and Hassan had been in remand for three years pending trial. The judge, however, set free Khamis Omary, Senior Custom Business Analysts with Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and Harun Mpande, who is TRA Information Communication Technology (ICT) after the prosecution failed to prove the charges against them as required by the law. There were two other accused persons, David Chimomo and Safina Rupia, who were also charged jointly with others in the case, but were acquitted in the middle of the trial after being found with no case to answer. This is the case under which the former Commissioner of Customs of TRA, Tiagi Masamaki and four others, were also included in the matter before the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) entered “nole prosequi” certificate in their favour in terms of section 91 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). Other freed accused persons were Habibu Mponezya, the Manager Custom Service Centre, Bulton Mackleans Mponezya, the Manager Custom Control and Enforcement, Eliachi Mrema, who is in Charge of Azan Inland Container Deport (ICD) and Asharf Yusuf Khan, the Manager Azam ICD. The prosecution had told the court that on July 25, 2015, at Azam ICD in the city, with intent to defraud, Louis and Hassan forged several customs release orders, purportedly showing that they were issued by TRA, something which was not true. All accused persons, according to the prosecution, between July 11 and October 28, 2015, at Azam ICD, by their willful acts, aided the removal of the containers from the yard without payments of import tax, thus causing the government to suffer pecuniary loss of 12,618,970,229/-. Louis and Omary were each charged with one count of money laundering. The prosecution charges Louis that between July 11 and November 12, 2015 at CRDB Bank, Lumumba Branch, involved in transaction of money through transfer of 686,868,000/- to his account. The amount originated from another bank account operated by X L Clearing and Forwarding Limited at Amana Bank, Lumumba Branch. The accused person, the prosecution alleged, involved in the transaction while knowing such amount was proceed of a predicate offence. It is alleged by the prosecution that on October 2, 2015 at CRDB Bank, Azikiwe Branch, in Ilala District, Omary received a sum of 25m/- in his bank account from one Sapato Kyando, while knowing that the money represented proceeds of a predicate offence. Mpande was charged with an additional count of deleting some data from computer relating to 329 containers which were for shipment to Azam ICD, an offence which is alleged to have been committed between July 11 and October 28, 2015.