INDUSTRIOUS left winger Joseph Mahundi scored the important goal in the 80th minute enabling Azam FC to stride into the semifinals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), edging Kagera Sugar 1-0 at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Until half time there was no score recorded. Kagera Sugar started the quarter final encounter aggressively wasting two clear chances through Japhet Makarai and Edward Christopher but inept finishing was their main weakness. Azam counter attacked in the 9th minute, when Zambian striker, Obrey Chirwa and Zimbabwean Donald Ngoma combined well upfront only to find custodian Jeremiah Kisubi keen between the posts. Ramadhan Singano also had an open chance in the 37th minute, when he received a long pass from central defender, Aggrey Morris but his kick was punched by custodian Kisubi for an abortive corner. Mwita Gereza initiated a good move in the 43rd minute, sending a well calculated pass to Kagera Sugar’s right winger Venance Ludovick, who blasted the ball wide. On resumption, both sides played cautiously with Kagera Sugar concentrating in midfield, while Azam strikers sneaked near their goal in search of an opening goal. The best chance for Kagera Sugar came in the 68th minute, when second half substitute Cassim Hamza was heading towards Azam goal, when custodian Razak Abalora intercepted him using a crude tackle. Referee Shomari Lawi from Kigoma red carded Abalora, awarding an indirect kick to Kagera Sugar, which was wasted. Mwadini Ali was called in to replace Abalora. Diminutive attacker, Joseph Mahundi received a clean long pass from Aggrey Morris and outpaced Kagera Sugar defenders to plant the ball in the yawning net past custodian Kisubi, who dived helplessly in the 80th minute. Azam Assistant Coach, Idd Cheche, told reporters after the match that his side played well and deserved to win. “My boys are in high spirits and played according to instructions. We are determined to win the glittering Azam Sports Federation Cup. No team will stop us from realizing the dream,” boasted Cheche. Kagera Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime, on the other hand, conceded that Azam deserved to win. “My boys played determinedly. However, football is a game of chance. Azam got an open chance and utilized it to the maximum while my boys wasted about three open chances,” he said. Azam joined KMC and Lipuli in the semifinals waiting today’s outcome between Young Africans and Alliance FC at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza City.