FIVE High Court Judges yesterday retired officially from public service, sending a strong message and advice to in-service members of the bench, that they should be God-fearing, remain impartial, firm and respect the oath they took and dispense justice fairly and timely. They are Fredrica Mgaya, who was appointed Judge in September 2009, Rose Teemba, who became Judge on May 24, 2008, Crecencia Makuru, who was appointed Judge in May 2008, Salima Chikoyo, who became Judge on July 25, 2015 and Aisha Nyerere, a daughter-in-law of Mwalimu Nyerere. Speaking at the professional career and bidding farewell proceedings administered by Principal Judge, Dr Eliezer Feleshi, in Dar es Salaam, Judge Mgaya urged the remaining judges to believe in fair and timely justice. "Fair and timely justice should continue being your motto. Cases should not drag on for years, while they grow old and die or settle out of court due to frustration. Timely disposal of cases is essential for maintaining the rule of law and providing access to justice, which is a fundamental right to all," she said. For her part, Judge Teemba pointed out that life had ups and downs, as her life in public service wasn't completely free from frustrations. She recalled when she was about to tender a resignation letter because of a disagreement between her and her boss over a certain legal opinion she had given. "I stood firm to my opinion although the boss who was a politician did not like it. My point here is as judicial officers we must be firm to our decisions and respect the oath we took. I urge you to be firm on your work and people will always respect you," the Judge advised. Judge Makuru was also not short of words, especially for women judges, when she was welcomed to give her bidding farewell speech. She said, "In life if you want to be successful have faith in yourself. As a woman, I urge my fellow female lawyers to have faith in themselves. The judge also appealed to individual members of the bench and the judiciary as a whole to maintain impartiality and be independent of all external pressure so that those who appear before them and the public could have confidence that cases will be decided fairly and in accordance with the law. Judge Chikoyo encouraged the remaining judges to continue standing up professionally for the growth of their career and that of society. "In the purse of justice, the Judiciary stands to be building string pillars among many other pillars. The quest for that should always be of God-fearing and understating the context in which circumstances prevail. This is one among the credits the High Court has always been known for," she said. Speaking on behalf of the Judiciary, Judge Joaquine de Mello said their ladyships became judges of the High Court through hard working and commitment, good character and reputable knowledge complemented by justice, prudence, competence and fairness. "When sworn in as Judges, the ladyships took the oath to administer justice to all people and maintain the principles of good governance with impartial and fair administration of justice, without fear, favour, affection or ill-will," she said. The judge further pointed out that throughout the tenure of office, the ladyships have always been held up high as women of integrity, caring and instructive for their legal knowledge, wisdom and their ability to exercise commonsense. "They discharged their duties in high regard in deep admiration, abounding affection and respect from the members of the bar and legal fraternity at large. Their commitment to the rule of law, access to justice and protection of civil liberty has maintained their concern for people's interaction with the law," she said. President of the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS), Ms Fatma Karume, pointed out that the legal profession in the country had benefited because of their ladyships' presence in the bench and had encouraged thousands of women, who had never met, to join the legal profession. "Your presence in chambers of our court buildings has ensured a diversity that is essential for the judiciary required to serve all members of our society. You have also ensured that the female voice is heard through the judgments you have written and taken seriously," she said.