SOME Mwanga District residents in Kilimanjaro Region, including health stakeholders, have appealed to relevant government authorities to look into the possibility of establishing a cancer testing centre in Mwanga. The people raised their concerns during the eighth Preva Camp meant to provide cancer checking and consultancy which was conducted by KCMC health experts over the weekend, at the Neema Health Centre, within Mwanga town. One of the nurses at the centre, which is owned and operated by the Catholic Church, Sr Prisca Silayo, said they had been receiving people who wished to be tested for cancer, only to find that the services were not available. “Most of them are women who, after receiving information through various sources, come to check so as to know their status and how to deal with cancer issues, only to find out that the services are not available here,” she said. She said such services were available only at the Kisangara Health Centre and at the Usangi District Hospital, which she said were very far from Mwanga town centre, where the demand for cancer testing was high. “Most of those who are told that the services are found in Kisangara health centre and Usangi hospital alone, give up and decide to return home because the areas are very far as far as they are concerned,” she said, adding: “It is obvious that if a person with cancer symptoms returns home, he or she would eventually become a cancer patient. “ One of the beneficiaries of the PrevaCamp which was held in Mwanga District, Mr Hassan Mmbaga, congratulated the KCMC Zonal Super Referral hospital for establishing the camp which he said by being closer to people, it would help save the lives of many people. “I am one of the beneficiaries of this camp today. I got services which I couldn’t expect to get in my life, and free of charge at that; in addition, I have been referred to the KCMC hospital which I used to think was meant for only wealthy people; for me, this is a dream,” he said. The Doctor in Charge of the Neema Health Centre, Sr Avelina Kimaryo, commended the KCMC hospital leadership and the PrevaCamp committee, for the camp services which she said would help save the lives of many people, especially women. “I am advising the people to use the opportunities provided by the KCMC through the PrevaCamp camps to check their health status so as to avoid diseases which could be treated when diagnosed in their early stages,” she said, adding: “This camp should not be the end of people checking their health status but instead it should be an eye opener and educative opening which would enable them create the habit of checking their health status regularly”.