ZANZIBAR and South Africa are partnering to collaboratively work in the tourism sector to boost each other’s economies. That was revealed by the Zanzibar Minister for Information, Tourism and Antiquities, Mahmoud Thabit Kombo, while hosting South African High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Thami Mseleku, who paid him a courtesy call at the Island yesterday. Mr Kombo further said that the collaboration would be possible if the two countries established a tourism forum that would be tasked with the development of the sector. According to the Minister, the forum should consist of governments’ institutions, citing them as ministries and private entities in the tourism sector. He named some of the private entities as the business community, industrialists, farmers and the Zanzibar Associations of Tourism Investors. The inauguration of the forum, which according to Mr Kombo, is the brainchild of Zanzibar President, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, who will allow the two countries share experiences, best practices, discuss and as well decide on best ways to improve the tourism sector for the best interests of both parties. He asked Mr Mseleku to persuade his country’s South African Airways to increase its direct flights to Zanzibar, in a move he said would increase the number of tourists visiting the Island and earn them foreign revenues. ‘’Currently the SA Airways flights lands in Zanzibar almost every day and last year we received 22,903 tourists from South Africa, we expect the number to go up this year. ‘’We also invite South African investors to come and invest in the tourism sector, there are so many investment opportunities in the tourism sector with the abundant attractions in our beautiful Islands,’’ he said, citing Pemba as one of the areas yet to be well covered by investors despite its abundant tourists attractions. On his side, the Envoy spoke highly of the long standing brotherhood and relationship between Tanzania and South, recalling the role played by the late Mwalimu Kambarage Nyerere towards their independence and other African countries.