TANZANIA, Kenya and Uganda have earned tickets to represent Zone Five in the Africa U-21 Beach Volleyball Championship. The continental level championship is scheduled to take place from April 3 to 8 this year in Algiers, Algeria. Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda earned tickets in the Zone Five Q ualification championship staged at Mbalamwezi Beach Hotel in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. National beach volleyball coach Shukuru Ally confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the Zone Five competition for the regional teams saw teams vying for the four slots into the African Nations Championship. The competition saw Tanzania and Kenya emerging girls and boys’ categories champions respectively. Tanzania girls’ team is formed by Jonia Jovin and Kuruthumu Jumanne, who are students of Makongo Secondary of Dar es Salaam. The team beat Victoria Namawejje and Naume Akareaut of Uganda by 2-0 set. Local boys Fred Masinga and Baraka Mabeyo also made Tanzania proud after they beat Ugandan team of Angiro Nespal and Okolotum Allan by 2-0 in their opening game, but could not beat champions Kenya to finish second. Uganda finished at the bottom. Ally said that the African Volleyball Confederation (CAVB) has confirmed that all three countries have qualified for continental level event. Ally was all but happy for his team to progress as Tanzania will be making maiden appearance at the event. “We were looking forward to it, it will be better to play as many teams possible to qualify, but this is another opportunity that we have to do justice,” Ally said, adding that it will be nice to compete among other African top teams; it is only where youths can learn more and get motivated to take game seriously.” He said that challenge they had against Kenya and Uganda will help them to amend some of weaknesses and get ready for the challenge ahead. Coach said beach volleyball is still new in the country and they are now working hard to develop it. “Young players are very good and fast learners, with more time in a camp and intensive training they can be even better by the time they arrive in Algiers,” he said.