JKT emerged basketball champions at the ongoing 2019 Armed Forces Games after defeating Ngome 72-59 points at the National Indoor Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Ngome failed to defend the title they won last year having surrendered it to the new champions who massively won all their three games prior to reaching the finale. JKT thumped Zanzibar 119-35 in their first assignment before demolishing Uhamiaji 141-31 and later won 90-74 against Magereza in their third match. Ngome also deservedly triumphed in their three matches defeating Polisi 107-41, Magereza 103-60 and Zanzibar 125-83 orderly. As anticipated, JKT versus Ngome was one of the most thrilling games in the competition, which saw both sides fielding well drilled players to win the honour but at the end, the former outclassed their opponents. JKT’s Baraka Sadiki emerged as the top scorer of the contest with 99 points plus five assists and five rebounds. He was also named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) for this year’s basketball event. On the other hand, Ngome’s Gilbert Batungi, who had 43 points, 12 assists and 36 rebounds, was voted the best defender. The third slot went to Magereza, who smashed Zanzibar 78-59 points in another entertaining match on the day. In women category of the same discipline, JKT were overall winners, followed by Magereza and Ngome, who snatched the third position. Faraja Maraki (Ngome) emerged the top scorer with 149 points, four assists and four rebounds on top of winning the Most Valuable Player (MVP). Her colleague Sarah Budodi (JKT) was selected best defender thanks to her 29 points, four assists and 23 rebounds. However, in handball, Ngome smashed JKT 18-16 goals to claim this year’s champions in men’s category. Khalifa Juma, Bonerge Frank, Ally Khamis, Jumanne Rajab and Kichero Rama were among the scorers for Ngome while Othman Abdal, Elias George, Juma Bilima, Ibrahim Juma and Justin Kusekwa were all on the target for JKT. The eventful Armed Forces Games are scheduled to climax this Friday at the Uhuru Stadium in the city.