INVESTMENT in nutrition has been identified as a key strategy to reduce the incidence of communicable diseases, maternal and infant mortality and morbidity as it increases immunity. Special Adviser on Mother and Child Nutrition at the World Food Programme (WFP), Princess Sarah Zeid of Jordan said this during a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday as part of her tour of the country to oversee WFP interventions. According to her, Tanzania is magnificently food rich, but nutritional poor with 34 per cent of children under the age of five suffering from chronic malnutrition stunting, which impacts on their physical and cognitive development. The condition reduces the number of years they are in school and its impacts are intergenerational. “Fifty per cent of women and girls suffer from anaemia whereby maternal anaemia is directly associated with maternal mortality by 20 per cent. “It is not surprising that maternal and new born deaths have significantly been reduced when there is such a high level of anaemia,” she noted. She pointed out that nutrition maximised the impact of all other activities if the focus was directed towards the first 1,000 days from conception to a child’s second birthday. If the focus is on nutrition and micronutrient, it will lessen the impacts of shock. “We have to do everything that we can to fortify the most vulnerable when shock occurs,” she noted. WFP Country Representative, Michael Dunford said a country could not at the same time be food secure, while it was nutritionally insecure for nutrition made up a key component of food security. “We have to focus on the nutrition component which is more than just the consumption of food. It should rather involve the consumption of nutritious food and good access to water and sanitation, knowledge and behavioural change. To overcome challenges related to nutrition, Mr Dunford said WFP came up with an intervention identified as ‘Boresha Lishe Project’, which was being implemented in Dodoma. The project is specifically implemented in Bahi and Chamwino and Ikungi and Singida Rural districts in Singida. He said the intervention aimed at improving access to and use of nutritious food by women and children through social behavioural change communication, diversification of food production and distribution of specialised nutrition. WFP Nutrition officer, Neema Shosho said the objective of the project was to improve food and nutrition security and reduce malnutrition in the country.