THE Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) responsible for Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled, Ms Jenista Mhagama, has urged NMB Bank Plc to continue driving change through increasing service capacity in the health and education sector. Speaking at an inauguration of a government owned health centre at Mirerani in Simanjiro District, Manyara Region, after receiving hospital equipment worth Sh. 10 million that NMB donated, Minister Mhagama said the bank as key stakeholders should continue enhancing capacity in health centres that serve the community at large. The minister received the equipment during the inauguration of the health facility on Friday. The health centre will specifically offer treatment and care to people infected and living with HIV in Mirerani gemstone mining town and its environs. She commended NMB Bank for the donation, saying it will strengthen health delivery services, especially the fight against HIV/Aids. Inaugurating the facility, minister Mhagama said Mirerani was one of the areas most affected by HIV/Aids due to tanzanite mining activities. This, she said, also extends to the neighbouring districts of Arumeru and Hai in Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions respectively, besides Simanjiro. Speaking after officially handing over the donation, NMB Bank officer, Filbert Mponzi, reiterated NMB’s commitment to support the government in improving health services delivery. “We appreciate what the government is doing in the health and education sectors, including improving medical services both in urban areas and villages as well as free education. This is commendable,” Mr Mponzi said, adding: “From the beginning of 2019 to date, we have donated over 400m/- towards various Community Social Responsibility and over the last seven years, one per cent of our profits is given back to support community development projects within the framework of corporate social responsibility, citing donation of desks and roofing materials for schools and beds and mattresses for hospitals.” According to him, the bank has donated three delivery beds, six ordinary beds and 70 bed sheets and heart observation equipment worth 10m/- to the Mirerani health centre.