TANZANIAN professional boxer Hassan Mwakinyo has vowed to continue flying high the country’s flag in other upcoming boxing competitions after a knock out win over the Argentinian boxer. He said this following his triumph over Argentinian boxer Sergio Gonzalez in a nonprofessional fight held in Nairobi, Kenya over the weekend. Mwakinyo downed his colleague in the fifth round of the tense fight to bring back smiles on many Tanzanians who wanted to see the best from him on the day. “Let me thank all Tanzanians wherever they are for showing trust in me and I dedicate my victory to them,” Mwakinyo said. He also lauded people who travelled all the way from different corners of the world for their tremendous support which he said necessitated him to win the bout. “Also, I want to appreciate the support I have received from the government of Tanzania and I believe that will extend the good gesture during my next fight to be held in Dar es Salaam shortly,” he said. Adding, the Tanga based fighter hailed his sponsors SportPesa for covering all expenses he went through preparation period. “To say the truth, without SportPesa I would not have reached this stage and with the timely support I get from them, I am sure that I will reach very far,” he said. The fight began at a low pace in the first and second round with minimal blow exchanges from the two fighters but things drastically changed in the third round as each of them gained momentum of the match. However, the Argentinean was able to defend himself well during the early staged of the third round something which made Mwakinyo to shift into the top gear of the competition. Just few minutes before the third round elapsed, Mwakinyo continuously fired blows to his opponent which rendered him (Gonzalez) helpless to the advantage of the Tanzanian. In the fourth round, Gonzalez came up rejuvenated using his powerful left hand firing blows towards the Tanzanian who remained steady on his feet. As people believed that the game would have been judged on points, Mwakinyo entered the fifth round with another bang and smashed down his opponent. Immediately after the triumph, Tanga residents who stormed at Kombezi Primary School ground to back up their loved brother exploded into big cheers at the end of the fifth round. It was Mwakinyo’s 15th win out of 17 professional bouts since 2015.