THE Tanzania’s digital agency, Smart Codes has been named in the Inspire Africa News among companies that are spearheading technology in Africa. Smart Codes Chief Executive Officer, Mr Edwin Bruno said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that since their launch four years ago, the company has continued to make significant strides filling the gap of the growing demand for digital content in Tanzania and Africa at large. “We are proud to bring Tanzania to the same plate with country’s leading in tech in Africa namely Nigeria, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Kenya, Botswana, South Africa and now Tanzania, where we are based,” he said. He added, “With M-paper and Smart lab championing Smart Codes innovation products among others, we remain passionate about the impact.” Inspire Africa News highlights the face of a rising Africa, featuring men and women organisations and firms who establish, innovate and drive the growth of the continent. Twice a month, Inspire Africa News delivers the uplifting stories of those major players who establish the continent’s development, each in their area of expertise. Hannane Ferdjani, the Africa news reporter said during the programme, “Africa is full of innovation, whether start-up or multi-national company. “Smart Codes has been part of that force, coming up with ideas and great solutions to trigger change that disrupts the ecosystem and simplify service markets.” According to Mr Bruno, Smart Codes wants to create value by opening up, growing and disrupting Africa’s services market which will certainly transform millions of lives on the continent. The M-paper platform features almost all the newspapers in Tanzania today and has championed as an archive for past newspaper issues, given access to current events for people living in the diasporas and continues to be the fastest and most convenient way to access digital newspapers issues on one dais. Other products like Primus and Kwanza are equally progressing and we look forward to introducing more to the public overtime. He pointed out that Smart Codes are elated to be part of the tech revolution in Africa and remain committed to developing tech and changing the innovation eco system within and beyond the Tanzanian boarders.