JUDGEMENT day, a day in which everyone is prepared for the worst or better, and how Brexit will affect British nationals, affect trade within EU states and spurring other trade partners will be on the table for historic day next week on March 29th. Many people in the UK including children at primary schools now have glimpse of about the UK leaving the EU. But how hard a hard Brexit is going to be for the British people themselves and rest of EU members is yet to be acknowledged. What is presently being acknowledged is the hyper that, Britain is leaving EU amidst those calling for second referendum to resolve the deadlock aspects that are giving Teresa may sleepless night as clock keep on running. With or without a deal mean a lot to both parties in 29th March 2019 historic scheduled divorce. Deprived of a departure accord, I am of the opinion that Britain would be set to be unable to find duty-free entrée to the world’s biggest transaction bloc on March 29th March 2019, returning to marketable guidelines converted back in 1995 by participants of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). In trading, this would mean tariffs for Britain exports to the European trading block which would act like a levy on goods in addition to traffic snarling customs controls at the border. No-deal situation, both for Britain and rest of EU would be like downshifting an automatic car at full speed from drive position to reverse position. Consequences of such change isn’t felt in the cabin but in the engine that might need an overhaul due to the damage caused. Can Britain benefit or loose from the 29th historic split-up, it can well be adjudicated by considering at lesson learnt in Brexit journey that when critically examined is tiring apart British strong parties to agree or to disagree on number of issues such as. How would Britain trade with its partiers within EU under WTO rules, what would happen to imports from the EU, how are British businesses, small and large are prepared, how could March 29th divorce mess up the British economy and so forth. I am not a British voter, but having lived and worked in the UK environment for more than ten years and as regular visitor, the stakes in the Brexit route couldn’t be higher now. Britain is facing the crucial political crisis for at least a couple of age group. To my assessment, the risks are both a democratic crisis and an economic one. From my last stay in the UK at the beginning of this year 2019 and having privileged to rub shoulder with old friends both from labour party and conservative party and Liberal Democrats, sometime discussing about Brexit and its outcome. I learnt that part of the problem the EU members have as Brexit gain thrust is that the public in EU member states, not just in the Britain, are of the opinion that too many concerns which are fundamental for the future of their nations to their own sense of their identity are being dealt with. Often unaccountable people, in a ways which they think confiscate their right to make real selections to change political and economic course. Considering on how Brexit will affect British nationals, trade in the EU (see Daily news 6th March 2019 pg.15), I am of the opinion that argument about nitty-gritty’s questions of economic and political bearing for Britain and rest of the EU, need to be attached in facts not imaginations. My appraisal of the Brexit divorcing course, as an outsider, is that entire set-up was hurtled since the referendum from a plethora of the latter, from a near total lack of ability to understand the interests, reasons and drives of the parties tangled in the negotiation and from what I think are highly idealistic assessment of the probable national options for both Britain and EU members ahead. There could be many teachings when examining what lies ahead after Brexit divorce scheduled officially to take place on 29th March 2019. To both parties’ break-up are economic issues that seem to have consequence to the UK and to the EU. Given that the East African Community is an economic bloc fashioned along similar beliefs like the EU economic bloc, looking to what is currently unfolding in the region between Uganda and Rwanda on one hand and between Rwanda and Burundi on the other, one need to contemplate whether such economic learning from Brexit could, therefore, potentially affect future of EAC commitment. Thus why I am of the view that for EAC, real honesty with the public is the best only policy if we are to get to the other side of working as a one bloc with a healthy democracy, a reasonably unified region and a strong economy bloc. For EAC what is unfolding within Brexit provide a good lesson to us. Scrutinizing Brexit’s debate, since the beginning of the divorcing journey, for the last 30 months or so, has grieved from cloudiness, delusion-mongering and mendacity on all sides. Despite Prime Minister’s Teresa May call for rivals of her suggestion deal to be honest and not simply with away intractable hitches like the backstop, which was always, and will remain, a central question in any resolution is which deal is good at this critical juncture? Whether Teresa May’s proposal deal is worthy or bad, debate will go on and on, but given Teresa May’s own understandings and inclinations, her desperately divided party and the negotiating realities with the other side of the table, I can at least comprehend that she is on pretty much the only landing zone she could ever credibly reach. No doubt, Brexit is an ambiances movie that will go to down to history accounts. What Britain need is a profoundly different technique and style if the country is to restore and fuse together behind some suggested destination. This in my view will entail leadership which is far more honest in setting out the vital choices among British people because more is still ahead after 29th March 2019 withdraw deadline.