THE dispute on administration of estates of Arushabased prominent mineral dealer, Jubilate Ulomi, who died at Aga Khan Nairobi Hospital in January, 2019 took a new turn yesterday after his relatives opposed a move taken by the wife of the deceased, Zainabu Rashid. Zainabu has filed an application before the High Court at Moshi Registry, seeking orders to set aside the order for temporarily granting authority to businessman Werandumi Benjamin Ulomi to administer the estate of his deceased brother. The Advocate for Ulomi’s family, Engineer Joseph Ngiloi from Makoa Attorneys has, however, filed four grounds objections, seeking orders to have the application by Zainabu rejected for a number of reasons, including the same is incurably defective for being wrongly titled. He stated that the application is bad in law and incompetent before the court for being brought under wrong citation of the enabling law, the application is misconceived for being premature and that the affidavit is incurably defective, bad in law and incompetent for being wrongly attested. Last month, Judge Patricia Fikirini granted an application for letters of administration presented by the advocate ahead of finalization of Probate and Administration Cause to be determined later. She pointed out that having carefully studied the records in the application as well as the Probate and Administration Cause still pending, the application filed under section 38 and 39 of the Probate and Administration of Estates Act complied with requirements under Rule 14 (1), 50 and 51 (1) of the Rules. The judge said that the probate and administration application was yet to be granted and the chance that it would be granted in the near future was farfetched. To leave the deceased’s businesses unattended, she said, might lead to unnecessary waste or damage to the properties involved. Likewise, the judge further said there was a possibility of suffering to be caused especially to the children who need maintenance, staff who should be paid to maintain their families, as well as business undertakings to be managed, if a temporary administrator is not appointed. “Allowing such state of affair to go on without a proper overseer will not only be unfair and unjust, bust equally irresponsible. In light of the above, I find the application by the applicant, Werandumi Benjamin Ulomi deserves granting and hereby proceed to grant the application as prayed,” the judge ruled. Narrating on the late Jubilate’s demise, Engineer Ngiloi told the court that the deceased had been sick since July 2018 and initially admitted at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC), Moshi before being airlifted to Aga Khan University Hospital where he later succumbed to his illness on January 15, 2019. He explained that the deceased body was brought back on January 16, 2019 and laid to rest on February 2, 2019. The advocate further submitted that the deceased has an ongoing mining business at Mirerani which has several employees and he also left behind three children who are in school and need care. Therefore, he submitted, the application before the court was to request the deceased young brother with whom they had been working together in the mines located at Bloc D, Mirerani, each owning a primary licence, to be allowed and undertake operations of the businesses thereat. He said that the proceeds of the mining business should be banked at CRDB Bank, Arusha Branch in the name of Jubilate Benjamin Ulomi and through a clan meeting; the applicant and Makoa Attorneys were appointed to monitor all transactions undertaken, staff reimbursement and children maintenance.