THE Confederation of African Football (CAF) picked Gabonese officials to handle the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) 2019 Group L qualifier between Taifa Stars and Uganda Cranes in Dar es Salaam. Taifa Stars will face Uganda Cranes in their final group L encounter on March 24th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Eric Otogo Castane from Gabon is the centre referee for the encounter. Castane, 44, was also the referee in charge of Uganda’s goalless draw with Tanzania at the Mandela Namboole Stadium in Kampala on September 8th last year. He will be assisted by country-mates Moussounda Montel and Marlaise Ditsoga as the first and second assistant referees respectively. Gabonese referee Isidore Nze is the fourth official as Sudanese Mamoun Bushara is the match commissioner. Referees Assessor will be Jason Damoo from Seychelles and David Van Vuuren from South Africa is the Security Officer: After collecting 13 points from five games, Uganda Cranes has already qualified for the AFCON 2019 tournament that will be played in June, in Egypt. There are other 13 countries already confirmed. Taifa Stars, who placed second in the group on five points, has a chance to qualify as well, should they win this match with prayers that Lesotho also on five points fails to win away at bottom placed Cape Verde on four points. Taifa Stars, Nigerian tactician Emmanuel Amunike is expected to unveil his team’s programme this week ahead of the Uganda Cranes clash. The former Super Eagles' and Barcelona forward, Amunike was in Arusha with the national Under-17 side, Serengeti Boys and is reportedly back in Dar es Salaam ready to unveil his programme for Stars. This will be a do or die game for Stars as they need to win the game to book their ticket for this year’s AFCON finals to be host in Egypt. Stars could have avoided this tense situation if they had won their penultimate round against Lesotho in Maseru in the day when Uganda beat Cape Verde. Stars lost 1-0 to Lesotho and put themselves in a difficult situation that now forces them to beat Uganda at any cost. The remaining ticket for group L is open to any of the three; Tanzania, Lesotho and Cape Verde depending on their last group matches’ results. Mathematically, Cape Verde also has a chance of progressing to finals if they beat Lesotho and pray that Uganda to beat or even draw with Tanzania in Dar es Salaam. Good news for Taifa Stars is that Cranes dependable goalkeeper, who features for South Africans topflight league side Mamelodi Sundowns, Denis Onyango, is in doubt of being part of the squad to face Amunike charges due to hamstring injury. Doctors indicate that the Cranes number one shot stopper Onyango’s injury could take more than 60 days to fully heal, ruling him out of next month’s AFCON 2019 qualifier against Taifa Stars in Dar es Salaam. Should Onyango fail to recover well in time, then the doors will be wide open to Jamal Salim (Al Hilal, Sudan), Robert Odongkara (Adama City, Ethiopia), Charles Lukwago (KCCA, Uganda), Benjamin Ochan (Kabwe Warriors, Zambia) and Isma Watenga (Ethiopia Coffee, Uganda) to vie for the number one slot.