EXPANSION of Dar es Salaam Port under the Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DMGP) has reached 50 per cent, it has been learnt. The project is aimed at improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the port for the benefit of public and private stakeholders. It involves two components, including improving the physical infrastructure and institutional strengthening and implementation assistance. Project Manager Anastazia Seledi explained that the project was half way of its implementation in the wake of a good job done by the contractors. It is constructed by the Chinese Harbour Engineering Company (CHEC). The project is being financed in part by the World Bank, which has provided roughly $350m in loans and grants, while the bulk of the remainder – approximately $70m – is being provided by the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA). The UK’s Department for International Development has also put forward grant assistance. The Port of Dar es Salaam has seen rising traffic over the past five years between 2011 and 2016. The pressure of the increased traffic put on the port’s infrastructure and intermodal connections is particularly notable, given that it currently handles roughly 95 per cent of Tanzania’s external trade. Dar es Salaam’s capacity far outstrips that of the country’s next two largest ports, Tanga and Mtwara, which combined handle around 1m tonnes of traffic annually. In order to improve the Port of Dar es Salaam’s operational efficiency, donor-funded trade initiative Trademark East Africa is providing the TPA with technical support in the rehabilitation of access roads to help reduce traffic congestion. Ms Seledi said the project is expected to end in 2020, with currently the construction works being in first phase. The first phase involves deepening of berth number one to seven to enable large vessels to dock as opposed to the current situation. She was speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam when briefing students of Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT). The students, who are members of the CCM's Youth Wing at the Institute,  were on a study tour to learn how the port operates and implementation of the project. Their chairman, Mr Machage Mwema, commended the port and explained that the visit would help them get knowledge on the country's major gateway.