TANZANIA has once again emerged the most peaceful nation in East Africa and ninth on continental ranking, according to the Global Peace Index (GPI) 2018 Report The report released by an international think-tank, Institute for Economic and Peace (IEP) this month puts the country among nations with the highest state of peace and tranquility in the world. Tanzania ranks 51st among the most peaceful nations on earth and the ninth most peaceful in Africa, according to the annual global ranking, which ranks 163 independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness. The ranking is based on 23 indicators grouped into three criteria: societal safety and security, extent of ongoing domestic and international conflict and degree of militarisation. According to the report, in East Africa, there seems to be a little sign of an end to the four-year old civil war in South Sudan and the emergence of a new faction in the country under President Salva Kiir’s former military chief Paul Malong. is likely to prolong the breakdown in peacefulness of the world’s youngest country. Known as the land of Kilimanjaro, Tanzania has climbed up by three places in the index, amassing 1.837 points far better than the United States of America, which is revered as the land of the free and the home of the braves. The United States has dropped seven spots to 121, well behind Cuba 81 and China 114 and a little too close to the least peaceful country in the world, Syria 163. IEP reveals that despite living in the most peaceful century in human history, the world has become less peaceful over the last decade. The report covers 163 independent states and territories home to 99.7 per cent of the world’s population. Burundi had the fourth largest overall improvement in peacefulness, rising five places in the rankings from 139th to 134th. It improved on the militarisation, safety and security domains. However, it did see a versmall deterioration in ongoing conflict. Despite these improvements, there was an increase in the number of refugees and IDPs as percentage of the population from 3.9 to 4.7 per cent. Burundi remains one of the 10 least peaceful countries in sub-Saharan Africa, with 2018 being the first time since 2014 that it improved in GPI. Iceland remains the most peaceful country in the world, a position it has held since 2008. New Zealand, Austria, Portugal and Denmark also sit in the top five most peaceful rankings. Syria remains the least peaceful country in the world, a position it has held for the past five years. Afghanistan, South Sudan, Iraq and Somalia comprise the remaining least peaceful countries. As Tanzania tops the EAC, Uganda is ranked at 107, Rwanda 103, Kenya 123 and Burundi is ranked 134 out of 163 nations analysed. African countries in the top 10 peaceful nations are Botswana at 29 position, Sierra Leone (35) position, Ghana (41), Malawi (44), Namibia (43), Zambia (48), Senegal (52), The Gambia (76), Tunisia (78), Burkina Faso (80) and Angola (83). Global peace has declined by 0.27 per cent in the last year, the fourth consecutive annual drop, making the world less peaceful today than at any time in the last decade. In the meantime, the number of refugees has rocketed to one per cent of the global population, the highest level in modern history. IEP is an independent, non-partisan, non-profit thinktank dedicated to shifting the world’s focus to peace as a positive, achievable and tangible measure of human wellbeing and progress. It’s headquartered in Sydney, with offices in New York, The Hague, Mexico City, Brussels and Harare. It works with a wide range of partners internationally and collaborates with intergovernmental organisations on measuring and communicating the economic value of peace