NATIONAL Under-17 football team, Serengeti Boys will be seeking for their first victory today, when they face Australia at the UEFA Assist U-17 International tournament in Antalya, Turkey. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, said yesterday that the team underwent light training session at the Tennis court and later some road works. He said today’s match will kick off at 3.30 pm at Emri Complex. Serengeti Boys launched their campaign at the tournament on a back foot, after a 1-0 loss to Guinea in their debut match on Monday. Guinea’s Conte Aboubacar scored the only goal of the match in the 26th minute, which survived until the end of normal period of play. The game, however, lacked intensity since it was played on the waterlogged pitch, thereby denying the talented young players to showcase their hidden potentials as far as football is concerned. UEFA Assist tournament has no champion as it is arranged to promote youth football and help to identify key talents from the young players. In view of this, all teams will play three matches before returning to their respective countries. Both Serengeti Boys and Guinea are using the tournament as part and parcel of their preparations for the approaching Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations slated to take off in the country from April 14th to 28th this year. Renovation works on the venues where the competition will be held are at advanced stage leaving no stone unturned. The government revealed that three stadiums which are the National Stadium, Uhuru Stadium and Azam Complex will host the competition. Serengeti Boys are packed in group A, probably the most difficult category together with Nigeria, Uganda and Angola, whereas Guinea are in group B, which consists of Cameroon, Morocco and Senegal. This will be the second time for Serengeti Boys to compete in the junior football event in the continent after parading in the similar competition which was held in Gabon in 2017. Meanwhile, another East African side, Uganda Cubs suffered a 4-1 defeat at the hands of Cameroon in the UEFA Assist tournament yesterday. Uganda took the lead through Mugisha Rogers but Cameroon levelled the matters through Amba Leonel. They scored three more goals in the second half through Leonel, Mvoue Steve and Alioum Seido.