PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein on Monday swore in four ministers and one deputy minister following a minor cabinet restructuring and reshuffle, which saw Finance and Planning Minister, Dr Khalid Mohamed being axed. Those sworn-in include new Finance and Planning Minister, Ambassador Mohamed Ramia Abdiwawa and Minister of State, President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Mr Haroun Ali Suleiman. Others were Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Mr Khamis Juma Mwalimu and Minister for Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Mmanga Mjengo Mjawiri. Also sworn in was the new Deputy Minister for Education and Vocational Training, Mr Simai Mohammed Said. Two appointed principal secretaries and four deputy principal secretaries also took oath at a ceremony held at the Zanzibar State House. They were Mr Yakout Hassan Yakuti - Principal Secretary in the Ministry of State, President’s Office, Public Administration and Good Governance, Mr George Joseph Kazi - new Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Mr Seif Shaaban Mwinyi - Deputy Principal Secretary in the Ministry of State, President’s Office Public Service Management and Good Governance. The list also included Ms Mansura Mossi Kassim- Deputy principal Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, (dealing with agriculture), and Deputy Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries, (dealing with livestock and fisheries), and Deputy Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Lands, Housing, Water and Energy. President Shein urged the newly appointed leaders at the swearing-in ceremony to commit to transforming the Indian Ocean semi-autonomous archipelago and lives of its citizens. Former Finance and Planning Minister Dr Khalid Mohammed was one of those affected by President Shein’s minor cabinet reshuffle on Sunday. The President also dropped Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries Minister Rashid Ali Juma, who will be assigned other duties. A cabinet reshuffle had been anticipated after President Shein recently appointed former senior cabinet minister and diplomat, Ambassador Abdiwawa as Member of the House of Representatives via Presidential seats. The reshuffle also came after President Shein opted to divide the previous ministry of Constitutional, Legal Affairs, Public Service Management and Good Governance into two ministries.