A BRACE from skipper John Bocco ensured Simba maximum three points and k ept them alive in the race to defend the Mainland P remier League title after a deserved 2-0 win over Stand United at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga yesterday. The victory, however, saw Simba remain third on the league table with 51 points from 20 games, only two points behind second placed Azam who have 53 points from 26 fixtures. It was Simba’s seventh back to back victory in the unfolding league which has enabled them to be a real threat to leaders Young Africans, who top the log with 64 points from 26 outings. The game started on acceleration pedal with Stand United enjoying lion’s share in terms of ball possession during the first twenty minutes of the match but they were not lethal at Simba goal which was well protected by Pascal Wawa and Paul Bukaba. This forced the visitors to opt for aerial balls targeting towering skipper Bocco, who partnered with Adam Salamba before the latter was substituted in the few minutes before the breather after picking a knock. Salamba was replaced by Simba’s current top goal scorer Meddie Kagere, whose introduction activated Simba’s front line. However, it was the visitors who had a couple of goal scoring chances in the early exchanges which saw Nicholas Gyan stung the goalkeeper, Mohamed Makata’s hands with a fierce shot in the 14th minute as Simba fans inside the packed stadium were already off their seats to celebrate. Few minutes later, creative midfielder, Haruna Niyonzima set up Rashid Juma but the youthful attacker was blocked by keeper. Both Salamba and Bocco had chances to put their side upfront in the first half but their trials were not fruitful. Bocco scored twice in the second half of the match through a spot kick in the 50th minute, which was awarded following a handball by a Stand United defender. The skipper stepped in and fired to the far-right corner despite Stand United shot stopper Mohamed Makata diving to the right direction. The second goal came from a tight angle as Bocco easily connected a low-flying shot from his defender Nicholas Gyan, which caught Makata flat footed at his goal as his defenders were momentarily disorganised. Leading by two goals to nothing, it was really difficult for the hosts to make the remarkable comeback as Simba continued to deploy more men upfront hoping to source the third goal. Simba’s Patrick Aussems made his second substitution in the 58 th minute, calling to bench Rashid Juma for industrious midfielder Jonas Mkude, whose entry cemented the midfield dominance by the Reds thereby able to launch more forays towards the host territory. The slump has seen Stand United remain 14th at the league standings with 33 points from 29 matches, which is safe for them as far as relegation is concerned. Prior to the match, Stand United Head Coach Athumani Bilal expressed determination that his charges were perfectly drilled to derail Simba the same way they did to Yanga. “We have had ample training sessions ahead of this game and we will win at all cost,” Bilal said. Elsewhere yesterday, Singida United defeated Tanzania Prisons 2-1 at Namfua Stadium in Singida, while Mtibwa Sugar thumped Lipuli FC 2-0 at Manungu Stadium in Turiani, Morogoro. At the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, hosts Mbeya City were held to a barren draw by Mtwara’s Ndanda FC.