LAST Saturday at Karimjee Hall, the Head of State, President John Pombe Joseph Magufuli led mourners to pay their last respects to Ruge Mutahaba, a young Tanzanian legend. These mourners were saying goodbye to a person who had a natural nobility, someone classless, who, in my view, stood tall enough as a human being with unique qualities, even though not necessarily a saint, holy and virtuous. I think I am right to suggest that although he was a sinner like anybody else in this world, yet as Lil Yachty once suggested, you look more like a legend when you accomplish a lot at a young age. Ruge, as a young man represented this wise saying. Ruge’s story did not end in Dar es Salaam. In fact at his home in Bukoba, people were in tears clearly and evidently remembering Ruge with love for his compassion and humanity. And the Wahaya of Kiziru, in their cultural way of mourning and grieving, boldly cried out saying he will truly and dearly be missed. For them Ruge shall remain, simply irreplaceable. Well, the death of Ruge, one of the few youngest Tanzanian heroes of his time, shall remain in people’s minds for a long time to come. This I say not only because his departure has shocked Tanzania, Africa and the world, but because of the remarkable legacy he left behind for this nation to cherish. I was not lucky to meet Ruge, however from his eloquent speeches and people’s observation, it is clear that he has been taken from us all so young and too early. But let me encourage all of us that we must learn to be grateful that Ruge came along. Ruge is gone but he has left us with a unique gift, a gift well understood in the context of his intuition and understanding on many things. But uniquely important, and for the sake of this article, I pick Ruge’s cry for the plight of young people in Tanzania and beyond, among other great things, as something significant and imperative. For me, Ruge’s legacy will always be remembered from his unwavering desire to generate a particular brand of magic based on Tanzanian youth and their dignity. This is the gift I am talking about. His honest desire to do good for young people, his exemplary commitment, creativity, and a significant contribution as he spoke for young people stood out. There is no question about this proposal because he ensured that his youth dignity agenda is understood, used wisely and well implemented. Let us thank God for Ruge’s instinctive feel and analysis for what was really important in the lives of our young generation. Remarkably, Ruge challenged young people to discover opportunities which could help them restore their dignity. For him peace was important. So any crime that is linked to young people and posing a serious threat to the freedom and dignity of Tanzanians was unacceptable. In a number of his recent inspirational speeches, he said to young people that drugs, violent crime and gangster life which at some point wreaked havoc in our communities was not a way to prosperity. The gift Ruge left to this nation is his concern and constant call for young people and our leaders to work together to address the issue of unemployment which remains high, particularly among the youth. For Ruge, he wanted to see young people’s capacity built so that they can acquire transformative leadership in all fields, be it political, economic, cultural and academic, both at national and local levels. He simply wanted to see the youth play an important role as drivers of change in this country. And I think Ruge was absolutely right, because no society can reach its full potential unless it removes all obstacles to young people, men and women that hinder their full participation in all areas of human endeavours. No wonder almost everyone who spoke at Karimjee Hall and at Kiziru insisted that Ruge’s agenda should not end with his death, but should be carried forward to inspire all of us as a nation to do all we can to continue the imaginative way in which he always steered Tanzanian leaders to empower youth. I wish to propose that the best way to remember Ruge should be for the nation to provide an enabling environment for its young people to flourish and reach their full prospects. But how can this be achieved? Ruge had an answer. He did not only emphasise on doing good for young people, but advised on how best we, as a nation, could go about doing it. I recall his famous speech at the University of Dodoma, where he persuasively advised on the need for the government to add efforts to eliminate all forms of systemic inequalities, exploitation, marginalisation and discrimination of young people by ensuring that youth issues are mainstreamed in all national development agendas. Well, much can be said about Ruge. Sadly he is no more. He has gone to be with his creator. But what is certain for me is that all our national efforts to achieve self-actualisation and fulfilment within the context of a larger community of wananchi, and JPM’s resolve to address issues that hinder human uniqueness, dignity, diversity, freedom, happiness, and holistic wellbeing, should be pictured in Ruge’s gift to our nation. His youth dignity agenda shall remain a fitting gift to our nation. Our responsibility is to ensure that we cherish his multi-talents. We shall best do so if we remain focused in our steadfastness to guarantee our young people full access to education, training, skills and technology, health services, jobs and economic opportunities, recreational and cultural activities as well as financial means and all necessary resources to allow them to realise their full potential. Let us create an environment which will make young Tanzanian men and women become path breakers of the 21st century Tanzanian society. Let us enable and resource them so that they can contribute significantly to innovation and entrepreneurship, not only in Dar es Salaam, but in all regions of Tanzania where Ruge travelled and spoke of his agenda. I want to believe that Ruge would wish to see young Tanzanians, through their creativity, energy and innovation become the driving force behind our country’s and indeed the continent’s political, social, cultural and economic transformation. Let’s hope this happens soon, even though Ruge shall not be here to see and witness his spectacular vision come to fruition. Goodbye Ruge. Do rest in peace. Cheers!