PRESIDENT John Magufuli has directed Tanzania’s new ambassador to Cuba, Valentino Mlowola, to spearhead investments in agriculture, health and education upon reporting to his new work station. He issued the directive at an event to receive an implementation report of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) which was preceded by the swearing-in of the former anticorruption czar. The President observed that Cuba was well versed in a number of sectors, including agriculture, health and education. “The country has established itself well in sugarcane plantations; therefore they can assist us in the area,” he said. As such, he pointed out, Tanzania could make good use of its friendship with Cuba to persuade its people to come and establish sugar factories in the country, given the gap in the sector.The President noted that the country had been importing sugar from outside and at times the imported consignments were not fit for human consumption. In the health sector, Cuba was immensely advanced. “We anticipate that your representation as the first Ambassador to Cuba will benefit the country from the longstanding relationship,” said the President. He pointed out that there had been a delay in opening an embassy in Cuba though the two countries had been longtime friends. The President noted that on different occasions, Cuban leaders, including their Vice President, Mr Salvador Valdes Mesa, visited Tanzania and among their major appeals was appointment of a representative to the country. “Since the tenure of the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Cuba has had a representative in the country; but we, on the other hand, have been establishing embassies in other countries but have forgotten about our good friends. “This is why I said we should open up an embassy in Cuba and appoint a person who will workand represent the country well,” he remarked. He called upon the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation to further strengthen proper utilisation of resources, citing an example of some foreign embassies in the country operating with a minimum staff of six people but still demonstrated outstanding performance. The President said it was not a bad idea for Tanzania to adopt a system whereby an ambassador and his wife worked in the same station. He asked the sector ministry to consider adopting the system, under which if an ambassador’s wife is a government employee, she can be transferred to the embassy. “There is no reason for the wife of an ambassador to become a housewife while she possesses necessary qualifications. “Why look for, and post another person there while the position can be filled by the ambassador’s wife? If we have demonstrated confidence in the ambassador, why not her?” noted the President. He further called upon the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, to regularly remind the ambassadors to perform their responsibilities as the country representatives. President Magufuli hinted on a plan to fill vacant positions in embassies occasioned by retirements.