PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday urged creditworthy Tanzanians to take loans from the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank(TADB) to revolutionalise agriculture and the country’s agro-processing industry. Inaugurating the TADB Lake Zonal Office, the Premier reminded members of the public that domestic industries heavily depended on agricultural produce as their source of raw materials. “Therefore, it is necessary that eligible farmers take TADB loans to boost their farming activities and feed industries with quality raw materials,” he noted. The zonal office will serve as a cluster bureau for Kagera, Shinyanga, Geita, Mara and Simiyu regions and Mwanza City. “You appreciate the links existing in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and industries. I implore you to take loans from TADB to boost production because they are important for guaranteeing national food security. Do not be afraid of taking loans,” he appealed. The agricultural sector, the PM said, offered over 60 per cent of employment opportunities to Tanzanians and contributed not less than 80 per cent of exports, besides contributing 60 per cent of raw materials to local industries. At the same time, Mr Majaliwa called upon TADB to work closely with prospective borrowers, saying: “I continue appealing to TADB to work closely with stakeholders to address emerging challenges so that we realise our dreams of making Tanzania a middleincome and industrial economy.” Deputy Agriculture Minister, Innocent Bashungwa said by last month TADB had loaned 100bn/- to advance the objectives of the Agricultural Sector Development Programme Phase II. “We are grateful to TADB for making farmers able to access capital, tractors and other tools and help them also establish agro-processing plants,” he added. For his part, TADB Board Chairman, Rosebud Kurwijila said the bank had opted to initiate a cluster and value chain financing approach to reach many parts of the country and offer speedy services. She noted that the approach would help the bank establish strategic agricultural parks to be banked on in establishing planned agro-industries and use dominant crops in clusters. Commenting on this, TADB Managing Director, Japhet Justine said the financial institution’s capital had risen from 60bn/- to 68bn/- since 2015 with support from the government. He said as of February 28, 2019 the bank had issued 100.7bn/- in form of strategic loans and 67.5bn/- issued in eight months alone, up from 33.2bn/- that had been issued to borrowers by June 31, 2018. “As of February 28, this year, we had served 837,578 farmers and issued loans to promote 84 agricultural projects,” he reported.