ALGERIAN debutants JS Saoura gave their quarter final quest a huge lift after a 2-0 win over Simba in their Group D clash on Saturday in Bechar. Sid Yahia Cherif and Mohamed Amine Hammia scored in either half to power Saoura to the summit of the group ahead of next weekend’s ultimate matches. The win saw the Algerians leapfrog Egyptian giants Al Ahly to the top with eight points. Ahly and DR Congo’s AS Vita follow on seven points apiece with Simba at the bottom on six points. This means that all four teams stand a chance of reaching the last eight, meant for the top two finishers. Founded in 2008, Soaura meaning ‘revolution’ are making a name for themselves on their maiden attempt in the premier continental club competition. Playing in the fifth tier of Algerian football ten years ago has counted for little in the journey which has seen a turnaround after their 3-0 loss to Simba in the opening match at the group stage. On Saturday, they found it tough against Simba, also at the group stage for the first time in 16 years. However, the deadlock was broken after 24 minutes when Cherif blasted home from close range after the Simba backline had failed to clear their lines . Five minutes from recess, Saoura doubled the lead courtesy Hammia from the spot. Simba defender Serge Wawa fouled Ibrahim Farhi in the vital for a penalty which Hammia made no mistake, sending Aishi Manula the wrong way. Simba fought back but failed to land a consolation as Saoura claimed their second win at this stage. Saoura travel to Alexandria next weekend to face Ahly whilst Simba host AS Vita in Dar es Salaam. In Kinshasa, AS Vita Club waited until the final minutes to score the precious goal of their 1-0 win over Al Ahly. The Black Dolphins can thank Tuisila Kisinda, who scored a floating shot to deceive the Egyptian goalkeeper. This goal was rewarded by the Congolese team’s incessant attacks, which fired 27 shots to the goal in this match. This precious success allows the Congolese to join Al Ahly with 7 points. Florent Ibenge’s side now has their fate in their hands and will have to beat Simba in Tanzania on the final day. The Egyptians saw a direct opponent come back to them in the qualifying round and will have to beat Jeunesse Sportive Saoura in the final match. Simba failed to take advantage of Egypt’s misstep when they travelled to Algeria. Worse still, Simba lost 2-0 on the JSS pitch. Incredible scenario in this Group D where all teams can still qualify. The Algerians, who now lead the group with 8 points, will not be able to simply manage when they travel to Cairo. Last with 6 points, the Tanzanian club has to win against AS Vita Club to continue the race.