AFRICAN countries should make joint and concerted efforts to address a myriad of challenges facing the continent, Zanzibar’s second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Idd said on Monday. Ambassador Idd made the remarks while meeting some section of African Ambassadors to Cuba, in the country’s capital Havana on Monday. He further stressed on a strong economic collaboration and cooperation among African countries, recalling that Africans share a common historical background, socially, economically, politically and culturally. The veteran diplomat said it was high a time, the continent’s citizens changed their mindset and advocated for self-reliance to avoid perpetuation of dependency on foreign aids, that were being released with conditions, some of which go against the African culture and traditions. He said as African countries continue to cement closer economic cooperation and integrations through their various blocs, the envoys should play the role of opening and integrating the continent to global economy. ‘’You must focus on economic diplomacy through persuasion and wooing of potential investors to come and invest into our countries,’’ he pointed out. Equally, he underscored the need for closer cooperation amongst African envoys, hinting that would steer them towards achieving common goals. “I remember when serving as a diplomat in Egypt, we used to have our institute named Afro Asian Diplomatic Union... it helped put us together as we pursued our common goals,” said the Isles second Vice-President. Africa boasts of abundant and precious natural resources, which could propel the continent’s economies, added Ambassador Idd, while urging the diplomats to market African resources abroad. Speaking earlier, head of the African diplomats to Cuba, Jean Claude Moussounda expressed hopes that Ambassador Idd’s tour to the country for the agricultural exhibitions would strengthen the existing ties between African nations and the North American country. Giving a note of thanks, Kenyan envoy, Anthony Muchiri lauded the United Republic of Tanzania under the leadership of President, Dr John Pombe Magufuli, for the exemplary socioeconomic transformations taking place in the country. He said the rest of Africa was impressed with Tanzania’s initiatives to develop her infrastructures, fight corruptions and protection of her natural resources and wealth