THE government has intensified efforts to combat Tuberculosis (TB) in the country by adopting a new technology for diagnosing it and increasing the number of health facilities providing multidrug-resistant TB services. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said in Dar es Salaam yesterday ahead of World Tuberculosis Day, which is marked today, that the government had expanded the use of new and modern technology for diagnosing TB. “Currently, most of the health facilities use a GeneXpert machine to detect TB, which provide results within two hours and can test many samples at ago instead of microscopy which provide results after 48 hours,” Ms Mwalimu noted. She said the government had increased the number of GeneXpert machines from 70 in 2015 to 218 by December 2018 and they were distributed to all referral hospitals at regional and district levels and some health centres, adding that it had placed order for the addition of more than 400 machines .Ms Mwalimu noted that GeneXpert machines were also distributed to some private health facilities, insisting that screening for the disease was provided for free in both public and private health facilities. She directed regional and district medical officers to ensure the government’s directives to provide free TB screening using GeneXpert machines were observed. The minister further explained that the government had continued improving services for multidrug-resistant TB by making them accessible to members of the community. She added that the number of hospitals providing treatment for multidrug-resistant TB (MDRTB) had increased to 93 from one Hospital Kibong’oto, which was offering services in 2015. “MDR-TB services are available in all regions except Mara, Manyara and Katavi,” Ms Mwalimu stressed. She, however, said since the fifth phase government assumed power in 2015 it had managed to increase the number of new TB patients from 62,180 to 75,845 in 2018, thus exceeding the target by the UN General Assembly of reaching 74,200 TB patients. Ms Ummy noted that TB patients, who had not started treatment could infect between 10 and 20 people per year, thus it was important to ensure all patients were reached to prevent new infections. She said Tanzania was among the 30 highest TB burdened countries and that it was estimated that 154,000 cases were reported annually, equivalent to 269 patients in every 100,000 Tanzanians. The disease also causes 70 deaths per day. Ms Mwalimu added that according to estimates Tanzania was supposed to reach 154, 0000 patients every year and put them on treatment. Medical Officer in-charge in Mbagala Rangi Tatu Hospital, Dr Ally Mussa, said Rangitatu TB District was leading at regional and district levels by having a larger number of TB patients both adults and children. He said last year, Temeke Region reported 4,876 compared to 1,334 patients reported in Rangitatu District. Dr Mussa explained that during its establishment in 2007, Rangitatu District had 671 patients per year, but until last year the number of patients had reached 1,334equivalent to 50.2 per cent. He also added that reported TB cases on children had been increasing annually whereby in 2016 there were 169 cases in 2017, 207 cases, while in 2018, 267 children were diagnosed with the disease. World Tuberculosis Day is marked on March 24 every year to raise public awareness about the devastating health, social and economic consequences of TB, and make efforts to end the global TB epidemic. The theme for this year’s commemoration is ‘To join collaborative efforts to step up the fight to end TB’.