THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court yesterday pinned down the Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) Wazalendo leader, Zitto Kabwe and his sureties, over jumping bail in a criminal trial pending before the Dar es Salaam Court. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi has directed Zitto and the sureties who bailed him to appear before the court on April 9, 2019, and give reasons why they failed to show up when the trial allegedly linking the police force with killing of 100 people in Kigoma Region was called for hearing. He pointed out that the accused on bail had the duty to come to court whenever required or inform the court over his whereabouts in case he failed to appear. Likewise, the magistrate said, the sureties’ duty was to ensure the accused person’s attendance in court or not must appear and account for his absence. To the surprise of the court, none of the two showed up. Instead, a brother –in-law of Zitto identified as Vicent Kasela attended the court session with information that his sister had called to inform him that her husband was sick. Having doubted the report, the magistrate said, “We will not reach anywhere if we go by this style. You will blame us unfairly if we will decide to tighten the noose. Both accused and his sureties must attend the next session and account for why they failed to attend the session.” Earlier, State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, had informed the court that they were ready to proceed with the hearing with a witness, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Shamila Mkoma. However, the trial attorney submitted, neither the accused nor the sureties appeared to explain Zitto’s whereabouts. He requested the court to hold them accountable for their absence. Zitto’s Advocate Steven Mwakibola, replied that his client’s close relative was in court to explain what happened. The advocate further told the court that the surety was in Bagamoyo and was not aware whether Zitto, who is also a Member of Parliament (MP) for Kigoma Urban, could not attend his case because of sickness. In the case, the ACT Wazalendo leader is facing three sedition counts. The prosecution alleges that the accused person committed the offences on October 28, 2018 at Kijitonyama area within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam, while holding a press conference at ACT Wazalendo headquarters. With intent to bring hatred to the citizens of the United Republic of Tanzania against the lawful authority of the government, the leader of the opposition party is alleged to have uttered several seditious words against the Tanzania Police Force. Among such words includes, “....watu ambao walikuwa ni majeruhi katika tukio la mapambanpo baina ya wananchi na polisi wakiwa wamekwenda hospitali kupata matibabu katika kituo cha afya cha Nguruka, Polisi wakapata taarifa kuwa kuna watu wanne wamekwenda hospitali ..wakawafuata kule wakawaua.” Literary meaning, “people who were injured during confrontation with the police went to hospital for medical treatment at Nguruka health centre, but the police received reports that four people had gone to the hospital... they followed them there and killed them.” Zitto is also alleged to have said, “....lakini tumefuatilia kwa kina jambo hili, taarifa ambazo tumezipata kutoka kijijini Mpeta-Nguruka, Uvinza ni mbaya, ni taarifa ambazo zinaonyesha wananchi wengi sana wameuwawa na jeshi la polisi….” Meaning “.....but we have closely followed the matter, the information we have received from Mpeta-Ngwa village, is bad, it is a report showing several people have been killed by the police force.. “... pamoja na kwamba afande Sirro amekwenda kule, hajatoa taarifa yoyote kuhusu wananchi...kama hawa Wanyantuzu walivamia eneo la Ranchi, kuna taratibu za kisheria za kuchukua na sio kuwaua, wananchi wengi sana wamekufa....” It means, “...although Mr Sirro has gone there, no information has been given about the people ... if these Nyantuzu people invaded the ranch area, there are legal procedures to take and not to kill them, so many people have died...” Furthermore, the prosecution charges Zitto with sedition for saying, “Tumekuwa tukifuatilia kwa kina yanayojiri yote huko Uvinza... tunasikitika kusema kuwa taarifa tunazozipata kutoka Uvinza zinaogofya mno.. “... kwani tunaambiwa kuwa wananchi zaidi ya 100 wa Kabila la Wanyantuzu wamepoteza maisha kwa kupigwa risasi na Polisi, wengine wakisemwa kuuawa hata wakiwa kwenye matibabu hospitalini baada ya kujeruhiwa kwenye purukushani na jeshi la polisi.” This means, “We’ve been following up on what is happening in Uvinza ... we’re sorry to say that the information we get is terrifying... we are told that more than 100 members of Wanyantuzu tribe have lost lives by being shot by police, others are said to have been killed while receiving treatment in hospital...”