THE government has officially established Performance Contract to water supply and sewerage authorities which will serve as a yardstick for performance to attain the government’s goal in water supply. Speaking at a meeting with directors and board chairpersons of water supply and sewerage authorities here yesterday, Water Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa said the Performance Contract was vital to establish if the authorities attain their goals annually. “The government will go through the Performance Contract of every water supply authority annually to establish if the goals set by the authorities are attained,” said the Minister while opening the meeting. The meeting which was organised by the Water Ministry also saw DAWASA, TANGA-UWASA and Bukoba Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (BUWASA) signed the Performance Contract. Prof Mbarawa informed that the Performance Contract was not introduced to witchhunt any person, but rather to improve performance of water supply and sewerage authorities in the country. The minister said the Water Service and Sanitation Act has been endorsed by the Parliament, pointing out that the new act would help to improve accountability in the water sector. Deputy Water Minister, Mr Jumaa Aweso said the water supply authorities should well supervise implementation of water projects in their respective areas, saying the projects should meet V alue for Money. He said the government spends a lot of money for the water projects to ensure all the people get access to water services, saying the water supply and sewerage authorities should get assurance of the water projects before receiving them from contractors. Delivering a vote of thanks during the meeting, the Board Chairman of Moshi Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Authority, Prof Faustine Bee promised the government to make use of the performance contract to improve operations. “The Performance Contract will be used to gauge our performance, thus to improve water supply service,” said the Board Chairman.