THE High Court yesterday gave operators of a pyramid scheme, the Development Entrepreneurship for Community Initiative (DECI), one week to file their responses to an application by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), seeking forfeiture to the government of their properties, including 14bn/-. Judge Steven Magoiga ordered Advocate Majura Magafu, for DECI owners, who are respondents in the matter, to file their counter affidavit on or before March 25, 2019, while the DPP would file his reply to the counter affidavit on March 29, 2019. The judge set hearing of the application on April 4, 2019. Before setting the dates, the DPP, Mr Biswalo Mganga, who appeared in person, informed the court that the respondents in the matter, Jackson Sifael Mtares, Dominick Kigendi, Timotheo Saigaran ole Loitginye and Samwel Sifael Mtares, who were all directors of DECI, were served on March 7, 2019. Apart from such normal services, he said, his office went further by publications in three different newspapers to enable whoever would be interested to come forward and defend or otherwise the application so that justice was done. “As we are speaking before you now, we have not received any counter affidavit. This means that our application goes without being opposed. Under the circumstances we are ready for hearing of the next step,” the DPP told the judge. However, Mr Magafu requested the court to grant him time to file the counter affidavit. According to him, he understood the concern by the DPP over the matter, but it would be in the interest of justice for the court to give him time to respond to the application. Among the properties whose forfeiture the DPP is requesting the High Court to order, include cash money in a bank account held at National Microfinance Bank (NMB), Msasani Branch amounting to 12,503,068,647/89. There is cash money in a bank account held at Dar es Salaam Community Bank (DCB), Uhuru Branch, amounting to 1,457,700,462/49 and other cash money in a bank account held at Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Samora Branch amounting to 57,933,404/10. Other properties include houses and plots, notably three houses, one located at Mwembe Madafu, Ukonga, another at Manzese and the other in Kinondoni Municipality, all in Dar es Salaam and one house situated along Rufiji Street in Mwanza. There is Plot No. 651 Block M located at Forest area in Mbeya, landed property on Plot No. 2/283/2 Block E at Mabibo, Kinondoni, unsurveyed land at Manyinga Village in Mvomero, Morogoro and Plot No. 467 Block H located at Tegeta area in Dar es Salaam. Other properties include 11 motor vehicles of different make, notably Toyota Land Cruiser, Nissan Terrano, Mitsubishis Pajero, Toyota Mark II, Toyota Ipsum, Subaru Legacy, Toyota RAV4 and Toyota Premio. The DPP filed the application in compliance with the decision made by the Court of Appeal in 2018 in terms of sections 9 (1) (a) and 16 (1) of the Proceeds of Crime Act, as amended. In its judgment, the Court of Appeal saved the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) from paying over 92bn/- to about 400,000 customers of the DECI, who allegedly participated in an illegal pyramid scheme of depositing and receiving money. This followed a decision of Justices Batuel Mmilla, Sivangilwa Mwangesi and Gerald Ndika to allow the appeal lodged by the DPP, opposing the judgment of the High Court and that of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam over the matter. “We appreciate the fact that the BoT had nothing to do with that case because it was neither a party nor was it entrusted the task to keep the property seized from DECI (T) Limited,” they said in the judgment dated September 7, 2018. Unfortunately, the justices went on, both lower courts did not throw light or give justification why, despite the obvious fact that the Central Bank was not in any way involved in that case, such courts below gave the Bank that task. “Besides given that the PCA (Proceeds of Crime Act) had prescribed the procedure on how to deal with tainted property, that duty was wrongly placed on that Bank. In conclusion, we allow the appeal and quash the orders of the first appellate court,” they declared.