THE massive attendance at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam played a vital role in Simba’s crucial win over AS Vita in CAF Champions League match on Saturday night. Simba cruised into CAF CL quarterfinals following a hard fought 2-1 victory against the DR Congo giants in front of highly supporting home fans, whom Simba SC Coach, Patrick Aussems said to be his team’s winning magic. Zambian import midfielder Cletous Chama stabbed the winner in the injury time of the hotly contested match making it even harder for their opponents to come back into the clash. What Simba’s Head Coach Patrick Aussems has been saying in most of his press briefings that playing before 60,000 home fans enables his side defeat any team, including the record title winners Al Ahly, who suffered a 1-0 loss prior to AS V ita encounter. Ausems said what the home crowd support did to their team can be seen through what their club has achieved so far. No home loss helped Simba outrace AS V ita and JS Soura, the group D mates who allowed draws at their home venues. Immediately after the match, CAF Media Expert Collins Okinyo wrote on his Instagram page: “Simba fans have amazingly filled the 60,000-seat National Stadium in Dar es Salaam versus AS Vita. Simba has the biggest attendance in CAF CL games and it is not free entry. Amazing story for African football.” Simba have joined Al Ahly (Egypt) who finished top of the group D with 10 points into the last eight of the competition. In group A, Wydad Casablanca (Morocco) and Mamelodi Sundowns (South Africa) have both excelled into the quarter finals after claiming 10 points each from six games. In group B, Espérance Sportive de Tunis from Tunisia and Horoya (Guinea) sailed into the last eight thanks to 14 and 10 points obtained after their six fixtures while in group C, TP Mazembe (Congo) and CS Constantine (Algeria) have advanced courtesy of 11 and 10 points orderly. At a post-match press briefing, Aussems said they will do anything possible to make it into the finals of the unfolding competition. “As you saw, we got 5-0 away defeats, but now, we are here celebrating after advancing into the last eight. This is what makes football unpredictable,” the Belgian coach said. He added that Simba’s victory is not only a good news to Tanzanians but the entire East Africa Community will now be eyeing them as the sole representatives of the region into the contest. “When you talk about football in EAC, and Africa at large, the name of Simba will always be there,” he said. However, Aussems admitted that his side needs to change on the way they approach away games for them to go deeper into the campaign. “I think during the group stage matches, we were too respectful in away matches and we must change to win away games as well to stand a chance of racing into the semifinals,” he said. On his part, AS V ita Head Coach Florent Ibengé lauded Simba players for producing a good fight which made his team to farewell the lucrative contest. “We have lost because our opponents were better than us. Let me take this chance to congratulate my colleague Patrick Aussems for his brave football tactics. We were together in France at one time and I believe that he is the right man to drive Simba to prosperity,” he said. Esteemed Simba fans started pouring at the Stadium on Saturday as early as 10:00am in vibrant mood to back up their beloved team. However, in quarter finals stage, both points and goals are highly taken into consideration.