TWO Young Africans Executive Committee Members-- Samuel Lukumayi and Hussein Nyika yesterday resigned from their responsibilities to pave way for the General Election at the club this year. Addressing members of the media at the club’s headquarters in the city, Lukumayi who served as the acting chairman of the club, said the decision to step down was made to allow the club to conduct general election and not the one meant to fill the vacant posts. “About two weeks ago, we were four members in the Executive Committee, but two of our colleagues have resigned, meaning that if the election to fill vacant posts was given a green light, then six posts could have been contested for and not the usual four places as before,” Lukumayi said. He added that initially, Y anga’s General Election was set to be conducted next year but because there will be general election of the country, they have seen it necessary to conduct the club election this year. On his part, Nyika who doubled as the club’s Chairman of the Players Registration and Competition Committees, said despite resigning from his duties, he is still the legitimate member of the club and will offer his assistance to the incoming new leaders of the club. “Our decision to step down is for the benefit of the club and we believe that the upcoming general election will be conducted in a transparent manner,” Nyika said. He also thanked good relationship he received from different stakeholders during his leadership tenure. “We are happy to step aside at this time when the team sits top of the Mainland Premier League table and also title contenders of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC),” he said. However, when they were asked as to whether they will pick nomination forms to contest in the upcoming election, Lukumayi said he would rather keep his card close to his chest, while Nyika declined to comment further insisting that he is a legal member of the club hence capable to do anything for the benefit of the club. Later on the day, the club’s Board of Trustees held a meeting at the headquarters to deliberate the way forward and proposed April 28th this year as the date to conduct the general election. Shortly after the meeting, Chairman of the board, George Mkuchika said they have formed a six member committee to take care of all the team’s affairs until the election time. He named the committee members as Mashauri Lucas (Chairman), Said Ntimizi (Vice-Chairman), Ndama Hussein, Hussein Nyika, Moses Katabaro and Maulid Kitenge. “As you know, at present, we have no leadership at the club at the moment following resignation of all Executive Committee members who were driving the club. Now, as the Board of Trustees, we have proposed April 28th as the general election date,” said Mkuchika. Mkuchika, who also had a briefing with the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, said they will officially communicate to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and other relevant sports governing bodies in the country on the club’s election date and procedure. Moreover, the chairman unveiled a 10 member committee to oversee all election procedures. He named them as Samuel Mapande (Chairman), Daniel Mlelwa, Mustafa Nagari, Godfrey Mapunda, Edward Mwakingwe, Samuel Mangesho, Issa Gavu, Venance Mwamoto, Seif Gulamali and Dunstan Kitandula. Moreover, Mkuchika said they have requested that all procedures pertaining to election be done at the club’s headquarters, while sports bodies in the country will have the supervision responsibilities. Speaking at the occasion, Minister Mwakyembe said he was impressed with the approach taken by the club’s Board of Trustees. Speaking after a brief meeting held at the club’s headquarters yesterday, Mwakyembe said immediately after hearing that two key officials had resigned; he opted to visit the club to hear the story by himself.