ABC basketball team started this year RBA League with a winning note, after thrashing their rivals Mgulani JKT 76-45. The opening league match held at the National Indoor Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday saw ABC in full control to humiliate their opponent Mgulani JKT, who earned promotion this year. ABC started strongly to register 13-11 lead in the first quarter, but were second best in the second quarter in which they added only eight points, while their opponents posted 19 points. JKT Mgulani took a 21-30 lead at the break. The setback only fuelled gas for winners, who are equipped with experienced players as they came back strongly in the third quarter, with dazzling display and hit 30-6 points to take over the 51-36 lead, before scoring 25-9 in the fourth quarter to seal a 76-45 victory. Alinani Andrew snatched 24 points to steer ABC’s perfect start, as Philbert Mwaipungu added 15 points. JKT Mgulani best scorers were Dadi Salimu and Claudi Msheni, who hit 14 and 13 respectively. Other teams that were on action yesterday evening include Savio against Ukonga Kings, Oilers were due to face Vijana, while Ukonga Princesses were to take on Jeshi Stars Queens and Ukonga Queens were to confront Donbosco Lioness. The RBA League, which involves men and women’s teams, is set to enter its second day today at the same venue. The annual league is organised by Basketball Dar es Salaam (BD) and it was officially opened yesterday. BD Technical and Competition Director, Gosbert Boniface said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that 16 men and nine women teams will battle it out for the top honours. He named men teams as defending champions JKT, ABC, Chui, DB Youngsters, Jogoo, Kurasini Heat, Mabibo Bullets, Magnet, Mgulani JKT, Oilers, Pazi, Savio, Segerea BC, Tanzania Prisons, Ukonga Kings and Vijana. According to Boniface women sides include reigning champions Donbosco Lioness, Jeshi Stars, Kurasini Divas, Oilers Princesses, Tanzania Prisons Queens, Ukonga Princesses, Ukonga Queens and Vijana Queens. Today’s first match will see Segerea taking on BD Youngsters before Magnet challenge Jogoo skills in all men’s battle. Women’s battle between Vijana Queens and Kurasini Divas will follow up before other men’s games that will see Pazi entertaining Chui, Tanzania Prisons will clash against Kurasini Heat, and last match of the day will see Chui returning to ground again this time against ABC.