MOBILE operators have todate invested around 6tri/- in the country generating combined revenues of 2.9tri/-, report on digital transformation in Tanzania conducted by separate stakeholders of digital technology in 2017 has unveiled. One of the stakeholders who conducted the research GSMA said Tanzania’s mobile market which served by major four mobile operators together account for 96 per cent of market share. “Mobile services today connect more people in Tanzania than any other communications technology, with around 42 per cent of the population subscribing to a mobile service,” an official with GSMA, Kenechi Okeleke said in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He said in 2017, the mobile operators generated combined revenues of 2.9tri/- equivalent to 15 per cent of which was re-invested in network development as apex. He said that the report highlights some major important contributions the mobile industry is making to the development goals, including the driving of productivity and efficient gains in business and public institutions especially in the agriculture sector. However, Mr Okeleke said the mobile industry now faces several industry and regulatory challenges that need to be addressed to ensure the long-term sustainability of the industry and its capacity to extend lifeenhancing services to underserved communities. Speaking to the same event, the Chief Executive Officer for Dar Teknohama Business Incubator (DTBi), Dr George Mulamula said across the country, mobile is giving people access to key services while improving public and private sector service delivery. “Mobile industry is an opportunity to Tanzanians especially the youth in innovating systems that would enable to bring improvements in entrepreneurship activities especially for the people in rural areas and boost the development of the country’s economy,” he said. The research report that prepared from 2017, conducted by TAMNOA and GSMA in partnership with Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDT), DBTi, Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA) and Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) as well as Mobile Companies. According to the report, Tanzania is the one of the most advanced mobile money markets in Sub-Saharan Africa. The services helped to enhance the efficiency of the economy by reducing the need for users to travel long distances to bank branches to make personal transactions.