THE Indian investors have shown interest to invest in health sector in efforts to promote affordable and quality services. The mission was revealed over the weekend during the India-East Africa Business Forum’s Healthcare Conference in Dar es Salaam. The forum with potential investors citing conducive investment environment set by the Tanzanian government as among of the main factors which pushed them to come in the country. The conference was part of a two-day Namaskar Africa 2019 India Business Forum and Exhibition held in Dar es Salaam recently. It was organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and brought together over 40 companies from Indian sectors of health, insurance, technology, agro food and chemicals, education, energy, banking and construction. Vice-President and Head of International Business at India-based Medanta Hospital, Dr Navneet Malhotro said that his institution was willing to help Tanzania with technical training to improve the quality of human resources so as to improve healthcare provision in the country. He said that even if the mission to invest in Tanzania health sector was yet to materialise, the forum members were ready to offer free training to Tanzanian health service providers. “We are ready to provide short in-service training for a minimum of 12 Tanzanian medical specialists, annually. Let the government send the doctors and we are ready to help,” he said. India’s Sharda Hospital Senior Manager International Relations Dr Vaurn Aggarwal said that potential investors were on discussion with the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children to make the mission attained. “We want the services like broad spectrum of medical services from tertiary care, super-specialties, general specialties, advanced diagnostic and radiology services to critical care, to be cheaply available in Tanzania as it is in India,” he said. He noted that with the rising demand for healthcare, Indian hospitals saw a major role in strengthening Africa’s healthcare infrastructure by setting up hospitals and through various capacity building initiatives. The investors commended Tanzania’s government for its tireless efforts which open more rooms for private sector to invest in healthcare, operate smoothly and thus contribute to the country’s development. Earlier, the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Executive Director Mr Godfrey Simbeye said the country’s vision is to create a political, economic and social framework for private investors’ participation in investment and trade. “This is clear testimony that Tanzania is really a destination of choice. India is a global economy and her interest in Africa can smoothly grow,” he said.