SHORTAGE of funds might affect the effective implementation of the Post Code and residential address exercise going on countrywide as the state sets aside 4bn/- for the vital task. The scenario was revealed here on Thursday as the Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Mr Atashasta Nditiye was receiving implementation status of the exercise for Mwanza region, mainly on Mwanza City Council and Ilemela Municipality. Deputy Minister Nditiye said that so far the task was progressing relatively well in many parts of the country, but the challenge remains on the local government leaders to collaborate and identify streets, houses and roads and provide the recommended names ready for the exercise to be rolled out effectively. “We are progressing well, with the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority almost done with all the Post Codes which can now be accessed online using special codes. The challenge remains with some Wards and local leaders furnishing us with names of the streets,” he said. According to Mr Nditiye, the government had set aside 4bn/- in this financial year for fixing the poles showing the streets and residential addresses, but said that cannot be sufficient if crucial arrangements in the LGAs are lagging behind. Shortly after the remark by the Deputy Minister on the matter, officials who are in-charge of the ambitious programme for Mwanza City Centre and Ilemela Municipality briefed him and the media on the progress, citing serious shortage of funds in making sure the task is completed on time. The Ilemela Municipal Planning Officer, Kennedy Chigulu told the ‘Sunday News’ that the exercise needed to be undertaken carefully and comprehensively, involving all leaders in the local governments who must be paid allowances. Due to that requirement, he said the Municipality needed at least 1.07bn/- to have the job accomplished, but experience has shown that the amount cannot be accumulated in time to meet the deadline. “We have already identified 28,000 houses and 1565 streets in eight wards out of 19 wards, but it appears we cannot manage the task on our own. We have therefore asked for the government to support us so that we can complete it more effectively,” he said. He said the Municipality had already set aside some funds in the budget for 2018/2019, but the situation will eventually force the Council to ask for the people to make some contributions as well. His colleague from Mwanza City Council (MCC), Mr Moses Seleki said the exercise was progressing relatively well, with five wards out of 18 wards being reached so far with 253 roads and their names being identified and submitted in his office. The Acting Mwanza Regional Commissioner, Mr Emmanuel Kipole said all the districts were on the right track, with almost all of them already forming Post Code and Residential Address committees to facilitate the task. He said despite the budget challenge reported by nearly all the districts, Mwanza region was determined to make the exercise a reality and meet the pace already recorded by other regions like Dodoma which is reportedly doing well.