SIMBA duo Emmanuel Okwi and Jjuuko Murshid are among 15 foreign based players named in the Uganda Cranes provisional squad to face Taifa Stars. Taifa Stars and Uganda Cranes will face off in the final group L encounter of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on March 24th this year. While things seemed to be quiet on the side of Tanzania, Uganda Cranes Frenchman tactician, Sebastien Desabre is moving rather quickly in preparing his team despite the fact that Uganda Cranes have already qualified for the finals. Desabre has also summoned Azam FC left back, Nico Wadada in his provisional squad which comprises a total of 46 players. The coach has also included 31 other local based players featuring in the StarTimes Uganda Premier League, from which nine players will be selected after a Regional tour match in Kampala for a camp in Cairo together with foreign based professionals. According to Kawowo Sport in Uganda, the 31 local based players summoned for the Cranes provisional squad are set to kick off their camp next Monday to Friday at Lugogo grounds in Kampala. The 15 foreign based players will be joined by nine other stars from the local camp for a four day camp in Cairo, Egypt from March 18th to 22nd this year, ahead of their game against Emmanuel Amunike’s Taifa Stars. The Cranes 24 strong squad will travel to Cairo on March 17th for the residential camp and are expected to jet in Dar es Salaam for the game on March 23rd this year. While Uganda Cranes are setting the ball rolling, Taifa Stars Head Coach, Nigerian football legend, Amunike is yet to unveil his programme ahead of the crucial match, which will determine the fate of Tanzania’s campaign for this year’s AFCON finals to be staged in Egypt. Amunike was expected to unveil his programme last week ahead of the game. Uganda sit top of group L with 13 points from five games. Taifa Stars are second tied on five points with Lesotho’s Likuena but are separated on superior goal difference advantage, while Cape Verde are bottom of the group on four points. Cape Verde will face Lesotho at home in their final group game and mathematically, they are also in the battle for the last ticket into the finals.