THE third accused facing a murder case for the murder of four people, Ngesela Keya Ismail (25) has told the high court that he has seven pending murder cases. Ismail, who testified as Defence Witness (DW) 3 told Judge Lameck Mlacha who was presiding the case that he was forced by police at gunpoint to make a confession before a justice of the peace. He told the court that he was arrested on November 21, 2015 and was locked up at a special cell at Kashura police rest house, some three kilometres from Bukoba town until December 2, 2015 when he was taken before a justice of the peace at Kassambya, in Missenyi District. He narrated that he was tortured to make a statement at Kassambya primary court but he resisted and was later taken to Kyamunene forest, in Bukoba Rural District where he was forced to sign several documents at gunpoint. A government chemist, Mr Fidelis Segumba (40), told the High Court that he conducted DNA tests on several exhibits which he received from the Kagera Regional Crimes’ Officer (RCO), and found blood stains that matched those of the accused persons who are facing a murder charge offence. Mr Segumba, who testified as PW 9, also tendered as exhibit a Maasai sword and two machetes, which the prosecution claimed were used in the mysterious killings of more than 20 people. The killings, most of the victims of which had their throats cut, and which caused much panic amongst Kagera Region residents, were linked to superstitious beliefs. Three prisoners who are currently serving life imprisonment for burning a Roman Catholic Church at Kanazi, in Bukoba Rural District are facing a murder Case No 66/2017 for the murder of four people. The convicts were identified as Aliyu Dauda Hassan (36) from Kemondo, in Bukoba Rural district, Rashid Mzee Athuman (29), and Ngesela Keya Ismail (24) both from Rwamishenye Ward, in Bukoba Municipality. Mr John Kessy, the former OC CID for Bukoba, on the other hand, told the court that on November 1, 2015 four people, three males and a female were murdered on a single night. He told the court that at around 11.30 o’clock at night, he received a phone call and immediately rushed to Ekigoma Hamlet in Katoma Ward, about 15 kilometres from Bukoba town and found two bodies-of a male and a female lying in a pool of blood. According to Mr Kessy, who testified as PW 10, as detectives were examining the bodies, he received another call and rushed to the nearby Akilembo Hamlet where he found two more bodies. He identified the deceased as Kaijage John, Anastela Paschal, Emmanuel Joseph and Evodius Aloys, all residents of Katoma Ward, in Bukoba Rural District.