GOALKEEPER Klaus Kindoki was the hero, as Young Africans sneaked out with a 4-3 win on penalties over hard fighting Alliance FC, in the quarterfinals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). The two teams had to be separated on penalties as the thrilling match at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza yesterday ended in a 1-1 after normal time. Striker, Heritier Makambo’s first half strike was cancelled out by Joseph James in the second stanza. Kindoki saved two penalties to deny Alliance chance to progress into their first ever semifinals of the ASFC. The Congolese goalie, who experienced frosty start into life at Yanga and was frequently criticised for silly mistakes between the posts, is increasingly becoming solid rock. Kindoki became the hero for his side, after his colleagues -- Kelvin Yondani and Mrisho Ngasa missed their spot kicks but Yanga were relieved after goalkeeper saved two Alliance penalties to see his side booking a date with Lipuli FC in the semifinal at the Samora Stadium in Iringa. He denied Alliance skipper, Siraji Juma’s penalty which was the sixth after the teams tied 3-3 in their initial five penalty shootouts. Kindoki had also parried off Dickson Ambundo’s shot, before saving Juma’s last penalty. Yanga scored their penalties through Paul Godfrey, Thabani Kamusoko, Haruna Moshi and Deus Kaseke. Alliance netted their penalties through Joseph James, Godfrey Luseke and Samir Vincent while Martin Kigi, Ambundo and Juma wasted their shots. Mwinyi Zahera’s charges came into the game eager to win and book their ticket into the semis. Yanga started strongly launching forays on Alliance domain, searching for an early opener but missed open chances to score including a free header from Pius Buswita. However, Yanga were almost pegged back in the 13th minute, when Alliance recovered but Michael Chinedu’s header was well gathered by keeper, Kindoki. Alliance were on the ascendency launching attack after attack and notable was in the 34th minute, when Chinedu fired a close range shot that was blocked to a corner kick. Yanga snatched the lead in the 38th minute, through Makambo’s thunderbolt. The striker collected the ball from a neat Buswita pass with his right foot and swiftly shifted the ball to his left before firing a cracker to beat goalkeeper, John Mwanda. The goal came against the run of play. After the break, Alliance came strongly and pulled level in the 62nd minute, when holding midfielder, Joseph James connected with a fine side flick header from a set piece well taken by Godlove Kidumule, beating Kindoki at a close range. Both sides made changes with Alliance bringing in Hussein Javu and Samir Vincent for Paul Maona and Chinedu respectively, while Yanga introduced Haruna Moshi and Thabani Kamusoko for Amis Tambwe and Buswita respectively. The changes were more productive to Alliance who dominated most part of the half but failed to turn the chance they created into goals to see the game end in a 1-1 draw and proceed to penalties. ASFC semifinals will see Lipuli hosting Yanga at Samora Stadium, while in another semi KMC will host Azam FC.