TAIFA Stars continue to drill for the final AFCON group L qualifiers match against Uganda Cranes in the camp that got a huge boost from professional players who have j oined the camp. The players, who have already reported at the camp, include the team’s skipper, Mbwana Samatta who is assigned to lead his teammates in a tough mission to clear Cranes hurdle. Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Information and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo unveiled yesterday in Dar es Salaam that the all professional players have reported at the camp ahead of the crucial Sunday clash. Stars skipper who plays for the Belgian topflight league side, KRC Genk, reported at the camp pitched in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday soon after his arrival from Belgium on Monday night. According to Ndimbo the foreign-based players arrived in Dar es Salaam in two batches, with the first batch arriving on Monday and the second one yesterday. The professional players include Hassan Kessy (Nkana FC, Zambia), Yahya Zayd (Ismaily, Egypt), Himid Mao (Petrojet- Egypt), Shaaban Chilunda (Tenerife, Spain) and Shiza Kichuya from Egyptian side ENPPI. Others are Simon Msuva from Morocco’s El Jadida, Rashid Mandawa (BDF, Botswana) Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura, Algeria), Farid Mussa (Tenerife, Spain) and the team’s skipper, Samatta. In another development, Simba and Stars experienced player Erasto Nyoni who was recalled in the Amunike’s squad to replace Andrew V incent after being out of action for quite some times, has already joined the camp. Nyoni has been recalled by Coach Amunike after putting a stellar performance on his first day in action when Simba overpowered Congo DR giants, AS V ita Club to emerge 2-1 victors and book their place into the CAF Champions League quarterfinals. The experienced tough defender has replaced Y oung Africans defender V incent who is still nursing injuries. The team’s local based players kicked off intensive training early this week under Amunike and his technical team. Stars squad summoned by Amunike for the Sunday’s match are Aishi Manula (Simba), Feisal Salum (Y oung Africans), Hassan Kessy (Nkana, Zambia), Yahya Zayd (Ismaily, Egypt), Gadiel Michael (Y oung Africans), Himid Mao (Petrojet, Egypt), Mudathir Yahya (Azam FC), Shaaban Chilunda (Tenerife, Spain), Kelvin Y ondan (Y oung Africans), Shiza Ramadhan (ENPPI, Egypt), Simon Msuva (El Jadida, Morocco) and Rashid Mandawa from Botswana’s BDF. Others are Jonas Mkude (Simba), Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk, Belgium), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura, Algeria), Mechata Mnata (Mbao FC), Aron Kalambo (Tanzania Prisons), Suleiman Salula (Malindi FC, Zanzibar), V icent Phillipo (Mbao FC), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli FC), Kennedy Wilson (Singida United), Aggrey Morris (Azam FC), John Bocco (Simba) and Farid Mussa from Spain side Tenerife. Meanwhile Stars opponents, Uganda Cranes have also stepped up their preparation as they have shifted their training camp from Uganda to Egypt ahead of their game against Stars and more of their foreign-based players have already joined the camp.