THE President of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (Mechanism), Judge Carmel Agius, has concluded his first visit to Tanzania in his capacity as the president. The visit took place on the occasion of the second inperson Plenary of Mechanism Judges, that was held at the Mechanism’s Arusha branch on 4 and 5 March 2019, a report released by the Mechanism stated in part. Following the successful conclusion of the Judges’ Plenary, President Agius spent the day at the Mechanism premises on 6 March, 2019 with the other Principals, to hold a meeting with all the staff at the Town Hall in the city. “In addition, he met with Section Chiefs of the Registry and staff from the Office of the Prosecutor. President Agius also paid a courtesy call to the President of the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights, Judge Sylvain Oré, where they discussed matters of mutual interest and relevance to the two institutions,” said the report. President Agius, together with Mechanism Registrar, Mr Olufemi Elias, thereafter travelled to Dar es Salaam on 7 March 2019, where he met with the Chief Justice of Tanzania, Professor Ibrahim Juma. During their meeting, he provided Prof Juma with work updates of the Mechanism and in turn he informed them about the Judiciary of Tanzania’s ‘Five years Strategic Plan’ for reforms to the Tanzanian Justice System. On 8 March 2019, his itinerary took him for a Diplomatic Briefing by the members of the diplomatic corps accredited to Tanzania and representatives of international organisations, at the premises of the United Nations Development Programme in Dar es Salaam. During the briefing, attended by some 20 ambassadors and other members of the diplomatic corps, President Agius and Registrar Elias provided an overview of the Mechanism’s activities and answered questions from the audience. President Agius assumed the Presidency of the Mechanism on 19 January, 2019, having been a judge of the Mechanism since its inception in 2012. He previously served for 16 years as a judge of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Y ugoslavia,including as its vice-president (2011-2015) and final president (2015-2017). The Mechanism was established by UN Security Council Resolution 1966 (2010) to complete the remaining work of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia after the completion of their respective mandates. The Mechanism has two branches, one in Arusha and another in The Hague, Netherlands.