FADHILI Nkya was in his sparkling form when he overpowered his pursuers to win the first Golf Pros Tour title at the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) on Wednesday. Nkya from Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) L ugalo Golf Club, carded a par level- 71 gross strokes to beat his closest challenger by a shot. Organised by Professional Golfers Association of Tanzania (PGAT) and sponsored by PGAT chairman Jean Bosco, the thrilling competition brought together 14 professional golfers from L ugalo and Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) both based in Dar es Salaam. Joyful Nkya complimented the Chairman for stepping forward to support the association in organising the maiden tour, which was also the first PGAT event. Nkya said the competition was too stiff as he needed to be calm to win the top prize. “It was a very closely contested event as my opponents played very well; it shows that the level of playing is getting better and better, with a string of events, we can get even better,” said Nkya. His club-mate Iddi Mzaki who carded one-over 72 strokes, said he enjoyed playing in the competition, though finished second behind Nkya. Geoffrey L everian also from L ugalo was further a shot two-over 73 to finish third. L ugalo golfers dominated the first tour as Abdalah Y usuph, who carded 74 finished fourth, host Hassan Kadio had 77 at fifth followed by Bryceson Nyenza with 78 and Frank Mwinuka also with 78. Other pros who took part, but failed to win titles include hosts Rodrick John, Hassan Mwanyenza, Hamisi Ally and Rajabu Iddi. Others who helped to spice up the challenge were Salimu Dilunga, Daudi Helela of L ugalo and PGAT secretary senior pro, Salim Mwanyenza. Mwanyenza thanked the chairman for making players active when sponsored the 18-hole competition. The Pros tour event will be held once a week rotating between the two Dar-based clubs of DGC and L ugalo. He said that after the successful start, the second battle will be shifted to L ugalo course next week. Mwanyenza said that among other things, the tours aim at promoting the game and players’ skills so that they can compete against other top golfers in East African region.