TANZANIA is looking forward to making urbanisation an opportunity, not a challenge, as it gears to launch the National Urbanisation Roadmap in July. “The roadmap is a vital document that will clearly indicate the steps to follow and issues to consider if we are to take urbanisation as an opportunity,” affirmed Dr Lorah Madete, Principal Economist, Ministry of Finance and Planning. Dr Mdete elaborated that the draft roadmap was developed at the end of last year and followed by a consultation process of the roadmap. “The consultation window was open till February this year and we are planning to have a validation workshop around April or May before we launch the roadmap in July 2019,” she said. Currently, the document is under review,with collection of views from different stakeholders, she explained during the 7th Tanzania Urbanisation Laboratory (TULab) meeting in the city over the weekend. Stakeholders have met to give feedback on the consultation process of the roadmap. During the meeting, the experts reviewed an Industrial Pathways Study which was also a major input into the National Urbanisation Roadmap. The TULab was established by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and collaborated with the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF) and Coalition for Urban Transitions (CUT). ESRF’s Executive Director Dr Tausi Mbaga Kida, said the TULab has been working on the roadmap since September 2017, and commissioned three pieces of research that were intended to feed into the roadmap. The research plan and findings were discussed in a series of meetings and were completed in June 2018, paving the way for starting the actual work of drafting the roadmap. She added that the roadmap defines a desired outcome and includes the major steps or milestones needed to reach it and serves as a communication tool or a high-level document that helps articulate the strategic thinking regarding urbanisation. In order to have an implementable urbanisation roadmap, stakeholders’ involvement at every stage is vital and this is what TULab has been doing, she said, adding: “The TULab emphasis is on identifying the right questions and root causes for informed policy decisions. The TULab positioned itself as a forum in which we could both gather interdisciplinary knowledge for better urban growth.”