TANZANIA is set to receive financial reparation from airline operators who were forced to re-route their flights from Kenya to the former following a strike by employees at the latter’s major airports which stranded hundreds of passengers for the better part of yesterday. The airport staff downed tools on wee hours of yesterday, disrupting inbound and outbound flights at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA), with some of the inbound ones being directed to Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Tanzania. Tanzania’s Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Isack Kamwelwe, confirmed in an interview with ‘Daily News’ yesterday that they had received communication from their counterparts in Kenya on handling the emergency. “I cannot discuss the fees to be paid (by airline operators) at this moment since we are treating the situation as an emergency,” Eng Kamwelwe stated. According to experts in the aviation industry, the diverted airlines will have to pay fees to authorities in Tanzania for using its airspace and related aviation services rendered to incoming and outgoing flights. Kenya Airways’ Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Sebastian Mikosz, told journalists that 24 outbound flights had been delayed and two inbound flights had been diverted elsewhere because of the strike. “The so called morning wave (of flights) was disrupted,” he said, adding that, international flights will be delayed but would take off. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at Kenya’s main airports during the strike by workers which caused major disruptions to flights. Workers are unhappy over a planned merger between the Kenya Airways and Kenya Airports Authority (KAA). As of yesterday afternoon, the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) deployed some officers from the air force to reinforce operations at the airports. According to different news agencies, about 60 flights have failed to take off at JKIA. Some planes reportedly left without passengers. Airports in Mombasa, Eldoret and Kisumu were also disrupted. When contacted about the issue, the Managing Director of the Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company Limited (KADCO), Eng Christopher Mukoma, said that until yesterday noon, Kenya Airways plane from Juba in South Sudan to JKIA was the one that was diverted and landed at KIA. He said there was no official communication from Nairobi as to whether more planes would land at KIA and clarified that it happens as a matter of emergency so they were waiting to see what would happen. Another source had it that planes might be diverted to JNIA as well. “We had one KQ plane from Juba (South Sudan) bound to Nairobi that was diverted to KIA. May be there will be more but that occurs as an emergency,” said the engineer. The workers say the proposed take-over would put their jobs at risk. Kenya Aviation Workers Union (KAWU) is accusing national carrier (KQ ) management of financial wastage. Through KAWU Secretary General, Mr Moss Ndiema, the union claims the airline continues to pay hefty salaries to senior managers and consultants. The union further said that the payments made by the national carrier were a sign that its management was averse to financial prudency. The union further alleged that the airline’s management had in the previous year increased its salaries as well as keeping the seven Polish consultants despite obvious financial challenges. The union last week issued a strike notice effective Wednesday morning to protest planned concession of JKIA. Meanwhile Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia in a statement to newsrooms has clarified that KQ owns 20 of the 40 aircrafts under its wings. Hundreds of passengers were waiting outside the international and domestic terminals and riot police dispersed picketing ground staff. Long queues had formed at the airport’s gates, with some sources saying that some of the airport’s entry points had been closed by the workers on go-slow, prompting a heavy deployment of police. Fire engines have also been withdrawn from some runways, with planes that were supposed to leave the East African aviation hub remaining grounded. The strike notice dated February 27, 2019, by KAWU stood suspended following issuance of an order of injunction by the Employment and Labour Relations court on March 5, 2019, but the staff boycotted nevertheless.