POPE Francis has appointed Tanzanian born Archbishop Novatus Rugambwa  Apostolic Nuncio for New Zealand. The Vatican Bulletin issued in Rome yesterday said Archbishop Rugambwa, who is Titular Archbishop of Tagaria, would also work as Apostolic Delegate in the Pacific Ocean. Archbishop Rugambwa, who was until recently Apostolic Nuncio in Honduras, was born on October 8, 1957 in Bukoba Catholic Diocese. He was ordained priest on July 6, 1986 for Bukoba Diocese. He is a prelate of the Roman Catholic Church and diplomat of the Holy See. Since he became a Papal Nuncio in 2010, Archbishop Rugambwa has worked in São Tomé and Príncipe and Angola. On March 5, 2015, Pope Francis appointed him Papal Nuncio to Honduras, where he worked until his new appointmentArchbishop Rugambwa holds a degree in Canon Law. He was admitted to the Romebased Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy in 1987 to study diplomacy. He entered the diplomatic service of the Holy See on July 1, 1991 and served in the Pontifical diplomatic missions in Panama, the Republic of Congo, Pakistan, New Zealand and Indonesia. He was later named Sub- Secretary of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Migrants and Itinerants on June 28, 2007. episcopal consecration took place March 18, 2010 andCardinal Tarcisio Bertone was the principal consecrator, with bishops Pier Giorgio Micchiardi and the then Bishop of Bukoba Diocese Nestorius Timanywa, as principal co-consecrators. According to a Catholic Encyclopedia, a Papal Nuncio is an ordinary and permanent representative of the Pope, vested with both political and ecclesiastical powers, accredited to the court of a sovereign or assigned to a definite territory with the duty of safeguarding the interests of the Holy See. The special character of a Nuncio, as distinguished from other Papal envoys (such as legates, collectors), consists in this: that his office is specifically defined and limited to a definite nunciature, wherein he must reside. His mission is general, embracing all the interests of the Holy See. His office is also permanent, requiring the appointment of a successor when one incumbent is recalled and his mission includes both diplomatic and ecclesiastical powers