TANZANIA Cigarette Company (TCC) export talent programme has paid off as some 20 employees were sent to best workplaces around the world to gain international experience. The programme implemented jointly with Japan Tobacco International (JTI), aimed at sending employees to acquire more skills and further develop their careers globally. JTI said in a statement yesterday that the idea of exporting talent has been lucrative for employees of TCC since they are expanding their career exposure. “Our people drive our success – that’s why we’re dedicated to offering the most rewarding careers in the best workplaces around the world,” the statement read. One of the programme beneficiaries, Emiliana Felix, based in Dar es Salaam, said she was excited to be sent to Ethiopian as human resources personnel last year. “I could not wait to be in Addis Ababa. I was excited to meet with my new colleagues. I knew that my dream of working for JTI in other places had come true,” Ms Felix said. The only challenge she faced in Addis Ababa was a language barrier since Ethiopians are much tied to their local languages. “However a number of communication and effective speaking skills acquired at TCC did a lot of magic in addressing the challenge,” she said. Ms Felix joined TCC in 2009 as an intern in the HR department and she is currently on Short Term Assignment (STA) as the Human Resources Manager. Ms Felix said the programme has expanded her career exposure, skills and knowledge. “The programme should be extended to more employees so that they can also begin their journey towards success,” she said. Another employee, Ommary Ally, who is in Malawi under the same programme, said that working as an expatriate has enabled him to improve his performance management process. “I joined TCC fresh from the university and without any work experience…but today I am a different person—carrier-wise,” Mr Ally, who studied BSc. Agronomy is now a trusted HR officer, said. He said the programme enabled him to ensure individual employee performances are fairly evaluated with consistencies across the business. Mr Ally said that he has also managed to champion the leadership development journey for their management population and leading the compensation and benefit pillar of HR to excellence and stability. Through its international tobacco division, JTI, is the majority shareholder of TCC controlling 75 per cent. The country biggest cigarette maker is listed on Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. Its share was trading 17,000/- a piece yesterday. TCC boasts a proud history that reflects the way the country itself has re-shaped over the past half a century.