TANZANIA Industrial Research and Development Organization (TIRDO), has embarked on an initiative to equip ICT professionals with skills on managing the growing threats of cyber-attacks. During the training, TIRDO in collaboration with Unique Academy unveiled Cyber security V irtual Lab ‘ i-LAB’ for the first time in Tanzania which is an internet platform to enable cyber security trainees to have hands on Lab- based virtual training for cyber security professionals. “All the public and private institutions making wide use of ICT are prone to cyberattacks. Thus calling for the need to have high skilled certified professionals to manage the war against cybercrime,” said Prof Mkumbukwa Mtambo, the Director General of TIRDO in Dar es Salaam in an official closure of the two-day training workshop on cyber security awareness. The objective of the cyber security awareness workshop to seven ICT experts from the Ministry of Communication and TIRDO’s ICT staff was to provide government officials with cyber security skills to secure information assets in their organization. “The workshop also was geared to support and enable course participants to recognize the threats and vulnerabilities in their organizational information assets and respond to them appropriately including detailing the countermeasures that can be adopted,” he added. On his part, TIRDO’s Acting Director of ICT, Instrumentation and Technology Transfer Eng Juma Sebughe said the Cyber Security virtual Laboratory ‘i-LAB’ is the platform aligning with the International cyber security workforce framework. To provide a catalog of hands on labs that quantify user ability around incidence response. Malware analysis, exploitation, penetration testing and vulnerability assessment, reverse engineering, information assurance and cyber forensics. “With physical Laboratory facilities most of professionals have to travel to the training centers which are few and expensive, some are not able to spend more time in Labs, they being occupied by other duties,” he added. Unique Academy Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Sudhakaran Dhanapal, “When individual is subscribed to i- LAB services, gets enrolled for a program, receive credentials which last for six months.