THE national Under-18 basketball team has been invited to take part in a special tournament to commemorate Rwanda genocide, set to begin on April 2nd to 6th in Kigali, Rwanda. The team is made up of four players who will compete in a fascinating 3-a- side contest, which is becoming popular in basketball competition. Briefing members of the media yesterday in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) President Phares Magesa said the participation of the team in Rwandan contest was a good gesture towards development of basketball in the country. “This is another good platform to put the country on the world map as we are eager to promote the growth of this sport in the country,” Magesa said. He then urged the travelling men players to put a good fight which will enable them win the tournament and continue bringing pride to Tanzania through sports. On his part, the team’s coach Phineas Kahabi said they have had ample training session as such; doing well in the event is their objective. “We will represent the country and we know we have the duty of making sure that we play our cards well to stand up tall after the tournament,” he said. One of the travelling players Charles Albert also said he is aiming high to help his side win the tournament. “According to the level of experience and hardworking spirit among us, definitely we have no room to embrace defeat,” Albert confidently said. In a related development, Magesa said Tanzania will soon start hosting big basketball competition after completion of the project to build state of the art Indoor Stadiums. “We are at advanced stage as far as making sure that we have good basketball stadiums is concerned. This will give us chance to stage renowned world basketball events,” said Magesa. He therefore requested for potential sponsors who are willing to pump their money to facilitate construction of such stadiums to do so and promised that their brand names will be put on the stadium similar to what other countries in the world do. Magesa further revealed that final review of the mapping process of the five proposed stadiums to be built in different parts of Dar es Salaam is going on by the concerned authorities.