NATIONAL football team, Taifa Stars Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike said he is ready to face any team during the forthcoming 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals to be held in Egypt. Teams which have made it to Egypt will know their opponents on April 12th this year, when the draw for the biggest football event in the continent will be conducted. Stars had to wait until their last match in group L to sail into the finals courtesy of a deserved 3-0 win over Uganda Cranes at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. It will be the second appearance for the country’s senior team in the competition after making the debut in 1980 in Nigeria, when they eliminated Zambia 3-2 on aggregate win in their last match of the campaign. Amunike’s side finished second in the group with eight points whereas Uganda Cranes, who had already qualified prior to the Star’s match saw their unbeaten run ending at the fully packed 60,000 arena where history books were rewritten. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Amunike said he was happy to see that the words he uttered during his first press conference after landing the lucrative deal have come to reality. “I remember I told you (reporters) that my first priority here will be to take the national football team to AFCON finals. I said this because I believe in myself even though some people doubted if this could really come true,” Amunike said. He added that after cruising into the AFCON finals, again, the country should be united and supports the team in order to do well in Egypt. “Each team which has made it into the finals worked hard… there is no weak team hence we must be ready to face teams from the group we are going to find ourselves in,” the Nigerian coach said. Furthermore, Amunike reiterated that people should respect the national team because it is bigger than a club. “I know some people have their own players and question a lot if they do not see that player in the national team. We cannot invite all players to join the team, if that was possible, I could have been happy but we have limited number of players to form the national football team hence it is impossible to accommodate every player,” he said. He then urged people to have a positive mindset and believe that Tanzania squad has the needed quality to excel in Egypt. Amunike has turned his attention fully on preparations for the team ahead of the finals. The former Nigeria star Amunike became the second Nigerian from the Tunisia ’94 AFCON winning team, after Stephen Keshi with Togo, to qualify another African country for the continental soccer showpiece. The 48-year old admitted he is happy to make history with Tanzania, saying they now have to start making plans for a solid outing in Egypt.“It was an honour to have been given the opportunity to achieve great things with Tanzania football,” he said. “Qualification for the 2019 AFCON was always going to be a tough task but the hard work and belief the team had got us through. “I’m proud that what we set out to do as our first objective has been met. Now we plan for Egypt 2019 AFCON.” Back in 1980, the mission hero was Peter Tino, who scored a vital equaliser in Ndola, Zambia that earned Tanzania its first AFCON ticket. Tino commanded the striking force whereas goalie Juma Pondamali, defender Leodegar Tenga and Salim Amir cemented the defensive department. Tanzania won 2-1 in Dar es Salaam and forced a 1-1 draw in Zambia thereby stepping into the AFCON finals on a 3-2 aggregate triumph.