THE management of Young Africans has called upon their supporters countrywide to continue rallying behind their club despite losing 1-0 against Lipuli FC at Samora Stadium in Iringa over the weekend. Haruna Shamte scored the only goal of the match through an expertly taken set piece which went straight into the yawning goal getting the better of shot stopper Claude Kindoki despite him stretching to the full limit. It was the revenge from the hosts who suffered the same goal margin defeat at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam during the first round fixture. However, following the defeat, Yanga are now eight points clear at the summit of the table with 67 points after 28 games followed by Azam FC who have garnered 59 points from the similar number of clashes, while the defending champions Simba remain third on the ladder with 51 points. The victory enable Lipuli to sit fourth at the table with 44 points from 31 outings, three points above fifth placed KMC who have played 21 matches to claim 41 points. It was the third loss for Yanga this season after going down to Stand United (1-0), Simba (1- 0) and Lipuli (1-0). Speaking after the match, Yanga’s Communication Officer Dismas Ten said they still have a chance to win the championship at the end of the campaign. “Winning and losing is just part of the game and I am optimistic that we will turn things around very shortly,” Ten said. “Today (Saturday), we have lost the match and not our belief of winning the title. The most important thing is to come together as one family and continue to support our beloved team. Our supporters from every corner of the country should not lose hope from the recorded negative results,” said Ten. Assistant Coach, Noel Mwandila took charge of his side in absence of the team’s Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera who is reportedly taking care of Democratic Republic of Congo’s national team responsibilities. In other Mainland Premier League results recorded over the weekend, Mbeya City smashed Mbao FC 2-0 at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya while at Kaitaba Stadium, Kagera Sugar overcame Mtibwa Sugar by 2-1. At Karume Stadium in Musoma, Biashara United claimed a 1-0 win over the bottom- placed African Lyon who have obtained 22 points from 31-match outings. Also, at Mkwakwani Stadium, Coastal Union were held to a scoreless draw by Alliance FC. According to the available fixture, Simba will play back to back two games, hosting Mbao and Biashara United on March 31st and April 9th while Yanga’s next clash is on April 11th against Kagera Sugar. The league has since been halted to pave way for the national team, Taifa Stars who are scheduled host Uganda Cranes in the crucial 2019 Africa Cup of the Nation (AFCON) qualifying match to be played at the 60,000 capacity National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday.