PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday led thousands of mourners and high profile government officials in Dar es Salaam to pay last respects to late Director of Strategy and Programme Development at Clouds Media Group (CMG), Rugemalira Mutahaba. Although the programme started at 11am, mourners had gathered at the grounds as early as 6am only to fulfil their urge of seeing Ruge for the last time and bid him farewell. The 49-year-old father of five children died on Tuesday evening at a South African hospital, where he was admitted for several weeks undergoing kidney treatment. News of his death has since sent shockwaves across the country where he made a name as a mentor and motivational speaker. Several high profile government officials, including former President Jakaya Kikwete also joined mourners at the funeral in which most of them described him as a young, outstanding, soft-spoken, but vocal, creative and mentor to many in the media fraternity and entertainment industry. Ruge was co-founder of CMG and best known for his desire to inspire and empower young Tanzanians to find opportunities which, would uplift them and contribute positively to the development of their communities and nation. He was also the driving force behind Tanzania House of Talent(THT), a non-profit organisation he established in 2005 to promote music, dance and theatre lessons to young Tanzanians for enjoyment, education and employment opportunities. The company helped to kick-start the careers of famously-known musicians in the country. “He was a kind of a person, who wanted everyone to succeed no matter their background or level of education, the gap he left can be filled with each one of us because he has trained us well,” his eldest son Mwachi said, while reading his father’s eulogy. Ruge’s eldest son also described his father as a person, who wished to see people getting what they deserved not because they had been welleducated, but because it was what they deserved. Sobbingly, Mwachi revealed that for the way his father was accustomed to his work, they at times thought he loved his work related family than he loved them. His words led mourners gathered to break into tears. He further apologised on behalf of his father to those, who were wronged by him. It was not easy for a music artiste, Elias Barnabas, alias ‘Barnaba Boy’, who identified Ruge as his father. Forcing himself to speak, tears rolled down his face, he said if it were not for Ruge, “I would not have been who I am today.” “I was among the first products of THT before I was rejected twice when Ruge accorded me with a third chance, he fed me, dressed into his own clothes and nurtured me. Indeed, he was my father,” Barnabas cried bitterly, requesting that they open the casket for him to see his father. Ruge was the first child in a family of five children. He was born on May 1, 1970 in Brooklyn – New York – the United States. He studied primary school at Arusha School from Standard One to Six and then moved to Mlimani Primary School, where he completed his primary education. He joined Forodhani Secondary for O-Level and then Pugu High School for A-Level studies. He later joined San Jose University of Califonia for a BA degree in marketing and later a BA degree in Finance. While, he was studying in the US his fellow superior at CMG Joseph Kusaga was running a night club disco known as Clouds Disco. Therefore, Ruge became the sole supplier of various equipment to run the night club. When he returned to Tanzania after completing his studies he joined forces with Kusaga and established Clouds Media in Arusha City. A religious leader for Arise and Shine Ministry in Tanzania, Apostle Boniface Mwamposa, who led special prayers at the service, noted that family members and friends should accept that Ruge was not physically with them anymore, so that the peace of God should befall upon them. “The last time I spoke by phone to Ruge, while he was in South Africa, we prayed together for God’s will to be fulfilled. Let us believe that one day we will meet with him again,” he noted. “When you are happily settled in our Lord’s home, don’t forget your profession. I know and believe you are sufficiently innovative and I am sure you will find a way to communicate with us,” said IPP Executive Chairman, Mr Reginald Mengi. His friend for 25 years and business partners, Kusaga, said when they established Mawingu Studio many did not support their idea at the time engaging in music was thought to be a disgrace in society. But, with focus and determination they managed to transform the perception of music in the country and now a lot of youths are making millions from the career. “His legacy will live on forever. He was behind a lot of political and social campaigns, including Zinduka! Malaria haikubaliki and Fursa Twendzetu,” he said . Among the leaders, who paid tribute to Ruge, included Minister for Information, Sports, Arts and Culture, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment), January Makamba, Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC), Paul Makonda and Mikumi MP Joseph Haule alias Prof Jay. Family members and the body of Ruge are expected to leave for Bukoba, Kagera Region, today, where he will be laid to rest at his family’s graves in Kijiru on Monday.