THE Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Water has taken issue with what it described as unfriendly taxes levied on livestock traders at Namanga border market. The Committee now wants a thorough review and scrapping off of the nuisance taxes imposed on the traders. Speaking separately while on tour of the border market at Eworendeke village on Wednesday the committee members observed that the high levies will not stop the traders from smuggling cows and goats outside the country through porous borders. Iringa Special Seats MP (CCM), Ms Ritta Kabati, warned that the 785m/-border market, could soon become a white elephant as traders will continue smuggling their livestock through the Namanga border. “If we don’t do away with these fines the traders will be left with no option other than smuggling their livestock to Kenya and South Sudan,” she warned. On his part, Kiteto MP Mr Emmanuel John Papian challenged the government to review the guidelines that govern the tax and levies imposed on the livestock traders. “This facility was built solely with the intention of improving the lives of Maasai communities living in Longido District, however this doesn’t seem to be the case as traders are now forced to contend with these nuisance taxes to earn a living through selling of their cows and goats,” offered the Kiteto MP. The MPs call to review and do away with the levies followed an earlier concern raised by Mr Motika Kasosi, one of the livestock traders and a Ward Councilor of Olbomba who said the levies were hurting their business. According to Mr Kasosi, the livestock traders are now parting ways with 35,000/-for a single cow sold to neighboring countries and 9,000/-for a goat either sold to Kenya and South Sudan. He alleged that out of the charges, 1,000/- and another 500/- goes to Longido District Commissioner’s office, while a huge chunk goes to the central government. But in his rejoinder, Permanent Secretary in the Livestock and Fisheries Ministry, Prof, Elisante Ole Gabriel maintained that the tax imposed on the livestock traders was an export fee that was legally provided for in law. He however assured that the Ministry was in the process of reviewing some of the guidelines that affect the livestock traders along the Tanzania- Kenya border. Longido is mainly inhabited by the pastoralists, Maasai tribe and agro-pastoral Arusha people. The major land use system in the area is livestock keeping, in which the indigenous ruminant livestock breeds include cattle, goats and sheep. Early this year, Longido District Commissioner (DC), Mr Frank Mwaisumbe confiscated and auctioned livestock worth over 8mn/-who were en route to Kenya. Livestock smuggling was denying the government billions of shillings in taxes.