THE Court of Appeal yesterday ordered the file of trial of Chadema National Chairman, Freeman Mbowe and Tarime Urban MP Ester Matiko be sent back to the High Court for appeal hearing on the cancellation of their bail. This was after a decision by Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Mwanaisha Kwariko to dismiss the appeal lodged by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), who was challenging the refusal by the High Court not to hear the appeal of the two senior leaders of the opposition party. In his appeal, the DPP argued that the High Court Judge had erred in law and facts by scheduling and calling for hearing Mbowe and Matiko’s appeal in contravention of section 362(1) of Criminal Procedures Act (CPA), 1985. Principal State Attorneys Faraja Nchimbi and Paul Kadushi, as well as State Attorneys Wankyo Simon and Salim Msemo, for the DPP, had stated that the two leaders contravened the provision for having filed the appeal without attaching a copy of proceedings, order or judgment sought to be challenged. They also argued that the High Court had not given the prosecution sufficient time to hear the appeal lodged by the politicians, thus occasioning a serious miscarriage of justice. The state attorneys, thus, requested the court to “strike out” the pending appeal before the High Court. In their judgement delivered by High Court of Tanzania Deputy Registrar Silyvester Kainda, the Justices of the Court of Appeal noted that there was no dispute that the Chadema leaders’ appeal was filed before the High Court under a certificate of urgency and was not accompanied by copy of proceedings. However, they said, the High Court was seized with a handwritten copy of the trial court’s proceedings and upon consent of the parties those proceedings were availed to them and they had agreed to proceed with the hearing of the appeal. “Our careful reading of section 365(1) of the CPA shows that since the High Court Judge did not dismiss the appeal summarily we cannot fault him that he did not comply with the (provision) having ordered that the parties be notified to appear for necessary orders and, or hearing,” the Justices said. They noted further that since the parties did not have the typed version of the proceedings and being aware that the appeal was brought under the certificate of extreme urgency, by consent, the High Court Judge availed them with the copy of handwritten proceedings to expedite the hearing of appeal. “This in our considered view was due to the exercise of judicial discretion bestowed upon him under section 362(1) of the CPA and not otherwise,” they ruled in favour of Mbowe and Matiko, who were represented by defence counsel Abdallah Safari, Rugemeleza Nshalla, Peter Kibatala and Jeremia Mtobesya. The Justices concluded that since DPP’s complaints were remedied and the parties availed with the complete typed trial court proceedings, the High Court Judge had fully complied with the provision of section 365(1) of CPA. On November 23, 2018, the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court ordered Mbowe and Matiko to be remanded after cancelling their bail in a sedition criminal trial they were facing after finding them violating bail conditions, including failing to attend court sessions as required. Immediately thereafter, the defence counsel hurriedly filed an appeal to the High Court to oppose such court action. However, when was called on for hearing, the appeal was greeted with some preliminary objections presented by the prosecution for being incompetent. In a ruling delivered on November 30, 2018, High Court Judge Sam Rumanyika overruled two of the grounds and ordered the hearing of appeal to proceed. Thereafter, the prosecution decided to take the matter to the Court of Appeal for further adjudication.