MINISTER for Health, Community Development Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu has directed the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) to reduce the time it takes to settle financial claims lodged by accredited health facilities to at least 30 days for smooth delivery of services to patients. Ms Mwalimu issued the directive during the launch of a new private clinic building at CCBRT in Dar es Salaam yesterday. "Among the challenges observed, include NHIF reimbursement to health facilities...I have already directed NHIF to settle financial claims within 30 days. “If these people have already delivered services to your customers what is deterring you from paying them on time?” asked Ms Mwalimu. She urged NHIF to stop hiding behind theumbrella of verification as delays were hindering people from accessing quality services. "I am aware that the law provides for 60 days, but if it is a barrier for successful operations, why don't we reduce it to 45 days. "Delays have a negative impact on medical supplies, the morale of health providers to serve NHIF members and the timely provision of salary and incentives to health facility staff. At the end of the day, we want these facilities to see NHIF as noble partners," she noted. Ms Mwalimu further stressed a need for members of the public to register with NHIF as the only easiest way to access specialised health services particularly to low income earners. According to her, in the next two to three weeks they intend to introduce individual health insurance packages with NHIF, which will allow a person to access ordinary and specialised services at about 300,000/- annually. Commenting on the above by phone, NHIF Public Relations Manager Angela Mziray said they had received a directive from the minister and pledged to work on it. CCBRT Chief Executive Officer Brenda Msangi said the private health facility provided an option for the middle class with an ability to pay for services and the money they paid enabled the vulnerable to access similar services at the facility. "With this social enterprise model our mission is to serve Tanzania's most vulnerable regardless of their ability to pay. The clinic can serve up to 50,000 patients annually," said Ms Msangi