TANZANIA’S BR Puri and Company Limited and British’s Howden insurance brokers have partnered to establish Howden Puri insurance broker company in a bid to extend insurance services in the country. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday night during the launch of the company. The Chief Executive Officer of Howden, David Howden said joining forces to establish new insurance broker means Howden Puri is well placed to service local businesses as well as the international community in Tanzania and East Africa in general. “This is an excellent partnership for Howden in Africa and we are delighted to be working with BR Puri. As one of the market leaders in Tanzania, there strong client focus makes them a natural match for Howden,” he said. Commenting on the event, Chairman of new Howden Puri insurance broker, Arun Puri said BR Puri and Company Limited founded in 1950’s as one of the first insurance brokerage in Tanzania. “I am convinced that the combination of our local knowledge and experience and Howden’s expertise as well as global reach will be of the great benefit both to our existing and new clients,” he said. On his part the Howden Puri’s Chief Executive Officer, Umesh Puri said as a forward-looking broking firm in Tanzania, the goal is to actively explore new insurance products and pave the way for innovation in the market. “Tanzania was selected as the first direct investment for Howden in Africa because we believe that recent initiatives undertaken by the regulator are encouraging and the overall outlook for the country is positive,” he said. The British High Commissioner to Tanzania, Ms Sarah Cooke said the vision of the two companies joining forces is one of those steps in Tanzania’s development in provision of insurance services. According to her, August last year, the British Prime Minister, Theresa May visited South Africa, Nigeria and Kenya. During the visits, in Cape Town, she announced that she wants United Kingdom to be the first G7’s number one investor in Africa by 2022. The Prime Minister announced that she wants Britain’s private sector companies to take the lead in investing the African economies.