THE Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) has set aside 11bn/- for the initial repair of the stretch that connects Loduare and Golini and points within the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA). The amount will also be spent on repairing an important road that descends to the crater. NCAA’s Conservator Dr Fred Manongi said here on Monday that the repair of the 88kilometer gravel stretch will spare tour drivers and tourists the hustles of accessing attractions found within the NCA. “Tourists have over the years been encountering challenges such as vehicle breakdowns while driving on this stretch, thus the need of embarking on some repairs,” said the NCAA boss. The road, which also connects NCA and Serengeti National Park, has which has for years been a subject of complaints from tour operators and tourists alike, according to Dr Manongi. He appealed to driver guides to be extra careful when descending the steep slopes to the crater, especially on rainy seasons. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation had initially earlier put a restriction on the planned maintenance of the gravel road, with the UN body insisting that the proposed rehabilitation will tamper with the area’s ecosystem. However, in 2017, the UN world heritage body had given a green light the repair of the stretch saying it was not likely to interfere with the flora and fauna in the area. The UN world heritage body had its reservations about the rehabilitation of the dusty road known to the conservancy. Unesco insisted that the proposed maintenance of the stretch will tamper with the ecosystem in the area. NCAA is said to be coughing out a whopping Sh3billion every two years for periodic and routine maintenance of the stretch, an undertaking which has proven to be costly affair for the authority. “The completion on the rehabilitation of the notorious stretch is likely to boost tourism prospects around the area, hence ending the complaints by tour operators,” added Dr Manongi.