NATIONAL Under-17 football team, Serengeti Boys is in Rwanda ready to compete in the Under- 17 Mini Tournament organised by Rwandese Association Football Federation (Ferwafa). The tournament which will involve three nations, is scheduled to kick off today at Stade de Kigali. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Information and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, Serengeti Boys jetted in Kigali yesterday with a delegation of 23 players ahead of the tournament. However, report from Ferwafa disclosed that Serengeti Boys were scheduled to jet in Kigali on Monday. Serengeti Boys, under the tutelage of Coach Oscar Mirambo, will kick off their campaign tomorrow against Cameroon Under-17 side alias The Lions before the tournament ends on April 4th with Rwanda’s Junior Wasps and Tanzania locking horns. The team which travelled to Kigali comprised the following players -- Shaban Hassan, Mwinyi Abdallah, Zubery Foba, Ally Hamis, Pascal Gaudence, Ben Anthony, Mohamed Omary, Dominic Pauline, Mustapha Rashid, Morice Michael, Agiri Aristide and Edson Jeremia. Others are Tepsi Evance, Charles Herman, Kelvin Pius, Edmund Godfrey, Salum Ally, Arafat Hussein, Misungwi Boniface, Ladaki Juma, Jefferson Mwaikambo, Benard Castory and Omary Jumanne. Serengeti Boys and Cameroon will use the Under-17 mini tournament as part of preparations for the U-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals to be staged in Dar es Salaam from April 14th to April 28th this year. According to Ndimbo, immediately after the Rwanda tournament, Serengeti Boys will leave Kigali for Dar es Salaam for their final tune up ahead of the AFCON U-17 finals. Serengeti Boys will kick off its campaign by welcoming Nigeria at the National Stadium, while Cameroon will battle it with Guinea at the Azam Complex on the following day. The best two teams at the CAF U-17 AFCON that qualify for the semifinals will directly book a place in the U-17 World Cup to take place in Brazil. Serengeti Boys recently participated at the UEFA ASSIST U-17 International tournament in Antalya, Turkey. The event featured teams from three continents – Angola, Cameroon, Guinea, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda from the Confederation of African Football (CAF); Australia, which belongs to the Asian Football Confederation (AFC); and Belarus, Montenegro and Turkey, representing UEFA. UEFA ASSIST thus provides support for member associations and confederations in four specific areas – education and knowledge-sharing, development of youth football, supporting infrastructure projects and assisting UEFA’s member associations.