SIMBA SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems has urged fans to massively flock at the National Stadium on Saturday for their last group stage match of CAF Champions League. The home crowd support has been a vital weapon in Simba’s home victories against Al Ahly, JS Saoura, Nkana and Mbabane Swallows. Simba bank on the home support in their race for the CAF Group stage after suffering a third consecutive away defeat to JS Saoura who handed 2-0 loss at Stade 20 Août 1955 in Bechar, Algeria over the weekend. Simba host AS Vita from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) on Saturday in the city knowing that a win is the only option which can guarantee them a slot into the last eight of the biggest continental club football competition. It will be a decisive match for the country’s flag bearers who eye to continue their objective of collecting maximum three points from home soil having excelled in doing that against JS Saoura (3-0) and Al Ahly (1-0) with AS Vita the next opponent. All four teams in group D have played five matches, winning two games apiece, hence making the category very tricky such that the t w o w i n - n e r s t o s t e p i n t o t h e n e x t round will emerge on the last day of the last 16-games. As it stands, JS Saoura top the group with 8 points followed by Al Ahly who have pocketed 7 points while AS Vita are third with 7 points as well. Simba tail with six points hence all teams have an advantage to go through into the quarter finals of the hot contest. Aussems side is the only team that have scored a few goals (4) in their group and conceded 12 goals in the process. On his instagram page, Aussems wrote “Performance too average to expect positive results yesterday (Saturday). Despite this, Simba will play a real final next Saturday against one of the favorites of this Champions League.” He went further urging fans to storm the 60,000 capacity stadium in their large numbers to encourage them as they aim to write history. In all the previous Champions League matches that Simba have played at home, the turnout of supporters has been overwhelming which in one way or the other has immensely contributed the team to do well. However, it is still unclear whether Simba’s Ugandan striker Emmanuel Okwi who missed the Algerian trip due to injury, will be fit to take on the DRC club. In Algeria, Simba looked vulnerable at their midfield department thereby gifting the Algerians freedom to control the pack and they excelled to launch numerous danger balls into their opponent’s territory.