VICE-PRESIDENT, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, has urged residents of Shinyanga Region to join health insurance funds so that they can access treatment easily whenever they fall sick. The VP made the remark here yesterday during a rally as part of the activities of her tour of the region to inspect development activities since the fifth phase government came into power. She said that health insurance has been very useful to majority of people who joined the scheme because it is affordable and the amount paid covers six family members. “While the government is working on challenges facing health insurance, I urge all of you to join the funds because it allows members to access medical services up to referral hospitals,” said Ms Suluhu. Ms Samia said that the fifth phase government has managed to construct more health facilities across the country to ensure availability of health services hence reduce the number of deaths due to lack of services. She said that of the constructed health facilities 67 district hospitals have been built in the country from the year 2015 to date. Ms Suluhu expressed dismay over the increasing number of early pregnancies in the society, a situation which endangers their health especially during giving birth. The Vice-President asked community in Shinyanga to change their behaviour which has resulted in the increase of HIV by observing health advice, including going for testing to establish their health status before getting married. According to the VP, HIV prevalence rate for Shinyanga Region stands at 5.9 per cent. She added that most people infected with HIV are youth and children between the ages of 14 to 25; most of them are in the productive group. Ms Suluhu said that when more people will be infected with HIV, they will fail to engage in productive activities properly, posing challenges to the government's vision of transforming the country into an industrialised economy. Earlier, the Deputy Minister for Local Government and Regional Administration, Mr Mwita Waitara said that the government has provided about 6.6bn/- to the region to improve health infrastructure so that the community can get proper health services. He said that Shinyanga Regional Referral Hospital which is under construction will become operational at the end of this year. Mr Waitara said that it is the aim of the government to ensure that the community manage to get treatment near their places, a situation which is expected to reduce deaths.