AZAM FC Head Coach, Iddi Cheche has expressed determination to win the Azam Sports Federation Cup, ahead of their quarter final game against Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba stadium today. A contingent of Azam players and officials arrived in Bukoba town on Tuesday by bus while their experienced player Aggrey Moris arrived later on the same day by plane. “We are determined to win the glittering Azam Sports Federation Cup. No team will stop us from realizing the dream. Kagera Sugar is a good side, but my boys are in a high spirit to win the match,” boasted Cheche as his team started light training at Kaitaba stadium yesterday. Azam Sports Federation Cup is vacant after holders Mtibwa Sugar were eliminated in early stages. Morris scored the third goal to enable the national soccer team -Taifa Stars to qualify for the AFCON 2019 finals to be staged in Egypt beating Uganda Cranes 3-0 at the national stadium, in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. Meanwhile, Kagera Regional club champions, Chandimu FC arrived safely in Katavi town on Tuesday afternoon ready for their tomorrow opening match against Halmashauri Mji FC. Meanwhile, contingent of 20 Yanga players and eight officials left Dar es Salaam yesterday to Mwanza ahead of their Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) quarter finals match against Alliance FC lined up tomorrow at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Yanga stepped into the ASFC last eight after a hard fought 1-0 victory over Lindi based Namungo FC, thanks to a solitary goal netted by Congolese striker, Herritier Makambo. Speaking prior to the trip yesterday, the team’s Communication Officer Dismas Ten said all necessary preparations for the team to travel to Mwanza are complete. “As you know, we are active contenders in two major competitions -- the Mainland Premier League and ASFC… our target is to excel in both contests,” Ten said. Also, the club’s Coordinator Hafidh Saleh said that the club has gained over 60m/- from the ongoing campaign whereby members and fans contribute money to support smooth running of the team. He said the amount has been generated from contributions made this month (March). In another development, Yanga have been slapped with a 6m/- fine by the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), allegedly for misconduct during their league match against KMC held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. According to the TPBL Chairman Steven Mnguto, Boniface, the Jangwani Street club has been fined because they used a different door to enter the venue and refused to use their dressing room, which is in accordance to the regulations. Mnguto said it was unfortunate that clubs have been repeating same mistakes, saying the body will review the regulation next season and come up with even tougher disciplinary action(s).