THE TIB Development Bank in collaboration with the Local Government Loan Board has initiated a two-day workshop on preparing and financing Local Government Authorities (LGA)’s projects. The workshop that includes procurement officers, engineers, economists, planning officers, social development officers was launched here by Arusha Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Mr Richard Kwitega, stressing on the attentiveness of the participants in order to acquire expertise on how to write bankable project proposals. Participants are from district councils in the Northern Zone regions of Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Manyara and Tanga as well as from Shinyanga Municipal Council who missed out during the Lake Zone training. Mr Kwitega said regional secretariats as well as municipal and town councils have employees with degrees and master degrees but fail to produce bankable project proposals. He said the district councils’ think tanks would do justice to the country if they write good project proposals as there are a lot of funds from Treasury as well as TIB Development Bank. He called upon the officers to direct their minds on the government industrialisation agenda, saying if they present bankable proposals they could construct more industries, increase employment and revenue. The TIB Development Bank Director of Planning, Strategy and Corporate Affairs, Mr Patrick Mongela, said the bank was happy to come with the initiative to train LGA senior officials countrywide, so that each district council has experts who can write project proposals on both technical and financial aspects. This is the first Business Development workshop to be held in Arusha, where both institutions (TIB Development Bank and Local Government Loan Board) present their financial products to the audience of LGA senior officials. It covers topics on project finance for LGA projects such as utilities, markets, bus terminals, industrial areas, survey of land and issues of plots as well as health centres. It looks at compliance with loan application requirements, TIB project preparation and preparation of the proposals. In 2018, TIB conducted similar workshops in Mbeya and Mwanza regions where a total of 300 LGA officials were trained on the same subject.