SIMBA Sports Club passionate and ardent fan, Peter Edwin Kiliki (36), died while celebrating the 2-1 victory Simba posted over AS V ita at the National Stadium in Dar Es Salaam on Saturday night. Peter was a Boda Boda rider residing at Kawajense Street here in Mpanda municipality of Katavi Region died while swimming to celebrate the victory Simba snatched over the Congolese, AS V ita . His father, who identified himself as Edwin Kiliki, a Mtapenda Primary School teacher at Nsimbo Council, told the “Daily News” that his son was an ardent fan of Simba and was buried yesterday at Kazima grave yard here in Mpanda and his funeral was attended by large number of mourners . Narrating the sad story the deceased’s father said on that material day, his son left his house at around 5:00 pm to Marandu Bar at Kawajense–Makaburini area and started drinking beer while waiting to watch the match “ My son was under the influence of alcohol when his team Simba SC scored the winning goal …. It was at that moment my son who was overwhelmed with joy, jumped into the swimming pool … he had never had any swimming lesson in his entire life. Though he was shouting for help his colleagues who were also under the influence of alcohol thought he was rejoicing ….. he finally lost his life, “ added Mr Kiliki. The deceased brother, Gabriel Makundi, who is a Young Africans’ passionate fan, said the death of Peter is a big loss to the family and prayed for his soul to rest in peace. Saturday night, Simba Sport Club “The Msimbazi Reds” qualified for the CAF Champions League after a hard fought 2-1 victory over Congolese giants AS V ita at National Stadium in Dar Es Salaam on Saturday night. Simba reached beyond the quarterfinals of the then All Africa Club Cup Championship at present known as the Champions League in 1974, 45 years ago when they were stopped in the semifinals by Egypt’s Mehala el Kubra in Alexandria. It was the Zambian mid fielder maestro Clatous Chama who netted the last gasp winner, after Mohamed Hussein cancelled out Kazadi Kasengu’s opener.