KISARAWE District Commissioner (DC) Ms Jokate Mwegelo has urged students in girls’ secondary schools located near Ikorongo/Grumeti game reserves in Mara Region to cultivate confidence and nurse big dreams in life. The DC made the remarks over the weekend during the latest schoolgirl’s empowerment session organised and hosted by  Grumeti Fund. “You need to have confidence and big dreams. Plus, goals and discipline so that you can make significant contributions in the society,” Ms Mwegelo told over 500 female students of Sizaki and Kunzugu secondary schools in Bunda District at the weekend. “I have come here to present myself as an example for these girls; to let them know how I managed to be where I am today. I have told them that our problem is lack of confidence and must attempt to do things that will show our value to the world,” she remarked. Grumeti Fund also hosted a similar event in the neighbouring Serengeti District which involved nearly 600 girls from Rigicha, Issenye, Nagusi and Robanda secondary schools. The company donated special sanitary pads to last one year. The DC commended it, saying the pads will enable the students attend classes smoothly. On her part Ms Frida Mollel, the Head of Community Development Department at Grumeti Fund said they were now prioritising the issue of sanitary pads in schools located in villages bordering Ikorongo/ Grumeti game reserves in Western Serengeti. “We have a budget for the sanitary pads for 2017, 2018 and 2019 after realising that lack of the facilities was one of the obstacles for the development of girls’ education in villages,” Ms Frida said. More than 3,500 female students from Bunda and Serengeti districts would benefit from the empowerment session programme between 2017 and 2019 with the aim of helping to achieve their academic dreams, according to Ms Frida. Grumeti Fund supports conservation and community development activities in Western Serengeti. Some local communities who used to depend on poaching are now supporting conservation initiatives, according to officials and local leaders in Serengeti and Bunda