THE Open University of Tanzania (OUT) and Swiss Distance University of Applied Science (SDUAS) of Switzerland are conducting research on how to collaborate to improve distance learning through a digital system. Speaking during a public lecture at OUT’s Dar es Salaam Campus, Deputy Vice Chancellor of OUT, Prof Cornelia Muganda, said the facility was discussing with Switzerland’s Open University to improve distance learning through a digital system. She said already the technology of distance learning through the digital system was being applied by OUT although there were some challenges hindering the use of the technology, including unreliable access to internet especially in rural areas, where the network was unstable. “Using this new technology in distance learning in our country is beneficial because it is saving time and it is easy to send learning materials to students through internet compared to a paperwork system of using a post office.” She said if the universities collaborated to improve the modern system of distance learning through the digital system it would help OUT gain experience and new skills from Swiss Distance University. According to her, through collaboration they will start using live video lectures. The Moodle will enable distance learners to enjoy lectures in visual contact with their lecturers. OUT professor of psychology and Unesco chairman on personalised and adoptive learning technologies, Dr Per Bergamin, said nowadays technology had advanced worldwide and people were enjoying digital life, which was an opportunity to improve distance learning system. He said, through this the two universities would share experience and skills that would be helpful in improving a distance learning system through the use of modern technology. For his part, OUT lecturer, Dr Christopher Awinia, said through research and identifying challenges they were facing using the digital system for distance learning would be helpful to get the best system of imparting knowledge to students. “Nowadays students use their smart phones in everything. They use social media for discussion and they download learning materials. So, if the system is adopted it will be helpful and enable students to study without interrupting their daily activities,” he said