Confederation of African Football (CAF) has congratulated all 24 countries that have qualified to play in the Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt. CAF also expressed gratitude to the countries for making it a huge success. Satisfied over the widespread enthusiasm surrounding the qualifiers, the CAF President, Ahmad Ahmad expressed, on behalf of the Executive Committee and on his own behalf expressed, “satisfaction over the quality of the qualifiers and confidence in the new format of the AFCON.” President Ahmad thanked all the countries that participated in the qualifiers and congratulated the 24 countries that qualified for the final tournament. He also extended his sincere congratulations to all the officials who ensured the smooth running of the competition over a long period of time, preserving the status of the event. The qualifiers for the AFCON, Egypt 2019, were successfully concluded over the weekend with unprecedented excitement across the continent. The matches, since the start of the qualifiers, were met with the exceptional enthusiasm of the fans and the public who used the competition to express their passion for their national teams and idols, culminating in 24 countries securing their places in the newly-expanded tournament. The finals will take place in Egypt from June 21 to July 19 and will be completely new and attractive on many fronts. Meanwhile, Uganda Cranes are still reeling from 3-0 loss to the national football team, Taifa Stars in their last group L match of Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier clash. Uganda Cranes were humiliated, torn apart, humbled, silenced as well as shocked by the loss at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and Head Coach Sébastien Desabre was disappointed with result and performance against Tanzania. A low drive by forward Simon Msuva, a calmly converted penalty by Erasto Nyoni and a brilliant header by Aggrey Morris were the three goals that dumped Uganda. This was the first loss for Uganda Cranes in the qualification campaign, with the only goals conceded as well in six matches. “I am totally disappointed with the performance and final result. We gave maximum display in the game but lost terribly. Since we had qualified, we played with some players who had not been used before and this was the opportunity to assess the new players. “Also, we rested players with yellow cards like Aucho Khalid and Murushid Jjuuko and we could not risk to play them since we needed our full strength team during the first game of the AFCON finals in Egypt,” Desabre said. Desabre kick started the game with unfamiliar faces, giving Ethiopian based utility player Kirizestom Ntambi his first senior debut. Ntambi partnered KCCA’s Denis Timothy Awany in central defence with trust vested in Henry Patrick Kaddu to lead alongside the flank players Allan Kyambadde (left) and Emmanuel Okwi (right). Tadeo Lwanga was deployed in central midfield as the blocking shield ahead of Aucho Khalid. Croatian based Faruku Miya and Vipers’ stylish midfielder Moses Waiswa provided the other offensive options. In the second half, all the three changes were executed. Milton Karisa, Muhammed Shaban and Edrisa Lubega were introduced for Okwi, Kyambadde and Kaddu respectively. The French coach will, however, quickly return to the famous drawing board less than three months to assemble a good side that will not only make the numbers at AFCON 2019 finals but also compete favourably. Despite the huge step back in the last match, Uganda Cranes ended the qualification campaign aloft of group L with 13 points. Tanzania is the other qualified country with eight points, while Lesotho and Cape Verde (both bowed out) with five and six points respectively.