THE water Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, has directed Regional Administrative Secretaries (RASs) to closely monitor the newly established Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) for the agency to perform efficiently. He gave the directive here yesterday during a working meeting with RASs from across the country, saying regional authorities would play a vital role in making the new agency operate well. “Regional Administrative Secretaries are expected to play a key role in monitoring RUWASA operations,” said the minister while opening a two-day meeting which was organised by the water ministry. Prof Mbarawa said the ministry convened the meeting to enable them to be conversant with the recently reviewed Water Service and Sanitation Act, saying the amendment in the Act had provided a legal framework for the establishment of RUWASA. “The government set up RUWASA to ensure that all the people in rural areas get access to water services,” said the minister. Prof Mbarawa explained further that the establishment of RUWASA was part of the steps taken by the government to bolster water supply services and that the other step was to separate the water component from the Irrigation Department. “The separation was aimed at helping the ministry to focus on water supply because water is life,” he said. Prof Mbarawa further noted that the water ministry established a performance contract system for water supply and sewerage authorities for the authorities to set and attain their main goals annually. The Permanent Secretary in the Water Ministry, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, pointed out that the two-day working meeting would take through Regional Administrative Secretaries in the RUWASA structure. “The RUWASA structure is currently in final stages for endorsement by the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee,” said the Permanent Secretary. The Chairperson for Regional Secretaries in the country, Ms Rehema Madenge, pledged maximum cooperation to the ministry in monitoring of RUWASA, saying the regional authorities would continue to be an integral part of the management of water projects and RUWASA.