THE Court of Appeal has refused to review its decision on payments of over 1bn/- to a local IT consulting company, FTS Service Limited, by Vodacom Tanzania Limited. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Rehema Mkuye and Ferdinand Wambali ruled in favour of the local company after dismissing the complaint, Vodacom Tanzania Limited, that the court’s decision is a nullity. In the decision sought to be reviewed, the Court of Appeal rejected the application lodged by Vodacom Tanzania Limited, seeking orders for stay of execution of an award decree for the payments to FTS Company. During the hearing of an application for review, Vocadom Tanzania Limited counsel, Gasper Nyika faulted the court to refer in its ruling section 74(1)(f) of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC), as applicable law for one to appeal against the High Court’s decision to allow the filing of the arbitral award. He had also argued that it was wrong for the court to rule that the award could not be enforced as a decree in terms of section 17 of the Arbitration Act unless it is converted into a decree by the court’s order. In their ruling delivered in Dar es Salaam recently, the Justices of the Court of Appeal agreed with the line of arguments by Mr Nyika, who was also supported by FTS Services Limited counsel Michael Ngalo, on the court’s reference to section 74(1) (f) of the CPC. They pointed out that such a reference was an error as the provision dealt with appeals to the High Court from the Resident Magistrates’ Court and the District Court, which had no jurisdiction to entertain matters pertaining to arbitration under the Arbitration Act. The justices were, however, quick to point out that such an error had not caused any injustice to Vodacom Company because the court’s final decision had the effect of striking out of the application for stay of execution for lack of supporting requisite not of appeal against the decision of the High Court. “We think, Mr Ngalo is right in his submission in support of the position we have taken concerning the issue of injustice. We hasten to add that there is a miscarriage of justice if the error leads to a grossly unfair outcome in judicial proceeding which is not the case in the present matter,” they said. As regards the holding that the arbitral award could not be enforced as a decree unless converted into a decree by an order of the court, the Justices were of the view that such complaint could not be a matter which is a subject of review by the court. “We have no hesitation to state that the court did not make any firm holding on whether the award was properly filed or not and whether it was amenable to be set aside or otherwise. To embark on deep discussion of this matter may prejudice the rights of parties to be determined at later stage,” they ruled. Before the High Court, Vodacom Tanzania Limited claimed that the award was unfairly given by the Arbitral Tribunal comprised of the Court of Appeal Justice John Mrosso (rtd), High Court Judge Thomas Mihayo (rtd) and President of Tanganyika Law Society, seasoned counsel Charles Rwechungura. Then High Court Judge Kassim Nyangarika dismissed the petition, challenging the award of June 9, 2014 in favour of FTS Services, ruling that the arbitration process was fair and justified. He ruled that there was no errors whatsoever on face of the award for it to be set aside as suggested by Vodacom Company. FTS Service Limited had earlier sued Vodacom Tanzania Limited before the Tribunal for violating terms of their agreement and claimed compensation for damages due to illegal termination of their business partnership. The IT Consulting Company had entered into Agreement with Vodacom Tanzania Limited as Vodacom Business Partner, for promoting and selling what is known as converged services and Vodacom Business Solutions in return for commissions in June, 2012. The main role of the claimant company was to prospect customers and obtains sales orders for a complete range of Vodacom Enterprise solutions including account management as well as debt collections. Records show that the wrongly terminated contract was to continue for an initial period of two years and, thereafter, would have been automatically renewed for an indefinite period. But the respondent terminated the agreement unjustifiably. It is alleged that, barely within 6 months of the agreement, Vodacom issued an invalid termination notice which apart from being time barred but it was also wrongly served to the claimant by email on January 7, 2013 contrary to what was stipulated in the agreement. Efforts by the claimant tried to have the above decision reconsidered against unlawful termination of the contract were all in vain. As a result, the IT local firm had no other option that to resort for legal action and referred the matter in dispute for arbitration. In their award, the arbitrators ruled, among others, that the respondent acted in breach of the agreement. The arbitrators in their award ruled, “The claimant, therefore, was wrongfully terminated and was entitled for compensation on damages suffered as the result of the above illegal act.”