PRESIDENT John Magufuli has expressed delight over the enthusiastic patriotism and unity that Tanzanians displayed last Sunday when the national football team, Taifa Stars, trounced Uganda Cranes 3-0 and qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) 2019 finals slated for Egypt in June, this year. “Tanzanians from all walks of life displayed strong patriotism and unity during the soccer match between Tanzania and Uganda; our country will achieve a lot if we demonstrate the same spirit in other areas,” President Magufuli said in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Dr Magufuli made the remarks at the State House where he had invited for luncheon football players of Taifa Stars, who steered the country into the AFCON finals as well as professional boxer Hassan Mwakinyo, sports leaders and other stakeholders. The Head of State was glad that Tanzanians put aside their differences and rallied behind the national soccer team which ultimately qualified for the elite continental tournament after 39 years. The last time Taifa Stars participated in the“I have been touched and moved by the victory and patriotism shown by Tanzanians; we should continue to be united as a country just like we did yesterday (Sunday),” President Magufuli remarked cheerfully. During the occasion, Dr Magufuli directed that all players of the national team be allocated plots of land in the designated capital. The same applies to boxer Mwakinyo and legendary footballer Peter Tino who scored the lone goal to steer Tanzania into the finals way back in 1980. President Magufuli also provided 1bn/- for preparations of the national under 17 soccer team Serengeti boys ahead of the U-17 Africa Cup of Nations to be held in Tanzania next month. He also awarded 5m/- in cash to Mr Tino to support him in his business. Dr Magufuli expressed optimism that after qualifying for AFCON 2019 and hosting the U-17 AFCON finals, Tanzania will be able to market its players to foreign teams as scouts will be looking to recruit footballers from the country. But President Magufuli warned against bigotry displayed by some soccer fans when two of the country’s top football teams, Simba and Young African (Yanga) when either of the team plays with foreign teams. “Let’s put that prejudice aside, we should be united and support our local teams when they are taking part in international competitions. If Yanga is playing then Simba fans should support it and vice-versa,” he advised. Dr Magufuli was however sad that Tanzania had not been performing well in other sports such as boxing and athletics, pledging the government’s support to development of sports in the country. Present at the occasion at State House were Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, Deputy Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Ms Juliana Shonza and Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Mr Paul Makonda, among others. Speaking at the occasion, the Vice-President was equally thrilled that Tanzanians came together last Sunday to cheer up the national team and displayed vigorous patriotism. “All Tanzanians should continue with the spirit of unity and patriotism which they displayed during the match,” she remarked. Taifa Stars won the match and hearts of Tanzanians to finish second with 8 points, while Uganda remained at the top with 13 points, while Taifa Stars rivals, Lesotho and Cape Verde finished third and fourth, respectively.