THE government has stepped up efforts to strengthen preventive and treatment services in the health sector with the aim of reducing HIV- associated cancers. Representing the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender , Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu in a U54 Consortium Meeting on HIV Related Malignancies held in Dar es Salaam this week, the Muhimbili National Hospital Executive Director, Prof Lawrence Museru said that the conference focuses on finding solutions in fighting HIVrelated malignancies. He said the government was aware of the increasing HIV – related cancers and it has opened doors for experts to conduct researches that will provide solutions to the problem. Prof Museru said that according to experts, HIV related cancers which include cervical cancer, Kaposi sarcoma and lymphoma were on the increase. He said that statistics show that HIV/AIDS infection was decreasing in the country although there are still some challenges which need to be addressed. Prof Museru said that Tanzania was working hard to attain the World Health Organisation (WHO) ‘90- 90-90 targets which aims at diagnosing 90 percent of all HIV positive people, provide antiretroviral therapy (ART) for 90 percent of those diagnosed and achieve viral suppression for 90 percent of those treated, by 2020. He said in Tanzania, people who go for diagnosis of the diseases has increased, those who receive antiretroviral therapy have reached 98 percent and those who have been diagnosed and achieve viral suppression have reached 85 per cent. “We are on the right direction towards attaining the WHO ‘90-90-90 target, as the country has attained 98 per cent of people who receive antiretroviral therapy and 85 per cent of those diagnosed and achieve viral suppression,” he said. Prof Museru said that although HIV infection has decreased, there is still a huge task ahead because the infection rate was still high in some regions. The Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) Executive Director, Dr Julius Mwaiselage said that the scientific conference focused on HIV related malignancies. He said that the conference included African countries under a programme which collaborates with various institutions in the US in preparing different researches and training programmes. The African countries implementing the programme include Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia, Malawi Botswana and Nigeria. He noted that various researches have been conducted and the participants met to share the findings and find out ways to identify sources of HIV related cancers and proper treatment. “This will help the country to come up with better ways to strengthen preventive and treatment services in order to reduce HIV infection and related malignancies. He said that according to statistics, 60 per cent of cancers are reported globally in developing countries, including Africa and most of them were those associated with HIV. The three day conference ended yesterday. The US National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the Fogarty International Centre (FIC) have partnered in several efforts for developing research capacity in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) on HIVassociated cancers. In 2013, NCI and FIC developed a RFA ( HYPERLINK “http://grants. nih.gov/grants/guide/rfafiles/ RFA-CA-13-010.html” RFA-CA-13-010) that solicited applications to support research projects that would be conducted jointly between United States (U.S.) and sub-Saharan African investigators. The eight funded applications support inter- disciplinary research on HIV-associated malignancies in sub-Saharan Africa conducted by collaborative consortia between African institutions and institutions in the U.S.