A SHORTAGE of staff at the College of African Wildlife Management Mweka (CAWM Mweka) in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region, has been described as one of the big challenges facing the international wildlife management training institution. This was revealed by CAWM Mweka Rector, Prof Jaffari Kideghesho, when briefing members of the Parliamentary Committee on Lands, Natural Resources and Tourism, who visited the facility. "This challenge has led us to employ some staff on a part-time basis, which is costly," he said, adding that the college needed 124 members of staff, but so far it had only 90 staff, 13 of them being employed on a contract basis. "Because of this shortage, those already employed are forced to discharge some duties not related to their profession. This compromises efficiency as far as our daily duties are concerned," said Prof Kideghesho. He mentioned other challenges as a shortage of dormitories and houses for some of the staff. "This has forced 60 per cent of staff to stay outside the college premises, some of them in Moshi Town, which is 14km from the college," he said. According to him, another challenge is a small library, which can accommodate 80 students at a time compared to the current need of 300 students at a time. Prof Kideghesho said apart from the challenges the college had also made significant achievements, including a growing number of students. "The number of students has risen from 25, who came from Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, Cameroon and Tanzania, when it was established in 1963 to the current 600 students an increase in more than 2,300 per cent," he noted. He mentioned another achievement as the number of graduates since 1963, which he said had 500 from 28 African countries and others from 26 overseas countries. Speaking on the occasion, Acting Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Lands, Natural Resources and Tourism Shaban Shekilindi hailed the college management for good services despite many challenges facing the college. "We advise the government to work closely with the board and the management of this college to ensure these challenges are addressed," he noted.