JAPAN Tobacco International (JTI) in collaboration with government, Winrock International (WI) and other stakeholders have empowered over 560 women in Tabora Region to achieve their economic potentials through ARISE programme. Winrock International Tanzania ARISE Director, Magawa Abdallah said here over the weekend after visiting beneficiaries of the programme in Urambo, Kaliua and Uyui districts where women from 25 Village Savings and Lending Associations (VSLAs) groups have received the trainings on economic empowerment. “The programme has so far trained 17 village agents who are the Community Based Trainers as the move to enhance VSLA concept in rural communities,” he said during the celebration of the International Women’s Day. Achieving Reduction of Child Labour in Support of Education (ARISE) is a programme that aims to empower rural communities to fight child labour. One of the models that ARISE programme does is to train women in tobacco growing communities on (VSLA) concept, business management skills, entrepreneurship and agribusiness. Coupled with awareness campaigns on child labour, parents are able to meet basic family needs including education as it has been witnessed at Chali Primary School where the average school attendance has increased from 65 percent to 96 percent as per Bwire Mbuya-Deputy Head Teacher, Chali Primary School in Uyui District. One of the beneficiaries Salma Iddy from Shughulika Group in Kaliua district said, “I thank ARISE programme because through VSLA, members in our group are able to get unconditional loan between 400,000/- to 800,000/- according to her shares. ” She said the money helped to buy school uniforms and other educational materials for my children motivating them to attend school. Ms Asha Lunga from Chali village in Uyui District said the lending ability in the group has reached up to 800,000/- per member, after a year since the group was established. Usindi Village Executive Officer, Rose Jackson said that a number of initiatives introduced by ARISE programme such as VSLA have helped to improve their family incomes to take good care of the children’ needs particularly their education and health.