PATRICK Aussems offered his reaction to Simb a b eing paired w i th Congolese g iants TP Mazemb e in the q uarterfinals of CAF Champions League, saying they w ill g ive it everything . CECAFA flag bearers in CAF Champions L eague Simba were drawn to face TP Mazembe in the last eight of the competition during the draw conducted in the Egyptian capital, Cairo on Wednesday night. The first leg is due to be contested at National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on April 5th or 6th this year and the return taking place away in L ubumbashi a week later. Reacting after the tie was confirmed, Aussems said they have to change their game strategies especially when playing away. “Obviously it is a difficult game, but we take what we’ve got and we will give it everything, including making some changes in our game approach especially when playing away. It is clear that we had bad away record in a group stage,” said the Belgian tactician. Simba had a poor record in away venues at the group stage after losing 5-0 to AS Vita in the first leg match staged in Kinshasa, before losing by the same margin to Al Ahly in Cairo and recently lost 2-0 to JS Saoura in Algeria. However, the Reds won a single away match during the preliminary stage of the continental top tier club championship, after beating Eswatini’s Mbabane Swallows 4-1 to register a massive 8-1 aggregate victory. They won 4-0 in Dar es Salaam. Aussems side marched into the first round and lost 2-1 away in Kitwe, Zambia to Nkana FC before staging a 3-1 comeback in Dar es Salaam to secure group stage slot. With such appalling away record, coach Aussems said that they have been working on weaknesses, so as to be in a good position when facing five times tournament champions Mazembe. “The games we played in group stage have enabled us to discover our weaknesses especially in away games and we are working on them to build a stronger squad,” he said. However, Aussems said his side has already surpassed its set goals for the tournament by cruising into the knockout stage and from now on, they will take matches as they come and possibly brush aside Mazembe. Simba have posted 100 per cent home record in this Champions L eague, a situation that helped them to make it to the knockout stage. They won 3-0 against JS Saoura in their opener at the National Stadium before stunning the Egyptian giants Al Ahly and the tournament’s eight times winners with 1-0 win in Dar es Salaam and snatched a hard fought 2-1 win over AS Vita. This means, TP Mazembe will face monumental task against Simba, who will play the game as underdog, but with nothing to lose. One thing that is certain is a vociferous atmosphere at National Stadium for the initial meeting between the Reds and Mazembe. Simba made it into quarters after they finished second in group D with nine points, just a point behind leaders Al Ahly of Egypt, Mazembe reached the stage after topping group C with 11 points. This will be a second time for Simba to face TP Mazembe. In 2011 the two teams met in the same tournament whereby Mazembe won both legs -- 3-1 in first leg in L ubumbashi and later posted a 3-2 victory in Dar es Salaam. The Tuesday night quarter finals draw as well saw South Africa’s Mamelodi Sundowns drawn against Egyptian giants Al Ahly, while AC Horoya (Guinea) will face Morocco’s Wydad Casablanca and defending champions Esperance from Tunisia playing against debutants CS Constantine from Algeria. The Full CAF CL Quarter Finals Draw Mamelodi Sundowns (RSA) Vs Al Ahly (Egypt) Simba (Tanzania) Vs TP Mazembe (DR Congo) AC Horoya (Guinea) Vs Wydad Casablanca (Morocco) CS Constantine (Algeria) Vs Esperance (Tunisia).