LINDI Region is leading in Micro-Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Tanzania entrepreneurs were showing by deeds how they can advance industrialisation agenda. The Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe said he has been informed Lindi had won number one position in MSMEs with 452 industries which indicate to banks and financial institutions it was worth to investing in the region by boosting credits to entrepreneurs. “Banks which are here can hear about this...that if you put your money in Lindi they will be recovered,” he said after he toured exhibition stalls at the Lindi business and investment forum organised by Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited and Regional Commissioner’s Office to promote business and investment opportunities in Lindi Region. MSMEs, the dominant sector in the manufacturing sector, play a crucial role in employment creation and income generation in Tanzania. According to Tanzania Development Vision 2025 MSMEs is one important contributor to the country’s long-term development. It is estimated that Tanzania’s SME sector consists of more than three million enterprises which contributed about 27 per cent of overall GDP in 2010, according to MSME baseline survey report by Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDT). Lindi region that will host a 30 billion US dollars liquefied natural gas (LNG) project by multinational oil and gas companies is focused to promote its untapped rich resources in agriculture, fisheries, tourism and mining for domestic and foreign investments in order to boost growth and development in the region. The Lindi Regional Commissioner (RC), Godfrey Zambi said the region would like to promote opportunities in agriculture which dominates the economy of the region. The region has lucrative opportunities in agro-processing industries for cashew nut, the leading cash crop, sesame and sunflower, he said. Foreign investors have already been attracted by abundant resources of the region. A cassava processing factory was inaugurated last Friday with capacity to process 60 tonnes of cassava per day. The RC said Lindi has also ample land for cultivation of food crops such as maize and peas. Lindi is also an emerging mining destination after discovery of graphite, gold, various gemstones and gypsum which have attracted local start-up firms and major mining firms. The region also boast unexplored natural and cultural resources in terms of a vast stretch of pristine white sand beaches said to be among the world’s best, as well as ruins and monuments in Kilwa and Lindi Municipality. Lucrative opportunities for investments are also found in health and education sectors as demand for private hospitals and school is rapidly growing thanks to increasing number of civil servants and business people residing on the region.