HE was neither a public leader nor a big businessman, but the multitude of Dar es Salaam residents, who turned up yesterday to receive the body of former Clouds Media Group (CMG) leader Ruge Mutahaba demonstrated that he was indeed a man of the people. It was in the afternoon yesterday when a South African Airways (SAA) plane carrying the body of Ruge touched down at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA). Countless journalists turned up to capture last moments of the entertainment icon as his body arrived at JNIA. Among those present at JNIA to receive the body of Ruge was Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) January Makamba, Clouds Media Groups Executive Director Joseph Kusaga and Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda. However, a motorcade included a van carrying Ruge’s body started off its journey from JNIA at about 4pm to Clouds Media offices and later to Lugalo Military Hospital, where his body was preserved in preparation for a grand fete to bid him farewell today, an event planned to be held at Karimjee Hall in Dar es Salaam. Clearly manifesting that he indeed commanded respect among Tanzanians some parts of Dar es Salaam City came to a standstill as the motorcade drove through Nyerere, Mandela, Uhuru, Morocco, Tandele Uzuri-Sinza, Shekilango, Bagamoyo and ITV roads to Cloud Media offices in Mikocheni. A large multitude with somber mood engulfed in sorrow lined up on road sides to mourn ‘Jasiri Mwongoza Njia’, the beloved entertainment mastermind as he passed on the designated routes. Many other people gathered in groups to follow closely the arrival of Ruge’s body on live television and radio stations. A section of motorcyclists could not help expressing their grief as they rode sideways the vehicle carrying the body of Ruge, while women, children and the youth followed along touching the vehicle, while chatting: “Ruge, Ruge, Ruge…” On several occasions, the motorcade was forced to stop for a few minutes as the multitude of people gathering along the road blocked it giving them room to show their grief for some time. Commuter buses and private vehicles also stopped to show respect.