HALOTEL customers may soon start accessing Visa payments through their mobile phones, the company said yesterday. Halotel, a brand name of Viettel Telecommunications Company, said it plans to deploy a new service in cooperation with Visa, a global payments technology firm. The Company’s Managing Director Nguyen Van Son, told the ‘Daily News’ recently that the aim of incorporating such services is to connect a lot of ‘wananchi’ to the global payments system, bringing the safety and convenience when making payments. “Any Halopesa’s customer, including those having no bank account, can benefit from this solution,” Mr Nguyen said. Visa on mobile enables consumers to access their funds directly from their bank accounts via their mobile banking app to pay merchants, send money to individuals as well as deposit, or withdraw cash at any Visa agent. Enrolled merchants will receive a unique QR code with a Till Number that customers can scan using a smartphone or key enter using a feature phone respectively to make the payments. The funds move directly from the consumer’s bank account into the merchant’s account and provide real-time notification to both parties. Halotel has attended the Mobile World Congress 2019 in the city of Barcelona, Spain, among other things it intends to introduce to the world the experiences of building infrastructure with large coverage in a developing country (Tanzania). In addition, Halotel also wants to learn more about the most advanced technologies in the world to apply in the construction of infrastructure in Tanzania. Halotel is a telecommunications enterprise recognised by the Tanzanian government for its contributions to the development of the national economy. In Tanzania, more than 120,000 villages and communes are unable to access basic telecommunications services, however, thanks to Halotel’s efforts over the past three years, 78,000 villages have got access to basic telecommunications services. This is the premise for Halotel to deliver smart products and services to Tanzanians.