OURS is a turbulent world. Ours, we are saying, because, whereas Tanzania is an independent country, it is not an island that is cut off from the global community, but is very much part of it. Indeed, the term ‘global village’ shoots to the fore in this regard, because Tanzania constitutes a component of that wide community. About the turbulence, there are many trouble spots in the world that are engulfed in confrontations of various kinds. They range from very bitter verbal exchanges, to all-out war, whose effects include displacement of people from their home countries, to others, for the sake of sparing their lives. There are several people, indeed, who , from babyhood to adulthood, have never known the sweetness of their home countries, due to such confrontations. Tanzania is among countries in the world that suffered the agony of being colonised. But thanks to the gallantry of nationalists who include the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Tangayika, which is how the Mainland was initially called, gained independence on December 9, 1961. For the far-sighted Nyerere and fellow nationalists, however, political independence was not an end in itself but the starting point for all-round liberation, embracing spheres like social welfare and economic development. Being close to six decades beyond Uhuru, Tanzanians should be collectively proud, one of the manifestations of which should be, figuratively speaking, standing tall. Come every December 9th, we hold commemorations to proudly recall Uhuru Day in 1961, and to salute those who were in the vanguard of the attainment of that noble goal. Most annoyingly, however, singly or as part of groups, some people amongst us behave in the most unpatriotic manner, by behaving as though they don’t belong here. They shamelessly mudsling the country of their birth by portraying it as undemocratic, while the opposite is the case. What’s worse, some use platforms in countries that had been in the forefront of colonising countries elsewhere. Plus, there are aspects in those countries where not everything is rosy, and where, indeed, there are many socio-economic shortcomings. We are thus fully in agreement with the sentiments of the Minister for Foreign Minister Affairs and East African Cooperation, Professor Palamagamba Kabudi. He has aptly remarked, that Tanzanians should be patriotic by speaking well of the country; else keep quiet. Well spoken, Mr Minister!