THE Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs has been hailed for ongoing construction of court infrastructure in the country. Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs Mohamed Mchengerwa said the projects were well supervised and were up to standard. "The committee hails the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Judiciary for overseeing court projects and wants the projects to be completed on time and to be up to standard," said Mr Mchengerwa. He was speaking during a tour of the committee to different projects under the ministry since March 13 and the tour is expected to end tomorrow. The committee is accompanied by the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga. This is the first tour since Dr Mahiga was handed over the office by his predecessor, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, who has been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation. In the financial year 2018/19, at least 35,973,722,000/- has been allocated to the Judiciary for development projects. Mr Mchengerwa said the committee was impressed by Dr Mahiga for being the first minister to travel with the committee to inspect Judiciary projects since the fifth phase government came to power in 2015. He said the committee would accord the ministry all support so that it implemented well its responsibilities. Dr Mahiga told the committee that in the financial year 2018/19, the Judiciary had been implementing 35 projects at different levels. After inspection of projects in Mbeya, it will move to others in Njombe, Arusha and Manyara before parliamentary sessions resume on April 2. He said in the same financial year, out of the 35,973,722,000/- that Judiciary had been allocated, 15bn/- was from the Treasury, while 20,973,722,000/- was from outside the country. From the Treasury, 5bn/- has so far been spent on the implementation of projects. Acting Judiciary Chief Executive Officer Solanus Nyimbi said there had been some challenges in the implementation of the projects, including a slow flow of funds, geographical issues, weather and soil related challenge in some project areas. He mentioned others as land ownership in project areas.