COUNCILS in Rukwa Region have collected 5.2bn/- revenue in the second quarter of 2018/19 financial year, with Sumbawanga Municipal Council emerging the first among the four councils in revenue collection. Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC) Joachim Wangabo said it, while addressing councillors, councillors' chairmen, MPs and senior civil servants from four councils of Nkasi, Kalambo and Sumbawanga District Council as well as Sumbawanga Municipal Council. The meeting was held yesterday in the municipal council. Mr Wangabo noted further that local councils’ target was to collect 8,817,630,000/- for 2018/19, adding that until February 28, revenue collection stood at 59.17 per cent of the targeted revenue collection. "Sumbawanga Municipal Council has collected 2.1bn/- in the second quarter of financial year, about 98.1 per cent of the targeted collection of 2.2bn/- in the 2018/19 financial year, subsequently excelling in revenue collection among the four councils in the region," said the RC. Mr Wangabo further said that Nkasi District Council became the second after posting 1.5bn/- revenue equivalent to 66 per cent of the targeted collection of 2.3bn/-, the Kalambo District Council became third with 720m/-, equivalent to 36.05 per cent of the targeted collection of 2bn/-. Sumbawanga District Council became the fourth with 809m/-, equivalent to 35 per cent of the targeted collection of 2.3bn/-. "Councils to have sufficient revenue as well as other resources is vital in the execution of its discharge of duties... it is also important to ensure that financial expenditure is carefully controlled so that the money should not be used for unintended purposes. In short, a local council with sufficient revenue collection and strictly controlling its financial expenditure will definitely be respected by its taxpayers," added the RC. He urged local councils' financial and planning committees to meet each month to get authentic income and expenditure financial reports," he noted. Contributing on the matter, a cross-section of councillors said it was high time councils in the region got new sources to boost domestic revenue collection.