Interviewees say he's the type of President we want for he wants people to be treated fairly and follows up on issues affecting them  PRESIDENT John Mafuguli has continued winning public trust after intervening in a case involving police officers and a Tabora resident, who was detained and released after the President’s intervention. Political commentators and lawyers, who spoke to ‘Daily News on Saturday’ on different occasions yesterday congratulated President John Magufuli for acting expeditiously on the mater stressing, “this is the type of President we want.” Mr Musa Adam Sadiki, a resident of Tabora, was at the hands of unethical law enforcers, who prompted President Magufuli to order the relevant authorities to investigate the matter and ensure justice was done. “Dr Magufuli is the President and Head of State and government. He has the mandate to intervene in any matter if he sees something is not right somewhere,” Dr Benson Bana, a political scientist and lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) said. Dr Bana explained that President Magufuli had distinguished himself from other Heads of State by making close follow-ups on issues afflicting his citizens. He happened to read an open letter written by the Tabora resident and published in a local Kiswahili daily newspaper. “This is the type of President that we want, the one, who maintains close relationship with his citizens and, who also listens to people’s problems,” Dr Bana added. However, Dr Bana noted that regional and district commissioners and public leaders ought to be active in solving citizens’ problems, instead of waiting for the President to intervene. Lawyers for their part said President Magufuli’s decision to draw the attention of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to intervene in the case involving the police officers and the Tabora citizen over his detention in remand was justified. Prominent lawyer Ibrahim Bendera told ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam by phone that what the President did was a positive move to ensure justice was done to all people, including ordinary citizens. "This is a good step to restore justice to this innocent man. But we need to look critically at the source of all this kind of behaviour by police officers. There are several people down there suffering at the hands of unethical police officers," he noted. The seasoned advocate trained in marine laws was of the views that when a person was taken to the police he or she should not be hurriedly interrogated without the presence of his or her advocate or any other close relative so that a statement taken could reflect what was said by such a person. A senior officer with the Attorney General Chamber's Office, who could not wish his name to be revealed, cautioned that the steps taken by the President should not be interpreted as a command to DPP on how he was supposed to do on the matter. "What the President did was just to draw the DPP’s attention on the matter so that he could intervene and take appropriate action in accordance with the law. The President took a step, which is legal and aimed at making the DPP review whatever was done by investigators," he said. The officer pointed out that according to recent amendments of the National Prosecutions Service Act, 2008, the mandate of the DPP did not only concern prosecutions, but also investigations. "The DPP under the law is mandated to supervise and coordinate criminal investigations," he said. The DPP Biswalo Mganga’s decision to investigate Mr Sadiki’s issue followed President Magufuli’s intervention after he read an article in a local Kiswahili daily newspaper, which quoted him (Sadiki), complaining that the law enforcers had forfeited his properties, detained him illegally, before charging him in court with murder, an offence he never committed. Mr Sadiki said, among other things, the police officers, who arrested him, took his 788,000/- and his mobile phone, among others.