CASSAVA growers in Coast and southern regions of the country have now a sigh of relief after the launch of a modern cassava processing factory. The plant that has been constructed by French investors in Lindi, will assure them of a readily available market for their produce. The facility, located at Mbalala Village in Nyengedi Ward, Lindi Region, offers many opportunities for cassava growers from Lindi, Mtwara and Coast regions to change their lives. Speaking after the launch of the factory yesterday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa urged residents from the southern regions to utilise the opportunity by growing cassava to improve their incomes. “If you need quick money just go out there grow cassava because there is now a reliable market. Fortunately, cassava is a short-term crop. The youth now don’t have time to stay idle. Form groups andstart cassava farms,” said the PM. He explained that the aim of the fifth phase government led by President John Magufuli was to spearhead the establishment of industries in the country for adding value to crops grown by farmers before selling them to increase productivity and create employment opportunities. The Prime Minister praised Naliendele Agricultural Research Institute for its best performance, especially in researches on cassava. He said the institute conducted a research on cassava seedlings capable of producing between 20 and 50 tonnes per hectare. The plant, known as Cassava Starch of Tanzania Corporation Limited (CSTC), has so far employed 420 people of which 97 per cent are Tanzanians. The factory has the capacity to process 60 tonnes of raw cassava per day, which is equivalent to 25 tonnes of quality cassava flour per day. French Ambassador to Tanzania Frederic Clavier said the French government was ready to join hands with President Magufuli’s government in its resolve to spearhead economic growth to attain the middle-income status by 2025. He said the construction of the factory was a clear sign of good and smooth cooperation between Tanzania and France, adding that agriculture was one of Tanzania’ssectors that could boost economic growth. Deputy Minister for Agriculture Omary Mgumba thanked investors for their decision to construct the factory to process cassava in the country as it would provide a reliable market for growers, including creating employment opportunities for the youth. For his part, Mtama MP Nape Nnauye thanked President Magufuli for his resolve to spearhead industrialisation. He said industries had created employment opportunities for many people, especially the youth. “We thank President Magufuli for his leadership. We didn’t expect to have this kind of factory here,” Mr Nnauye said. Earlier, CSTC Managing Director Christophe Gallean said the construction of the factory had started in 2012 and it was currently processing quality cassava flour sold to East and Southern Africa, Middle East, Europe and the United States