A GROUP of 21 people from Holland were thrilled to be led by their compatriot, Mr Frank van Beers Vitaal, on his 80th birthday to conquer Mount Kilimanjaro. The Dutch, who descended from Africa’s highest mountain on Sunday through Mweka Gate, chose the most difficult route – Umbwe and more than 70 per cent made it to the Stella Point of the mountain at 5,739 metres above sea level. He termed hiking Kilimanjaro as the most exhilarating tourist journey he had ever embarked on in the world, because of the  uniqueness of the mountain and the surrounding areas. Speaking at Mweka Gate after descending, Mr Vitaal said the journey was difficult, characterised by altitude sickness and cold weather. He was nevertheless happy, he said,  as the plan to form the group for his birthday was successful and  its members were thrilled by the scenery, the people of Tanzania, the porters and guides. To express their satisfaction and happiness with the people of Tanzania and its natural resources, Mr Vitaal said the group that was accompanied by 70 porters and 10 guides, decided to offer support to the only female porter, Ms Fatuma Khalfan,  to undertake studies, starting with English and then business courses so that she and her family could have better lives. He pledged that after returning to Holland, he would form a bigger group and come to Tanzania once more so that fellow nationals could enjoy the beauty endowed to Tanzania and her people. “It was not easy to hike the mountain due to the topography, the cold and changing weather and also the age, but we are happy that more than 70 per cent of us made it to the higher points. We are impressed so much, we will now be having a party for my birthday and have decided to support Fatuma to pursue studies … I am going to form another group and take it from me, next year I will be here with more people,” said the old man. On his part, Tour Guide with Ghagga Tours, Mr Michael Nelson who led the group, said that of the 70 per cent who made it to the higher altitudes of the mountain, seven reached the top – Uhuru Peak (5,895m) while others reached Stella Point and two others failed and went back on the first and second day, respectively. Ms Khalfan thanked the group for the support offered, saying after knowing English properly she would pursue her  duties well, but her ultimate goal was to do business so as to take care of her three children who depend on her. 