LEADERS Young Africans intensified P remier League title chase with a hard earned 2-1 victory over Kinondoni Municipal Council in a thrilling match at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam yesterday. The win consolidated Yanga’s pilot seat with 67 points garnered through 21-match victories and four draws. The leaders were yesterday playing their 27th match. Azam continued to cling the second position with 59 points from 28 matches, just eight points superior to the third-placed Simba, who have played 20 matches. Yesterday’s results helped Yanga collect six points from KMC as they beat them 2-1 in their first round game at the same venue. The match was very entertaining and both teams played well, though KMC looked a better drilled side to Yanga who relied much on experience. It was KMC who were the first to open their goal account in 16th minute through Mohamed Rashid. The score slammed home the ball past Claude Kindoki after defender Kamusoko failed to clear Hassan Kabunda’s cross off the left flank. The goal awakened Yanga and series of attacks mounted in a search of the equalizer. Thabani Kamusoko almost scored in ten minutes later when his powerful free kick hit a cross bar and its rebound was easily collected by KMC goalie Jonathan Nahimana. KMC dangerman Hassan Kabunda could give his team a 2-0 lead in the 26th minute, but his fifteen-metre kick was cleared by Kamusoko. It was attack and counter attack in the remaining minute with Charles Ilanfya, Kabunda and Rashid looked very dangerous whenever they approach the danger zone. Yanga’s strikers Haritier Makambo who was alone upfront relied much on Papy Kabamba Tshishimbi, Feisal Salum and Kamusoko at the middle of terrain. Their combination helped Yanga to score an equalizer in the 36th minute. Tshishimbi leveled the matter after heading the ball home from Deus Kaseke’s corner kick. The score remained 1-1 until the end of the first half. On resumption, KMC introduced Juma Kaseja in the second half to replace Nahimana who had picked an injury. Kabunda could hand Yanga another shock in the 46th minute when he collected the ball from the left flank rounded two defenders, but his shot went a few centimetres off target. In the 56th KMC brought in James Msuva for Charles Ilanfya who seemed to have lost the first half steam. In the 61st minute Mohamed Rashid, the scorer of the KMC opener, missed a clear chance with only keeper Kindoki to beat. In their attempt to consolidate their striking force, Yanga introduced Ibrahim Ajib in the 62nd minute for Deus Kaseke. Ajib’s arrival proved vital for his team and his contribution was seen in the 66th minute when his cross helped Yanga to score the winner. Ajib sent a volley towards KMC goal mouth targeting Makambo, but KMC defender Ally Ally rushed in head the ball into his own net past goalkeeper Juma Kaseja. The highly entertaining KMC continued to raid Yanga’s goal hunting an equalizer, but most of their attacks were either cleared by Yanga defenders or went off target. In the last 15 minutes Yanga opted to defend their slim lead by adding more players at the defence. In the 81st minute Yanga brought in Saidi Juma for Mrisho Ngasa, who played well yesterday.