THE Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe, has said the Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA) is finalising installation of security system in Terminal III at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) before it is officially commissioned. Eng Kamwelwe made the remark here over the weekend hinting that the construction of the Terminal III will cater for international flights, and urged TAA to put final touches of the electronic gadgets capable of tracing and detecting travellers’ movements within and their luggage. “The project to install security system in Terminal III is being carried out by our experts from TAA after the project’s completion,” noted the Minister, while addressing workers at a sector of the Workers Council’s meeting. The Council draws its members from units under the works portfolio of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications and was convened to discuss the upcoming budget. However, Eng Kamwelwe directed the Workers Council to review and prepare afresh reports on the construction projects under the ministry for the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure to go through. “All the reports should be reviewed and prepared afresh before being handed over to the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure,” he directed. Equally, the Minister pointed out that the Parliamentary Committee was not satisfied with the construction projects report it had earlier received, because it did not show progress of the schemes and costs. On his part, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Elius Mwakalinga, who doubles also as the chairman of works’ Sector Workers Council meeting, said the meeting provides the heads of the unit in the sector with a platform to discuss the upcoming budget. He said the main goal of the Workers Council was to improve cooperation between the management and workers, adding that the council also provides the workers with an ideal platform to discuss their interests. “The workers get an opportunity to discuss challenges facing the projects being undertaken by our ministry,” added the Permanent Secretary.