THE Court of Appeal has rejected the appeal by the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) Limited and a person named Steven Shiletiwa, challenging payments of over 300m/- to a construction company for breach of trust, confidentiality and divulgence. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Shaban Lila and Rehema Mkuye ruled in favour of the company, Ballast Construction Company LTD, after allowing one ground of objection the company, as respondent, had lodged to oppose the appeal in question. In the ground of objection, counsel for the company had told the court that the NBC and Mr Shiletiwa, as appellants, had failed to take an essential step for failure to serve the respondent with the copy of the Notice of Appeal as required by Rule 84 (1) of the Court of Appeal Rules. The justices in their ruling delivered in Zanzibar recently pointed out that the procedure governing the conduct of proceedings in the court is as provided by the rules. According to them, in terms of Rule 84(1) of the rules, which is couched in mandatory terms, an intended appellant is required to serve all persons against whom the appeal lies, copies of the notice of appeal before or within fourteen days after lodging the notice of appeal. “It is clear that the rule gives a right to one party and imposes an obligation to the other party. While it is the respondent’s right to be served with the copy of the notice of appeal, the intended appellant is, on the other side, obliged to ensure that he serves the notice on the respondent,” the justices said. The purpose of serving the respondent with the notice of appeal, they said, was not far to seek, as the notice is intended to make the respondent aware that an appeal is being preferred, hence be able to marshal his arsenals properly. “In the instant case, it is indeed clear that the notice of appeal in the record indicates that it was copied to the respondent. There is, however, no indication whatsoever that the same was served to the respondent. It cannot therefore be said, with certainty, it was served on the respondent,” they ruled. The justice concluded by holding, “We’re enjoined to find that the appeal is, in view of the above irregularity, incompetent. Our finding in the point of objection is sufficient to dispose of the matter. We sustain the point of objection. The appeal is incompetent and it is hereby struck out with costs.” The respondent successfully sued the appellants before the High Court for breach of trust, confidentiality and divulgence. He claimed for 500m/-as general damages, interest on the principal sum at 23 per cent per annum from the date of filling the suit to the date of judgment. He had also demanded to be paid interest at Court rate from date of judgment to date of full payment, other reliefs as the court may deem fit and just to grant and costs. The High Court was satisfied that the claims were proved and awarded the respondent 300m/-, as general damages, interest on the decretal sum at 23 per cent as per banking practice from the date of filing the suit to the date of judgment.