THE East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) has requested an introduction of a special levy to facilitate sustainability of financing East African Community (EAC). The Assembly, met in Zanzibar, urging the EAC to consider instituting a more sustainable funding mechanism to include charging an import levy. The report notes that “a 0.01 per cent levy on imports into the region would facilitate the financing of the EAC”. The call came after EALA adopted a report last Friday afternoon of the activities undertaken in the partner states in February, under the theme of “Accessing the Gains and Assessing the Challenges.” The suggestion came after member states delaying on paying their dues timely to affect implementation of the bloc integration agenda. The report presented to the House by George Odongo, further urges all Partner States to remit the contributions in a timely manner and fashion saying that “delays and non-remittances” have continued to affect the implementation of the EAC integration agenda. On top of that, the report avers of the existence of trade disputes and disharmony among the partner states largely regarding access of markets within member states. It among other things, calls for harmonisation of custom systems to reduce the cost of doing business, concrete measures geared towards complete elimination of Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs), which negatively affect regional trade programmes and the establishment of the Committee for Trade and Remedies. “There is need to institute more practical and binding mechanisms to remove the remaining 20 per cent of NTBs to allow for more trade, which will increase taxes, incomes and other benefits”, the report said. The report also suggests that regular meetings at the borders between the customs departments, revenue authorities and border security personnel should be held frequently. The meeting may assist to solve mutually challenges regarding cross-border trading. The report revealed some of the challenges within the partner states. For instance in Kenya, residents reported difficulties encountered while attempting to establish businesses in other EAC partner states, which contravenes the Common Market Protocol and the spirit of the EAC integration. In Tanzania, a lack of communication was cited as a major challenge between the Tanzania Ports Authorities and other EAC partner states’ revenue authorities. In Rwanda, the report denotes lack of weighbridges to facilitate the implementation of the EAC Vehicle Load Control Act, 2016 as one of the challenges. In South Sudan, laws of EAC have not been harmonised according to the report making it difficult for the ministry in charge of regional integration to coordinate and facilitate activities of integration with other stakeholders in the country. While, in Uganda, the Assembly was informed of the need to harmonise interest rates in the member states, presenting a disadvantage to Ugandan traders especially those trading around the borders. Meanwhile the Legislative has urged its member states to fully implement the common market protocol to allow free movement of people, goods and services. The regional lawmakers said there is need for enhanced visibility of the regional bloc and for all partner states to adjust their national laws to that of the community. The report calls for harmonisation of custom systems to reduce the cost of business, and the adoption of Kiswahili as the region’s official language. In a bid to ease movement, EALA wants the partner states’ immigration authorities to harmonise fees of the East African e-passport to make it affordable for all East Africans.