MEMBERS of the engineering fraternity through the Engineers Registration Board (ERB) have vowed to effectively play their professional role in supporting the country’s industrialisation agenda. In doing so, they have expressed their commitment individually or collectively to participate with full swing in the ongoing major projects under implementation, cautioning against leaving mega projects exclusively in the hands of foreigners. Delivering a welcoming speech during the special mentors seminar organised by ERB to over 500 engineers from Mwanza, Kagera, Mara, Tabora, Shinyanga, Geita, Simiyu and Kigoma regions here on Friday, the Board’s Registrar, Eng Patrick Balozi, said engineers should re-check their position on the agenda. “We are equally obliged to take part so effectively in the development of our land and make sure we don’t let our President down, as he asked us to remain innovative and united in safeguarding the interests of the country and keep its ball rolling,” he said. Engineer Balozi challenged all engineers to equip themselves with different soft skills in the course of undertaking their noble functions, citing areas like project management and project registration as part of special areas in need of additional skills. He said it was high time locally based engineers rechecked their contributions in all government advertised mega works like Stiegler’s Gorge and Standard Gauge Railways (SGR) projects apart from many others in pipeline and different stages of implementation across the country. According to Eng Balozi, ERB was now working hard to increase enrolment of female engineers who currently constitute only 10 per cent of around 24,000 registered engineers. “We plan to increase the enrolment of female engineers currently amounting to only ten per cent of the total registered engineers countrywide. Studies show that female engineers could perform equally better if they are supported and well equipped,” noted Eng Balozi. He also cited a number of projects ERB was earmarking, including the construction of Mhandisi House which will be used as a centre of excellence targeting to nourish talents of young engineers by collecting their innovative ideas in the development of the industry.