TANGA Cement Company yesterday issued a cautionary notice saying its gradual recovery and expects to reduce its losses by around 50 per cent in 2018. The cement maker, trades as Simba, said in the notice that expects its loss per share will be between 150/- and 199/- being 52 per cent and 64 per cent in 2018 lower than its loss of 418 per share in 2017. The Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange listed firm attributed the loss-reduction results to improved cement market last year, increase sales volume and production. “The Tanzanian cement market improved notably [in 2018 thus] Tanga Cement significantly improved its trading results and profitability...,” the report said. Also the notice advised shareholders that Tanga Cement expects the operating profit before interest and tax to be between 232 per cent and 248 per cent last year higher than that achieved in previous year. Tanzania Securities Investment Advisory Manager, Happy Msale said notice means the firm is slowly turning around but is still on red. “This signals a gradual climb to recovery for Simba Cement …. It is likely that profitability is being weighed down by the interest payment from the loan that the company took to finance its production capacity expansion,” Ms Msale told the ‘Daily News’. She said the debt, which is denominated in US dollars also puts pressure on the company as interest payments are also in dollars. “It is unlikely that the company will pay dividends in 2018, unless it uses its retained earnings,” Ms Msale said. Tanga failed to pay dividends in 2017 as it committed available cash sources to operational and debt service commitments, she said. Zan Securities Chief Executive Officer, Raphael Masumbuko said the cautions note showing that the firm has made stride on turning around the loss making one of the largest cement makers in land. “They have done well… firm may be on profitability lane [once again] after lowering losses by over 50 per cent,” Mr Masumbuko said. He said share price appreciation may take time until investors gets the full picture of the notice. “Share price will take time to reflect the news but may appreciate in future time,” Mr Masumbuko said. Tanga Cement produced disappointment performance in 2016 and 2017 propelling the firm to halt dividend issuance in the latter year. Mid last year Tanga Cement was confident that it will return to profitability in 2018 after recording a net loss of 26bn/- in 2017. In 2016, its revenues dropped to 166.9bn/- from 209bn/- in 2015. Since the beginning of the year the cement firm share dropped by 6.25 per cent to 600/- a piece. DSE rules want a listed firm to publish a cautionary notice when there is a reasonable degree of certainty that financial results to be reported will differ by 25 per cent compared to previous period.