NEW variety of seed in the country is said to be restoring back smiles among spouses. Classified as Selian 13, 14 and 15, the bean seeds that were released by the Tanzania Agriculture Research Institute (TARI-SELIAN) last year is said to be rich in iron and zinc, important minerals that are believed to bolster sexual life among married people. A researcher with TARISELIAN, Mr Denis Mcharo told reporters here that after going through some thorough testing in labs, the bean varieties proved beyond reasonable doubt that they were capable of boosting libido for both men and women. “These seed varieties have proven to treat erectile dysfunction among men while they also boost the spouses’ reproductive health,” said the researcher. According to Mr Mcharo, the S13, S14 and S15 been seed varieties which contain essential minerals, namely zinc and iron increase human’s cognitive function which also helps in increasing sexual appetite. “Iron and zinc are important minerals needed for good health. Iron is required for oxygen to travel to the tissues and organs, while zinc prevents illness by supporting the immune system,” he added. On her part, a research associate in bean value chain with the International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Ms Radegunda Kessy said the seed varieties are also essential in addressing malnutrition among children under the age of five and in supplying pregnant and breastfeeding mothers with iron minerals. According to the Tanzania Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey (TDHS-MIS) 2015/16, anemia prevalence rate in children aged between six and 59 months stood at 58 per cent. Out of the 58 percent, 26 were mildly anemic, 30 moderate anemic while the remaining two percent were severely anemic. Iron deficiency is one of the most common micronutrient deficiencies in the world mostly affecting women, children and infants. The bean seed varieties are part of the Accelerated Varietal Improvement and seed delivery of legumes and cereals in Africa (AVISA) which was launched here on Monday. The four year project which is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to the tune of $30mn/-, covers five crops in the family of cereals and legumes in seven countries in Africa.