TOP national religious bodies in Tanzania have joined forces with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Tanzania to advocate for improved water sanitation and hygiene services in the country. The campaign will ensure the faith-based institutions both in education and health sectors are transformed to become exemplary in complying with WASH guidelines and services and to continue educating congregations and institutions on WASH issues through prayers and sermons. The move was reached yesterday in Dar es Salaam after a meeting of the religious bodies under Tanzania Interfaith Alliance for Children (TIAC) on WASH and Children. The bodies include the Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT), the Catholic Secretariat-Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC), National Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA) and Office of the Mufti of Zanzibar. Presenting a declaration of TIAC on WASH, the Chairman of Tanzania Interfaith Partnership (TIP) Sheikh Suleiman Lolila, said that their partnership will work with the grassroots organisations, corporations, and governmental bodies to secure generous support of WASH awareness and prevent waterborne diseases. According to the 2015/16 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), only 19 per cent of the households used improved sanitation, 73 per cent in rural areas used unimproved sanitation and 10 per cent practised open defecation. Relatively high diarrhoea prevalence of 12 per cent for children under five was reported. Eighty eight per cent of all diarrhoea diseases are associated with poor water, sanitation and hygiene. The high prevalence of diarrhoea is an indication that people are living in a fiscally-contaminated environment. “The campaign will also educate our members and work through our own institutions, religious councils and seminaries, to combat the silence on the subject of WASH and promote enlightened faith leaders who have one voice on WASH issues,” he said. Through the declaration, the religious leaders revealed their intention to do all in their power to advocate for improved WASH services, beginning from houses of worship and beyond until such a time as WASH is no longer a threat to the lives of the people in the country. Officiating at the meeting, the UNICEF Deputy Representative Rene Van Dongen, said that faith leaders had a significant role to play in ensuring wider access to quality WASH. He asked them to urge political leaders to prioritise improvement of WASH by ensuring the government allocates a greater proportion of the budget to WASH. “Faith leaders can convey messages about the essential WASH practices to your congregations whenever you meet with them,” he said, adding that the government had made progress in most of the areas and thus the need for the religious leaders to supplement the efforts.