KAGERA Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti, has appealed for concerted efforts, including continuous sensitization sessions for motorists, motorcyclists and other road users to end road accidents. Addressing hundreds of youths in Bukoba Municipal Council on Wednesday afternoon, Gaguti pointed out that the rate of accidents could be reduced if members of the public cooperated by reporting traffic offences to relevant authorities for action. “Accidents rob the nation of a valuable labour force and some people were disabled, and in addition, families and the nation was deprived of resourceful nation builders. Everyone and every organisation should contribute to ending accidents. While we can’t have a one-answerfits all, changing the attitude of road users would be immensely helpful for a start,” he said. He remarked: “Some of you travel frequently between Bukoba and Dar es Salaam as well as other destinations and you witness traffic rules being violated by drivers, but you never report them to the police for necessary action. In some cases, you (passengers) take part by urging drivers to speed.” The Road Traffic Act stipulates that a passenger vehicle travelling for more than eight hours should have two drivers at all times to enable them to rest when one is on the wheel. He reminded motor cycle riders (boda boda) to ensure that they have two helmets (one for the rider and another for the passenger). He also warned them against speeding and carrying more than one passenger (mishikaki), because it was a traffic offence. According to the latest WHO data published in 2017, Road Traffic Accident Deaths in Tanzania reached 17,840 or 4.78 per cent of total deaths. A cross-sectional study of patients involved in motor traffic crashes and attended in six public hospitals of Tanzania Mainland between April 2014 and September 2014 revealed that 4,675 road traffic injury patients were seen in studied hospitals. Majority (70.2 percent) were between 18 - 45 years age group. Motorcycles were the leading cause of road traffic crashes (53.4 percent) and drivers (38.3 percent) accounted for majority of victims. Fractures accounted for 34.1 per cent. Tanzania is among countries with high rates of road traffic crashes. Road traffic injuries in Tanzania are an important public health problem, predominantly in adult males, mostly due to motorcycle crashes. It is therefore important to reinforce preventive measures and prehospital emergency service is urgently needed.