TAIFA Stars players have intensified physical and technical drills in their preparations for their Sunday AFCON 2019 qualifiers game against Uganda Cranes despite facing some injuries. The highly-motivated Stars players led by skipper Mbwana Samatta continued with their training which also involved psychotherapy lessons, all intended to make them ready for the do or die match against their opponents who have pitched their training camp in Egypt. However, Emmanuel Amunike’s charges are all fit except the shots stopper Suleiman Salula from Z anzibar’s topflight league side, Malindi who picked injury during the team’s training that began early this week. He is likely to miss the Sunday game as he is currently on Plastic of Paris (P.O.P) according to the medical report unveiling him to have a fracture on his right hand, a situation that puts him out of the Amunike’s game plan. Amunike had picked three other goalkeepers in his squad ahead of the match. Apart from Salula, three others are reportedly fit and capable of guarding well the posts. Stars now will rely on Aishi Manula who had played in almost all games and new faces, Metacha Mnata (Mbao FC) and Aron Kalambo from Tanzania Prisons. The Nigerian tactician has also expressed his appreciation after all the players who have been called for the mission, reported at the camp timely, including professional players serving foreign teams. Their arrival, according to Amunike, has helped much to boost the training programme, something which he said to be highly motivating. Professional players who have arrived include the team’s skipper Mbwana Samatta who serves the Belgian topflight side, KRC Genk, Hassan Kessy who plays for Nkana FC of Z ambia, Y ahya Z ayd from Ismaily of Egypt and Himid Mao from Petrojet- Egypt. Also reported and doing fine at the camp are Shaaban Chilunda and Faridi Mussa from Tenerife of Spain, Shiza Kichuya from the Egyptian side ENPPI, Simon Msuva from Morocco’s El Jadida, Rashid Mandawa (BDF, Botswana) and Thomas Ulimwengu from JS Saoura of Algeria. Stars must beat the already qualified Uganda Cranes on Sunday at the National Stadium if they are to qualify for the finals to be held in Egypt from June 21 to July 19 after 39 years wait for Africa Cup of Nations qualification. The L ast time Tanzania set its foot in the continental finals was in 1980 and need pray Cape Verde, overcome lowly L esotho in another group L match in Cape Verde on the same day to cruise into the finals. Currently group L is led by Uganda followed by Tanzania and L esotho who are tied on five points and Cape Verde are at the bottom of the log with four point. However all the three sides Tanzania, L esotho and Cape Verde are in the reckoning for a place in Egypt, meanwhile the Cranes shared spoil in a build up match against an Egyptian side premier league club, El Gaish after a 1-1 draw on Wednesday. The Cranes took the match lead on the quarter hour mark through Moses Waiswa before Gaish’s late equaliser. Uganda are on a week-long camp in Ismailia, Egypt ahead of Stars match and are expected to jet in Dar es Salaam on March 22 or 23 ready for the match.