CHINA has diffused the growing tension on debt-trap diplomacy attached to its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), hinting that the multi-billion dollar project is just like other cooperative schemes. The project, a brainchild of the President Xi Jinping, was officially launched in 2013, focusing on infrastructure investment in countries along the old Silk Road, linking it with a network of countries in Europe, Asia and Africa. Tanzania is one of the African countries that are lined up to benefit from this project which aims at enhancing the orderly free flow of economic factors and efficient resource allocation. Addressing reporters here yesterday, the spokesperson of the Chinese National People’s Congress (NPC), Mr Zhang Yesui, noted that the initiative was basically meant to achieve sustainable development to the participating countries. Earlier, Prime Minister Li Keqiang, in his speech read at the launch of the Second Session of Thirteenth NPC, stressed that the East Asian economic giant stance was to continue promoting international cooperation under BRI. At the event that was attended by President Xi, Mr Li said in 2019, his country will ensure success of the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. “We will seek coordination between China’s development plans and those of other countries along the BRI routes focusing on major projects such as infrastructure construction and industrial–capacity cooperation,” he told the congress. At a press conference, Mr Zhang said that at least 152 countries and international organisations had already signed the cooperation documents with China on the Initiative, BRI. In the congress, the Premier said that they will also address key problems related to financial support, investment environments, risk management and security as a way of ensuring that the cooperation produced more results. “We will promote greater cooperation on the development of the Digital Silk Road and advance cooperation between China and all the partners and build high quality overseas platforms such as economic and trade cooperation zones and industrial-capacity cooperation parks and zones,” he said in remarks that were highly applauded by members of the congress. Speaking about other internal plans, Mr Li said they were planning to create about 11 million jobs for Chinese, a projection that was higher by 9.6 million from 1.4 million jobs that were created during 2018. According to him, this will be possible because more emphasis has been channeled to the construction of new industries that will technically need manpower from various fields in urban and rural areas. “This will also enable the country’s economy to grow by between 6 and 6.5 per cent in the year 2019,” noted the Chinese Prime Minister, adding that they will also carry out structural reforms of the petroleum and natural gas industries and establish a national oil and gas pipeline corporation, so as to separate transportation and marketing.