VODACOM Tanzania has said mobile technology is an enabler of inclusive development and women empowerment in the country. The Director Corporate Affairs and Vodacom Foundation, Rosalynn Mworia, said Vodacom has been running various programmes intended to improve service delivery in key areas like maternal health and education. “Mobile technology allows Vodacom to reach women in remote areas by sending informative text messages on their progress, providing them with peace of mind throughout their pregnancy,” she said. Through the ‘Wazazi Nipendeni’ initiative run in partnership with the Ministry of Health, it has reached nearly 40,000 women and significantly reduced maternal mortality rate in the lake zone as a result of mobile technology. According to a GSMA report, 14 per cent of women are less likely to own a phone; this equates to 200 million fewer women than men engaging in mobile technology. Sub-Saharan Africa is identified as the second leading region with the gender gap in mobile ownership and internet usage after South Asia. In Tanzania, various interventions in education, health and agriculture sectors such as ‘CodeLikeAGirl, Wazazi Nipendeni’ and Women Farmer Network, seek to address the gender imbalance in uptake of mobile technology. UNESCO estimates that young girls miss 20 per cent of school per year and according to a 2015 report issued by Tanzania Water and Sanitation Network (TAWASANET), about 75 per cent of schoolgirls acknowledge that menstruation impacts their performance in school. By utilising mobile technology to advise on menstrual hygiene management and sexual reproductive health education the ‘Hakuna Wasichoweza Project’ empowers girls with education on hygiene and self care. Additionally, the collaboration between T-MARC and Vodacom Foundation has equipped more than 10,000 schoolgirls in Mtwara and Lindi with sanitary pads that has resulted in an increase in school attendance. As the leading economic contributor in Tanzania, agriculture employs over 70 per cent of the population and according to the Ministry of Health, women make up 52 per cent of the labour force in the sector. Vodacom’s Women Farmer Networks that has reached women’s cooperatives in nearly 300 projects in the northern zone is behind women empowerment in the agriculture sector through skills development programmes and providing access to capital and markets using mobile technology.