TANZANIA Data Lab (dLab) has set up a programme aimed at building awareness and educating women and girls in the field of data use and management while at work places. The programme to train women and girls at early career positions has been organised in line with the celebration of this year’s International Women’s Day. The Director of Capacity Development at dLab, Ms Mahadia Tunga said in Dar es Salaam that the training will help empower women to make informed decisions, scale up career growth, create female data champions and establish a tech women database. “The programme targeting women employed at early career positions will also act as a bridge to managerial positions,” she said, adding that 29 girls and women were involved in the training. She said the programme objectives include increasing the percentage of women who use data in their day to day routine to contribute to global agenda of 50/50 percent participation in all sphere of life. Another importance of the programme is to help both women and young girls, aiming to enrich their potentials by social development and engage them in entrepreneurship, sciences and technologies. It will also lead them to better understand and explore ways to mitigate and ultimately alleviate the under participation of women in the aforementioned careers. “We believe that without data there is no visibility and without visibility there is no priority, as data can shade light in hidden issues which can lead to changes in laws, policies, budget and decisions - especially when it comes to education and health,” she added. In another development, Ms Tunga said that dLab in collaboration with other partners has plans to conduct another workshop special for International Youth Day in Aug. “It will be an intensive five day programme conducted in evenings from 2pm-5pm. The workshop commencement time has taken consideration of working women. dLab plans to reach out to young women working in remote areas,” she said. Tanzania Data Lab (dLab) is a centre of excellence for data and data driven innovation that brings together critical components of the ecosystem that needs to be in place for evidence-based decisions.