MAINLAND Premier League title contenders Young Africans will test Alliance FC resurgence, when the teams meet at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza today. In recent weeks, Alliance who are in their first season in the topflight have emerged as a real threat to opponents whenever playing at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza. Currently placed seventh on 36 points from 28 games, Alliance will be looking for revenge against Yanga. They suffered a 3-0 drubbing from the giants in the league’s first round match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. However, Alliance formed most by fresh bloods and best known for their superb footwork will certainly face a mountain task today against the league leaders. Yanga are targeting to continue extending their lead at the summit of the 20-team league. Going into the match, the Jangwani Street side Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera said his players are well drilled and ready to collect maximum points against Alliance, to maintain their title race charge. Speaking shortly after the team’s arrival at Mwanza Airport on Thursday ahead of the match, Zahera said there will be no big changes in his squad which registered a 1-0 win over Namungo FC in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) at Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi last Sunday. He confirmed that his team will miss the service of Andrew Vincent, Matteo Anthony and Pius Buswita, who are both nursing injuries. However, Yanga will have back the service of their Zimbabwean midfielder, Thabani Kamusoko, who was out of action due to injury has returned to the squad. He also blamed the league fixtures, saying it does not provide enough time for training, a situation he said was not good in football development. “We played here against Mbao FC last Wednesday then we immediately travelled to Lindi on Thursday and Sunday we played Namungo FC… this is really hectic,” he lamented. He called upon Yanga fans to flock to the stadium in order to give their players a moral boost to enable them grab vital points today. With 61 points on the kitty, Yanga sit top of the log after 25 outings. They have won 19, lost two and drawn four matches. Yanga have netted 42 and conceded 17 goals. Meanwhile, second placed Azam FC earned a 3-1 victory over African Lyon in a league match at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. They closed the gap with leaders Yanga to eight points. African Lyon remain bottom of the table on 21 points from 28 games The ice-makers, lost by the same margin in their previous game against Simba at the National Stadium last Saturday which resulted to the sacking of Head Coach, Dutchman Hans Van der Pluijm and his assistant Juma Mwambusi. Under Caretaker Coach Iddy Nassoro Cheche, Azam needed perfect response and they netted their goals through Obrey Chirwa, who opened the score in the 7th minute, finishing off Ramadhani Singano’s assist. However, Lyon level the matters in the 15th minute. In the second half Azam retained the match lead through Madathir Yahya in the 65th minute, before Lyon’s Polland Monjo pumped the ball into his own net in the 83rd minute to ensure the ‘ice-makers’ victory. The league will continue tomorrow whereby defending champions, Simba will be away once again and this time at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga to face hosts Stand United in an eagerly awaited match. Stand United who brought to an end Yanga’s unbeaten record this season after they stunned them with a 1-0 defeat, promised to do the same to another country’s football giants Simba.