TANZANIA Commission for Universities (TCU) has called for efforts by individual higher learning institutions to raise quality assurance in the provision of higher education. TCU Senior Quality Assurance, Dr Mariam Ramadhani, made the appeal on behalf of the TCU Executive Secretary, Prof Charles Kihampa. She was speaking in Dar es Salaam during a workshop of the African Council for Distance Education (ACDE) on quality assurance for teachers training and professional development. The Open University of Tanzania (OUT), being one of the ACDE members, has hosts the ongoing three-day workshop. Senior officials of the institutions, who are members of the council from various African countries attended the workshop in the city. The workshop is one of the capacity building sessions to ensure quality assurance of open distance learning education. “We really need universities themselves to build capacity in quality assurance as individual institutions,” Dr Ramadhani stated. ACDE Executive Director, Prof Rotimi Ogidan, commended OUT for playing an important role in producing a ACDE quality assurance toolkit to be used during training. “It is, therefore, evident that OUT has and will continue occupying a central place in the history of ACDE’s growth and development,” Prof Ogidan explained. He added that OUT continues making him proud of its many achievements, one being the entrenchment of quality assurance practices in service delivery. “My observation shows that, part of what has earned OUT great respect in the comity of practitioners of open distance learning is that it is in the front row in issues of quality assurance,” he emphasised. For his part, OUT Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic), Prof Deus Ngaruko, noted that the university had been gearing up for the control of exams leakage as one of the crucial areas for quality assurance in the provision of higher education. He said OUT planned to send some of its staff to go and learn from other open universities on exams control. However, he noted that OUT had earned a lot of respect and recognition from other African countries for the efficient provision of distance learning.