THE Kilimanjaro business community has been urged to exploit banks’ offered opportunities in a bid to grow their businesses. The advice was given by Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC) Anna Mghwira when opening CRDB Bank seminar organised for the region’s businesspersons in Moshi yesterday. The RC said the main idea for CRDB to organise such workshop was for entrepreneurs to adopt business skills and grow their businesses through affordable loans, but still it’s a bound duty for businesspersons to come forward and grab the opportunities. She further said the government in collaboration with local development partners, such as CRDB, is seriously laying down conducive business environment including accessing loans to accelerate economic growth. She further said CRDB innovation in uplifting and expanding entrepreneur status vividly showed how supportive was the bank to the government’s initiative in building a sustainable economy that touches every productive areas of the economy. The seminar that brought together the region’s various businesspersons aimed at showcasing opportunities offered by CRDB that centered on uplifting the status of entrepreneurs in Kilimanjaro. Regarding hawkers ‘machingas’ in the region, the RC asked the bank to come with an innovative products specifically to cater for them, who also have tangible contribution to the economy. “The government has already issued petty traders with identity cards, the bank should go further and introduce specific affordable loans catering for them, so they too expand their businesses,” Ms Mghwila said. CRDB Chief Executive Officer, Abdulmajid Nsekela, said there isn’t successful business could expand without increasing its capital base. The bank’s aim is to open a business opportunity floodgate that among other things enables businesspersons to also networking. “Let me use this opportunity to assure entrepreneurs in Kilimanjaro that CRDB is fully prepared to make sure that everyone attains his or her financial service needs,” Mr Nsekela said. He further noted that the bank also has a special microfinance window for micro, small and medium enterprises. The seminar is part of the bank’s strategy to reach its customers and educate them on various services that they could tap. Similar seminars had been conducted in Mwanza, Arusha, Iringa and Dodoma.