AFTER Jeshi Stars endured a difficult time at the just ended African Zone 5 Volleyball Club Championship in Kigali Rwanda, the Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) official said more investments were needed in the sport. Jeshi Stars which was the only Tanzania envoy in the men’s tournament that drew 12 teams from Uganda, Ethiopia, Burundi and hosts Rwanda ended recently at the Amahoro Indoor Stadium in Kigali, returned home mid this week. TAVA Secretary Alfred Selengia, who accompanied the team to Kigali, told the ‘Daily News’ that they have learnt their lessons from the tournament. Selengia also attended the Zonal General Meeting said that it was good thing to have the team competing at event regardless of the results. He said it was a befitting test for Jeshi Stars, who were making their comeback in the international tournament after missing out for several years. Jeshi Stars lost all their matches in the tournament. Tanzania Prisons, Police and JKT were among teams from Tanzania expected at the event before withdrawing. “It was a good experience for Jeshi Stars, though the results were not encouraging due to several reasons including lack of international competitions for some years,” he said. He also said that Jeshi Stars lost to better sides, while also saying heavy investments made by other clubs in the region put Jeshi Stars out of contention. “Most top teams in the region have professional players from different countries… they are really far compared to us and this is a good lesson we have taken from this event. “I’m sure Jeshi Stars learned a lot. If you have to match other top clubs, there is no any other way than go out there and see how it is done,” said Selengia. He stressed that it is time now that the public and private companies and institutions to step forward to support the sport. Host Gisagara was crowned champion after beating their country rival Rwanda Energy Group (REG) team by 3-1 sets. Tanzania top player Jackson Mmary plays professional volleyball at REG since 2017.