KAGERA Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi has cautioned residents against taking the law into their own hands, instead they should report the people they suspect to engage in criminal incidents to nearby police stations for action. He also appealed to residents to report to the police gender-based violence (GBV) desk and collectively fight against outdated laws, customs and practices that contribute to keeping millions of women backyard. Mr Malimi was reacting to a story published by ‘Daily News’ on Tuesday, where Ms Janarathi Chrisostom (25) from Chanika Village in Karagwe District narrated how she narrowly escaped death after she was assaulted by her husband using a kitchen knife. She said the incident took place on December 30, 2017. "I was assaulted by my husband at Chanika Village. He used a kitchen knife and stabbed me several times. I was admitted to Nyakahanga District Hospital for three months. I later filed a case at Kayanga Police Station, but to-date no action has been taken against the culprit, who is still walking scot-free," she recounted as her eyes brimmed with tears. Mr Malimi noted that such acts, if left unchecked, could possibly lead to the breach of the peace, promising to make a follow-up. "Unfortunately, the victimised woman has no mobile phone. I have directed the regional community development officer to contact Ms Chrisostom to enable us to take necessary action against the culprit," he said. He noted that gender-based violence, remained a major health and human rights concern and no human development could be achieved as long as women and girls continued suffering from it or living in fear of it. Explaining the magnitude of the problem, Mr Malimi said millions of women and girls were subjected to all forms of violence, including rape, intimate partner violence, female genital mutilation, child marriage and sexual violence. He added that all those forms of abuse left the victims in a prolonged psychological pain. Gender-based violence includes domestic violence, sexual harassment, rape, sexual violence and harmful traditional practices such as female genital mutilation, forced marriage and other crimes such as trafficking in women, forced prostitution and human rights violations in armed conflict in particular murder, systematic rape, sexual slavery and forced pregnancy, forced sterilisation, forced abortion, coercive use of contraceptives, female infanticide and prenatal sex selection.