STAKEHOLDERS have been reminded to continue providing education on stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV in order to encourage majority of the population to go for testing. The Programme Manager of National Council of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Tanzania (NACOPHA), Ms Agnes Nyoni said this in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the commemoration of Zero Discrimination Day. She said due to stigma and discrimination to the people with HIV from the public, majority of people are discouraged to take HIV tests, fearing to be discriminated when found to be infected with the disease. "We are here today to use this day for discussion and sharing opinions with various stakeholders on how we can set and come up with useful strategic plan to raise public awareness on controlling stigma and discrimination to people with HIV through education," she said. According to her, due to stigma and discrimination, majority of people are discouraged from taking HIV test while others who are HIV positive fear to go for Antiretroviral (ARVs), a situation which affects the efforts to fight against the disease. In her testimony, the NACOPHA Chairman in Ilala Municipality, Pastor Emmanuel Msinga advised religious leaders to use their position to educate their believers on the insignificance of stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. "Stigma and discrimination to the people with HIV is still a great challenge in our societies. Sometimes even in houses of worship people with HIV have been discriminated and considered great sinners," he lamented. In his opening remarks, TACAIDS Director of Communication, Mr Jumanne Issango said through commemoration of Zero Discrimination Day the public will be aware of how to control stigma and discrimination to people with HIV. Zero Discrimination Day is observed on March 1st and it aims to address the issue of discrimination faced by people with HIV across the world. The day further intends to achieve equality before the law throughout all member countries of the United Nations.