THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam has directed the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to arrest two foreigners, one from United Kingdom and the other from Germany, allegedly linked with operating a pyramid scheme involving 17bn/-. An advertisement published by this paper last week shows that the foreigners, Manon Elisabeth Hubenthal, a resident of Greven in Germany and Frank Robert Ricketts, who resides at Blackwats, in the United Kingdom, are facing money laundering and five other charges. Other charges, according to the charge sheet filed by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) before the court, include conspiracy to commit an offence, money laundering and unlawful operating a pyramid scheme. Such charges against the two foreigners, who are both directors with IMS Marketing Tanzania Limited, fall under the Penal Code and Anti-Money Laundering Act, read together with the First Schedule of the Economic and Organised Crimes Control Act. “You are hereby directed to arrest the said (…) to answer the charges and be dealt with in accordance to the law,” reads part of the arrest warrant published in the newspaper. Court records show that Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi has been assigned to hear the matter. Recently, the magistrate granted the prosecution’s request to have the two foreigners summoned after they failed to appear before the court. Senior State Attorney Christopher Msigwa represented the prosecution during the session. Due to the absence of the two accused persons, the magistrate has adjourned the case to March 27, 2019, for mention, pending the arraignment of the two foreigners. According to the charge sheet filed in court, the two foreigners are accused of conspiring to manage and conduct a pyramid scheme between November 1, 2014 and October 30, 2017 in Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that within the same time in the city and different places within the United Republic of Tanzania and other places within United Kingdom and Federal Republic of Germany, jointly and together, the accused managed and conducted the pyramid scheme. The accused allegedly collected money from the public on promise to individual owners of the money to receive sums of money or return which given all commercial consideration is greater than the money collected. On money laundering charges, the accused are alleged to have directly engaged in a transaction involving money by directing a total sum of 1,351,597.79 US dollars to be credited to a bank account maintained at Bank of Africa (BOA) Bank Limited in the name of the said company. In another related offence, within the same period and places in Dar es Salaam, United Kingdom and Federal Republic of Germany, the accused allegedly engaged in transaction involving money by directing 5,377,306.56 Euros to be credited to a bank account maintained at BOA Bank. It is claimed that the accused knew or ought to have known that the said money was the proceeds of predicate offence of managing and conducting a pyramid scheme. Late last year, two people, including a Kenyan, were arraigned before the same court charged with conspiracy, operating a pyramid scheme and money laundering involving a sum of over 1bn/-. They were Jones Mushi and Kenyan James Gathonjia, who are all Directors of Rifaro Africa Limited, a limited liability company fully registered in Tanzania that deals with sales and distribution of airtime, software development and software leasing services. It was alleged that on diverse dates between July 14, 2014 and July 31, 2016, within the city of Dar es Salaam, the two accused conspired together to commit an offence of conducting a pyramid scheme. Within the same period in Dar es Salaam and different places in the United Republic of Tanzania, the accused conducted a pyramid scheme by collecting money from the public, promising individual owners to receive money or return greater than the money collected. It was claimed further that within the same period and places, the accused engaged themselves in a transaction involving money, the sum of 1,022,560,854/-, which was proceeds of predicate offence. According to the prosecution, the accused directed the said amount to be credited in a bank account held at Kenya Commercial Bank (T) Limited in the name of Rifaro Africa Limited, while they knew or ought to have known that the sum was the proceeds of an offence of conducting a pyramid scheme. Hardly five years ago, the same court sentenced four officials with Development Entrepreneurship for Community Initiative (DECI) to six years in jail for operating a pyramid scheme in the country illegally. They were Jackson Sifael Mtares, Dominick Kigendi, Timotheo Saigaran ole Loitginye and Samwel Sifael Mtares, who were all directors of DECI. The court had ordered them to serve the said custodian sentence if they would fail to pay a fine of 21m/- each. They paid the fine to escape the jail term.