THE Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga, has urged scholars and scientists under the African Society of Forensic Medicine (ASFM) to come up with proposals and strategies on how to support efforts to provide optimal criminal investigations and disaster management. Officiating at the eight ASFM in Dar es Salaam on Monday on behalf of Vice- President, Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan, Ambassador Mahiga said that given the fact that quality living is a human right but very expensive to achieve, he believed the conference will come up with realistic proposals that are doable. “The quest to improve criminal investigations, reduce the possibilities of wrongful convictions and enhancing national security have compelled scholars and scientists from various disciplines to join efforts in addressing these challenges … I believe this conference will come up with realistic proposals that are doable,” said Ambassador Mahiga. He told scholars, scientists and professionals of different disciplines from Africa, Asia, Europe and America that in recent times, the field of forensic science has been a cross-cutting one, touching other fields. Dr Mahiga mentioned some of the fields as pathology, forensic anthropology, mass disasters, archaeology, criminal investigation, cyber forensic, forensic medicine and forensic toxicology. He added that the interplay of the subject has made people from various profession and scientific backgrounds to meet and share knowledge and best practices. “I am delighted that this conference is being attended by participants from other continents … this is a testimony of a good work that the African Forensic Society is doing in creating partnerships and collaboration with other associations and professionals in forensic disciplines. This is indeed a commendable achievement. Congratulations!” he issued. The minister noted that in most African countries, forensic disciplines are less developed and the few existing are currently experiencing human resource crisis. He said that it affects both knowledge production as well as lifesaving skills during disasters and identification of remains of the loved ones in case of deaths. “To-date, training has not been commensurate to population growth and the need for forensic services. The small number of forensic scientists in the African continent should, however, not deter efforts of instituting quality assurance measures for improving the forensic professional practices,” he said. Ambassador Mahiga commended ASFM’s initiative to establish a College of Forensic Science across the African continent under its umbrella, adding that it was his hope the initiative will not only improve the quality of training in forensic science in Africa, but also the quality standards of the forensic investigations and saving people from distress situations. He assured the conference of the Tanzania government’s commitment and determination to improve the forensic field activities. He unveiled to them that to date; the Tanzania Police Force is collaborating with the University of Dodoma in providing training in forensic science. He pledged the government’s continued support in research, training and best practices at the desirable level depending on the availability of resources. The minister launched the Tanzania Association of Forensic Sciences (TAFS) that he said he believed would spearhead the development of various forensic fields in the country.