DEPUTY Minister for Water, Jumaa Aweso has reminded the public to pay their water bills on time for the sector to source funds and improve water infrastructure especially in rural areas accordingly. Mr Aweso made the call recently, while addressing the public in a Water Week climax day in Dar es Salaam that commenced on March 16 to 22, and further reminded water authorities to avoid overcharging their customers or imposing unwarranted bills on them. The Deputy Minister noted that since every member of the public has a right to get clean and safe water, they were also obliged to pay their water bills too in order to support the country’s effort in improving the sector and offer related services to others and address challenges facing it. In his speech, he cited poor supervision of some irresponsible Water Engineers and vandalism as some of the major challenges facing them in their implementation of big projects. “In solving the challenge, the government established Rural Water Agency to fast-tract the execution of water projects in the country. Through the new act of Water Agency, all Water Engineers will work under the Ministry of Water for us to be easy to deal with them,” he said. Commenting at the event, Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA) Director of Water Production and Distribution, Eng Aron Joseph said the authority was making sure that it completes all the big water projects by 95 per cent by 2020. According to him, DAWASA has strived to bring service of clean and safe water to the areas, where it has not reached before. He said the achievement reached after DAWASA allocated 35 per cent of its revenue as a result of their customers paying the monthly water bills. “To-date about 10 big water projects have been earmarked for implementation in separate rural and urban areas of Dar es Salaam Region, where four of them are still in progress and six have already completed,” he pointed out. However, he said in commemoration of this year’s Water Week, DAWASA was still receiving complaints from customers, detailing that 70 per cent of them out of 150 have immediate solutions. Eng Joseph said most of the complaints seemed to be related to bill payments, where some of the customers claimed that they do not know how to make payments, while others claimed about being over charged their bills.