…As they criticise opposition for lack of agenda, vision POLITICIANS and academicians have defended Mr Edward Lowassa’s decision to re-join the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), criticising the opposition in the country for lack of a clear agenda and vision. Giving their views on the decision made by former Prime Minister to re-join CCM on Friday, they said members of the public should never blame the political heavyweight, saying as a politician he learnt that his political ambition would never be fulfilled no matter how long he stayed with Chadema. They said Mr Lowassa did not join the opposition party after being attracted by their political agenda, rather he saw an opportunity that would perhaps fulfil his political ambition of becoming the country’s fifth phase president during the 2015 general election. But, they warned that Mr Lowassa’s return to CCM would inflict a heavy blow on the opposition given his influence on members of the public. The University of Dar es Salaam Senior Lecturer, Dr Benson Bana, said in an interview with the ‘Sunday News’ yesterday that normally politicians strove after power (leadership) and when stumbling blocks arose on their way they would always look for alternative ways to fulfil their ambition. “It is not a criminal offence for politicians to defect from one political party to the other. Politicians always associate themselves with political parties to which they believe their political ambitions can be fulfilled,” Dr Bana said. He added: “Mr Lowassa was nominated by Chadema to be the party’s presidential flag bearer in 2015 because of his political influence not because the opposition party had a clear development agenda to the nation.” According to Dr Bana, building strong democracy in any political party is not an overnight practice, especially in society, where individuals perceive politics as a means to earn a living. He said political parties in Tanzania should strive after solidifying internal democracy, including coming up with a realistic development agenda that could win people’s hearts. Dr Bana added that, a political party should never act as personal property, rather it should be seen as an institution. “As a party you do not wait to incorporate people, who defect in your own to become leaders, but needs to groom people from within to believe in its agenda to lead,” he commented. He added that Chadema needed to learn to solve its problems from within and tolerate each other even those with different views. “Chadema began powerfully, but now it’s not performing well. They need to galvanise support from the grassroots, appealing to the youth with something to offer to them.” “Many defections to CCM that occurred from 2015 to date are enough to remove public trust from the opposition. Failing to retain people in your party may lead people to think of how you can lead the entire nation.” However, he noted opportunities were still there for opposition parties. “Leaders need to sit down, re-think and assess their party’s agenda on how they can offer to its people,” he advised. “Tanzania has a great future in developing political pluralism, but political parties must have their agenda. They need to come with an alternative agenda, views that will build and develop the country rather than just criticising what the ruling party is doing,” commented Dr Bana. On the other hand, former CCM Vice National Chairman Pius Msekwa said there were two basic reasons for a person to defect from a party that included push and pull factors. “Mr Lowassa had an ambition of becoming a president. He was frustrated and pushed out of CCM and for that matter he could not fulfil his ambition there and found an opportunity to satisfy his drive in Chadema.” “He joined Chadema, but ultimately he lost and did not satisfy his need, hence there was no point for him to continue remaining and that is why he was pulled back to CCM,” noted Mr Msekwa. “He left for a specific reason and now he is back.” Commenting on the future of Chadema he said the party should have realised by now that people joined their party for a particular reason be it a pull or push factor and those, who remained mean they were satisfied, while those, who left had not yet met their drive. “Tanzanians should understand that political parties are just doors or routes that propel people into leadership positions. “Until opposition parties find a known agenda that is clear and they stick to it they will continue being used as a transportation device for politicians to achieve their drive of becoming leaders,” he said. Meanwhile, Civic United Front (CUF) leader Julius Mtatiro said the decision of Mr Lowassa to re-join CCM was a big blow to the opposition. “Opposition witnessed Mr Lowassa’s power during the 2015 election and took advantage of it. They managed to get most votes (6 million) then and those, who love him will and vote for him and are likely to shift to CCM,” he said. This should be a wakeup call and time to assess the opposition. “Currently, there are a lot of mistakes in the party mostly due to selfishness. Once a person shifts, it should not be taken lightly as it may break people’s trust why they are defecting, instead of finding an alternative way to lead.” “The future of opposition depends on how they sit down and try to solve their problems within the party, instead of hiding and neglecting them,” he advised. “If they will not sit down to identify their problems, accept them and solve them, opposition parties will continue to be weakened. They will not die, but they will weaken,” he stressed.