SIMBA have experienced dark days in away venues in their CAF Champions League safari, but there in Algeria, the storm clouds must return – literally and metaphorically. Simba are facing tricky hosts JS Saoura in Algeria tomorrow. The little known wildcats are likely to seek a sweet revenge after being banged three times in their group D campaign opener in Dar es Salaam. Though Simba have not secured an away win since climbing on the group stage arena, we believe our envoys can make it this time in Algeria despite all odds. The best of their entire campaign was painted on the wings of Mbabane Swallows, whom Simba handed heaviest home and away defeats. Simba should go there with the spirit they had against Mbabane Swallows, the team that gave them a brilliant 8-1 aggregate win. That means if they beat Algerians in Dar es Salaam they must do all they can to beat them again in Algeria and end they away venue horror. Simba must win by any margin if they are to advance to the next stage and a win will ease them a pressure when they face AS Vita in their last group stage game of Dar es Salaam. Granted, a lot of water has gone under the bridge and Simba is not the same. The nucleus of the team in terms of playing personnel, Meddie Kagere, Johh Bocco, Cletous Chama, Jonas Mkude are there to continue making Simba a swashbuckling side that has done the unthinkable. After heavy away defeats to AS Vita and Al Ahly, players should not let the away venue misfortune torture their mind; rather it should be an awakening call for attitude changes. They failed to make in two last games, but they can do it this time in Algeria. The 5-0 scoreline Simba received in the two away games looks scary whichever way you look at it but it doesn’t mean that ordinary Algerian side can achieve them as did AS Vita or Al Ahly. Simba should know JS Saoura are just ordinary side in group D and can overcome JS Saoura at home, especially if they can manage to avoid conceding silly goals, which was their Achilles Heel in Kinshasa and Alexandria. All the best Simba, make Algerian mission accomplished.