THE East African Community (EAC) partner states have resolved to work together to control illegal fishing in Lake Victoria. It is a strategy put in place by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda to safeguard resources so that they are sustainable and are used to enhance the economies of the said nations. The agreement was reached at a meeting of fishing sector ministers that was held at the EAC Headquarters here. The Vice-President of the EAC Ministerial Council, Mr Luhaga Mpina, said the decision would enhance fishing capacity as well as its products in Lake Victoria, leading to economic perfection for citizens who live around the lake as well as partner states. Mr Mpina said that it was strange that people in EAC used to import fish from countries that had no lakes while Lake Victoria was able to supply fish to the whole African population if the lake was well maintained. He revealed that there were fish under 50cm that were 96.3 per cent, but after efforts were undertaken to control illegal fishing, the percentage of fishing small fish had dropped to 62.8 per cent that is acceptable. In the lake, he said, fish between 50cm to 80cm that were allowed to be fished were 3.3 per cent only but now, after a year, they had increased to 32 per cent. Those between 80cm and 85cm were in a range of 0.4 per cent but were now 5.2 per cent due to efforts put in place by partner states. “I congratulate partner states from the deep of my heart, specifically Uganda for good work; I thank Kenya also for what they have done as well as Tanzania. I am sure when we come later we will find that there is no longer illegal fishing,” said Mr Mpina. The minister said that in the operation, on the part of Tanzania nets that measure 45,000 kilometres were found and he commended all three countries for being keen in the operations and in collecting research information to help the partner states in their plans to manage the resources. “Today we have made great resolutions for conducting joint operations so as to safeguard our lake (Lake Victoria) and fight illegal fishing as well as other illegal business in fishing products,” said Mr Mpina. Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) is a specialised institution of the East African Community located in the City of Kisumu, Republic of Kenya and within the Lake Victoria Basin (LVB). The Commission is mandated to coordinate sustainable development and management of the Lake Victoria Basin in the five EAC Partner States. Before 1954, Lake Victoria’s ecology was characterised by enormous biodiversity. It was inhabited by over 500 species of fish, 90 per cent of which were cichlids belonging to the haplochromines. They are thought to have evolved in Lake Victoria within the last 15,000 years. They are known for their extraordinary ability to evolve rapidly to suit extremely localised and diverse environments, a characteristic termed ‘evolutionary plasticity’. The ability has made the cichlid species of Lake Victoria an extremely successful fish. Haplochromine species accounted for some 80 per cent of the fish biomass of the lake. It also meant that Lake Victoria at one time boasted one of the most diverse fish environments on earth. With such diversity, the cichlids of Lake Victoria managed to exploit virtually every food source available, including most detritus, zooplankton and phytoplankton. Labour inflows into the fishery have increased along with growing demand. In 1983, there were an estimated 12,041 boats on the lake. By 2004, there were 51,712, and 153,066 fishermen. The fishery also generates indirect employment for additional multitudes of fish processors, transporters, factory employees and others. All along the lakeshore, boom towns have developed in response to the demands of fishing crews with money to spend from a day’s fishing. The towns resemble shanties, and have little in the way of services. Of the 1,433 landing sites identified in the 2004 frame survey, just 20 per cent had communal lavatory facilities, four per cent were served by electricity and six per cent were served by a potable water supply.