THE implementation of e-Health Strategy in the country has improved the quality and access of healthcare services, especially to majority of rural population with limited access to health facilities. The government adopted e-Health Strategy in order to ensure provision of quality services to all Tanzanians. Presenting a topic on implementation status of e-health in Tanzania in Dar es Salaam yesterday in a session hosted by Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF), an Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Officer from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ms Sultana Seiff, said that e-Health use had grown rapidly over the past three years. “There has been a huge improvement in e-health use in the country over the past three years following the support from the healthcare personnel in its implementation,” Ms Seiff noted. She said that in 2015, most of healthcare workers were unwilling to adopt e-health due to lack of awareness. Ms Seiff further remarked: “To date, e-health has been accepted by 90 per cent of healthcare providers who have contributed greatly in its implementation.” She added that e-health had grown up to 70 per cent as most of the things are being done through ICT. She observed that e-health had helped in tracking and monitoring health logistics such as availability of medicines. It has also facilitated the availability of health services in remote areas. She cited Ololosokwan Village in Arusha whose residents access quality services through e-health. Ms Seiff also noted that immunisation services had also been improved since the health facilities could now track records of children who receive vaccination and make follow ups on those who miss the dose. For her part, Dr Serafina Mkuwa from The African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF) Programme Manager, Reproductive, Maternal and Newborn Child and Adolescent Health, said that her organisation was implementing M-Health known as M–Vaccination which was being implemented in Shinyanga and Geita. She said the government had taken initiatives to improve the health sector in the country such as implementation of ehealth strategy which focuses on the use of computers and phones. The government is now taking the leadership in ICT and this will help to coordinate various stakeholders who implement e-health programmes in various districts. This will also help to improve the entire health system in respective districts and also in provision and accessibility of the services due to the changes. The government has charted strategies and guidelines which will help all stakeholders in implementing the available strategies and encourage innovations. Technical Director for HDIF Muzafar Kaemdin said that the workshop brought together the government and development partners to discuss how they could work together to have electronic health information systems which are efficient and effective.