AFTER several months of peace, car hijacking is back again. A group of eight heavily armed bandits ambushed two public vehicles plying between Kahama and Lusahunga, robbing passengers of their properties and also wounding others. Speaking on the incident, Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revocatus Malimi said it occurred at about 7.30pm on Wednesday evening in Machinjioni, Kalenge Village, in Biharamulo District. He explained that the bandits ambushed a Hiace (T538 BHM) plying between Kahama and Kibondo by firing several bullets also hitting a hind tyre. As the bandits were searching passengers, another Hiace (T152 EDL) also arrived and the passengers were robbed of their properties, including two computer sets, several bags and unspecified amount of money. The bandits also wounded two passengers identified as Mr Samuel Emmanuel (28), who was admitted to Runzewe Health Centre and Mr Haji Aron (31), who was admitted to Kakonko Hospital. Following the incident, the police have mounted an operation, calling for cooperation from residents to offer valuable information that would lead to the arrest of the culprits. Three people, including a Burundian, were killed in a police shoot-out in Biharamulo District. Mr Malimi told reporters that the incident occurred on March 16, this year, in Kichaka Cheusi, Lusahunga Ward, in Biharamulo District. He named two of the killed bandits as Mr Eric Samson (18), a Burundian residing in Benaco Village, Ngara District, and Mr Shaban Nyangote (40). The third bandit was yet to be identified. He explained that the three bandits were arrested by police, but as they were leading police detectives at about 9pm to show them the place they were using as a hideout, they attacked the police, causing the latter to respond. “Two bandits died on the spot, while the third one died after arriving at Biharamulo Designated District Hospital (DDH),” he said. Mr Malimi noted that the police also recovered one gun, AK 47, with two magazines. "One of the bandits (Nyangote) is believed to have been involved in several armed robberies where he escaped," he noted. He explained that the bodies of the three bandits were being preserved at Biharamulo District Hospital, calling for residents to show up and identify them and also offer valuable information concerning them.