UPBEAT Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said his charges are ready to break Algeria’s JS Saoura’s unbeaten home record in CAF Champions League, ahead of their Saturday’s reverse match. The match will be staged at the 20,000 capacity Stade 20 Août 1955 in hot desert Méridja town, situated in western Algeria The country’s flag bearers in the continental top tier clubs showpiece are set to depart today for the return match eager to grab crucial points and stand a chance to step into the quarter finals of the contest. They already have a positive record over the Algerians having defeated them 3-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first round. Simba are second in group D with six points after four matches, one point behind leaders Al Ahly of Egypt, who have garnered seven points from the same number of matches. Their Algerian opponents JS Saoura are third on the log with five points, while AS Vita from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) tails the group with four points. Speaking to members of the media following their 2-0 triumph against Stand United in the Mainland Premier League match held at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga on Sunday, Aussems said he is not afraid with the current good home record by their opponents since everything has the beginning and an end. “It is true that JS Saoura have not lost any match in the ongoing CAF Champions League group stage but we are ready to break that and collect maximum three points there,” the Belgian said. He added that so far, he has observed that every team in the competition is doing well in their respective home matches just like the way his side has done in the past two games. On his part, the team’s central defender Pascal Wawa said their winning mentality in the top flight league has added a motivating factor among the players hence they are eager to snatch first away points of the biggest continental club football competition. “We have been winning our matches in the league and that is surely a positive thing for us. However, Champions league is a different competition as such, the most important thing is for us to motivate each other in order to excel on Saturday,” Wawa who has enjoyed more playing time at Simba under the tutelage of Aussems said. Adding, the Cote d’Ivoire defender revealed that he is enjoying his time at Simba such that he is ready and willing to play well with any partner in defensive role. “I am experienced enough to play with my colleagues as a team and this is what I cherish most,” he said. Commenting on the game itself against Stand United, the 32-year old player said winning is what matters most in any competition as such; he is pleased with the current form of the Msimbazi Street based giants. Also, the team’s versatile defender Erasto Nyoni, who has been sidelined for a couple of matches due to injury lauded Aussems for his player-rotation system, saying that enables each player to be part of the squad. “As you know, Simba has a depth in its squad with quality players capable to make a difference when given the chance. This is so because we rely on each other meaning that when one misses, others take up the opportunity and work for the team,” Nyoni said. Asked whether he is fit enough to face JS Saoura this Saturday, Nyoni responded, “Let’s hope so.”