SOME Dar es Salaam traders have expressed hopes on safety of their monies and rise of sales after introduction of visa on mobile payments service. The Visa, a global payments technology company, last week unveiled its service in the country, following same in other African countries like Kenya, Nigeria and Ghana. ‘ Daily News’ spot survey in the city, noticed a number of stores, particularly in the city centre and Sinza area, displaying Visa service placards on their doors. The dealers separately acknowledged that the visa payments technology would be securing their monies from robbers and increase sales. Mr Mohamed Omary, site manager of Puma Upanga supermarket, said the visa service would make them avoid transporting cash to banks, which is risky business. “The new digital service has also boosted our sales because many customers don’t walk with cash, therefore it’s easy for them to buy with Visa,” he said. He also noted that many his customers welcomed the new service and others were eager to know how it operates. A seller at Jaim Store located at Sinza area, Ms Neema Charles, explained that in the past customers who did not carry cash have to go out to draw from the Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) for buying items from her boutiq ue. “But, now things have been simplified. They can pay through Visa,” she said. Managing Director of Vivo Energy Tanzania, which brands as Engen, Mr Paul Muhato, said their supermarkets and petrol stations have also been connected to the system. He said now motorists can pay for fuel through Visa, something which would enable them get rid of driving to ATMs to get cash for refuelling their cars. Samaki Samaki company also said the Visa has come to give their customers another choice in payments. Ms Saumu W engert, Samaki Samaki’s development manager, said they now discourage cash payment considering it’s risky. Visa on mobile is the global payment system which enables consumers to access their funds directly from their bank accounts via mobile banking app to pay merchants, send money to individuals, as well as deposit, or withdraw cash at any Visa agent. Following its launch in the country, several city traders joined the system.