John Magufuli has lauded Taifa Stars for a good game that eventually earned a 3-0 win over Uganda Cranes and a ticket to play in AFCON Finals. Magufuli, who spoke to Tanzanians shortly after the end of the thrilling match, said he was impressed with the Stars game and all goals the team netted. “I am delighted to see the good game Stars displayed and beautiful goals they netted, I am now satisfied and comfortable. Good work Taifa Stars,” said President Magufuli. The President said while watching Stars- Cranes match he was also keen following a match of Taifa Stars rivals; Cape Veede vs Lesotho until it ended. He said he was happy to see it ends in a barren draw to the advantage of Taifa Stars. Tanzania has eventually picked up a ticket to the 32nd Total Africa Cup of Nations Taifa Stars convincing 3-0 win over the Uganda Cranes at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Simon Msuva, Erasto Nyoni and Aggrey Morris were the heroes of the nation yesterday as their goals brought the much sought fortune. Playing before the fully packed arena, Taifa Stars played a matured game style, with emphasis on swift play and short passes upfront with skipper Mbwana Samatta leading his team mates. Simon Msuva was the first to open the goal account 12th minute when he fired home a deflected shot that easily beat Cranes giant goalie Dennis Onyango. The teams ended the first half with Taifa Stars leading 1-0. What followed after was a one sided game that turned the statistics in favour of the hosts. At the 50th minute Erasto Nyoni netted the second through a spotkick after Cranes defender handed the ball inside the box. A few minutes later Aggrey Morris header finished off Uganda Cranes and handed them heaviest defeat of the campaign. In the 70th minute, Amunike brought in Himid Mao for Farid Mussa and ten minutes later benched off John Bocco for Feisal Salum. It was the vital victory for coach Emanuel Amunike who took the team last year. Tanzania qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations finals ending a 39- year wait. Led by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who was accompanied by the Minister responsible with sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, Taifa Stars won the match and hearts of Tanzanians to finish second with 8 points, while Uganda remained at the top with 13 points, while Taifa Stars rivals, Lesotho and Cape Verde drew 0-0 to finish third and fourth respectively. T anzania first played in AFCON finals in 1980 after eliminating Zambia on 3-2 aggregate win. Taifa skipper Mbwana Samatta inspired much the team’s victory, his presence created confidence and fighting spirit to his team mates. Skipper Samatta, Simon Msuva, John Bocco, Erasto Nyoni and Agrey Morris, Gadiel Michael and goalkeeper Aishi Manula played brilliant on the day. Almost a similar picture came in 1980 when Tanzania qualified after eliminating Zambia. The campaign hero then was Peter Tino who scored a vital equaliser in Ndola Zambia that earned Tanzania its first AFCON ticket in 1980.