TANZANIA has sent its condolences to bereaved families and all countries that lost their citizens in the plane crash that killed 157 people in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia on Sunday. In a message relayed via his tweeter account, President John Magufuli remarked: “I am deeply saddened to hear about the crash of the Ethiopian Airlines' Boeing 737…. which occurred early today. I seize this occasion to express my profound condolences to all the bereaved families and to all Heads of State whose people's lives have been claimed by this accident." On its part, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, said in a statement: “The government of the United Republic of Tanzania is joining all other people who have been touched by the big tragedy, to convey our heartfelt condolences to all the nations that lost their citizens in that accident. In a show of solidarity, the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) has commiserated with their Ethiopian counterparts following the tragic accident of the Ethiopian Airlines ET 302 that crashed on Sunday shortly after taking off from Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa. In a statement availed to the media on Sunday evening, the country’s aviation authority, through its Director General, Mr Hamza Johari said it was saddened by the incident. “Our deepest and heartfelt condolences go out to the families of the passengers and crews who lost their lives…this is a tragic accident affecting the global aviation community; we shall wait for further reports to establish what really went wrong on the flight,” read part of the condolence message from TCAA. The Boeing 737-800MAX crashed around the town of Bishoftu, 60kilometers southeast of the capital. It was travelling to Nairobi, Kenya. There is no indication that a technical problem was to blame for the crash of the Boeing 737-800 MAX operated by Ethiopian Airlines on Sunday which crashed minutes after taking off from Addis Ababa bound for Nairobi. An investigation by aviation experts and analysis of the black box flight recorders is expected to shed light on the causes of the crash. The Kenyan government has set up a support centre at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Relatives and friends of passengers in the crashed plane are receiving information at the centres set up at Terminal ID and Four Points By Sheraton Hotel that is within the airport. A US-based independent agency that investigates aviation accidents, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has said that it will send a team to help investigate the Ethiopian Airlines crash.