THE Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDT) in collaboration with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has expressed willingness to work with the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) in implementing epayment strategy to ensure beneficiaries are able to adopt, use and derive value from digital transaction. Such a move follows an appeal from the beneficiaries of the poverty alleviation programme to acquire financial management skills in maintaining a more sustained income. FSDT Executive Director, Mr Sothenes Kewe observed during a meeting with the management of TASAF held in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, citing that the initiative is anticipated to come up with account ownership models that will meet the needs of beneficiaries. According to Mr Kewe the plan will be in line with the developed Gender Action Plan (GAP) that is expected to be integrated in phase II of the productive social safety net programme. “The GAP provides a roadmap for the [Productive Social Safety Net] PSSN II programme, by detailing key priorities for women’s economic empowerment considering that out of five recipients of the cash grants, four are women. “Based on recent pilot data, only 31 per cent of women opted for e-payments, citing lack of mobile phone ownership and low awareness of mobile money transactions,” noted Mr Kewe. TASAF Executive Director (ED), Mr Ladislaus Mwamanga demonstrated strong interest into the adoption of the initiative, pointing out that a large part of the programme has given a priority to women therefore the plan is going to be implemented as per the requirements of the government. Meanwhile, a team from the Department for International Development (DFID) carried out a visit at Dovya in Temeke Municipal Council whereby they met and held talk with the beneficiaries of the programme. During the visit, the beneficiaries requested for support on how to manage their funds accumulated through their TASAF village community banks (V ICOBA). The Chairperson of Dovya V ICOBA group, Khadija Yusuf disclosed several challenges including people not repaying their loans, failure to invest shares and lack of show up during their meet which is impeding the sustainability of the groups.