MEMBERS of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Services have unanimously agreed to push for an increase on the budget for the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports in the 2019/2020 Financial Year so that the ministry can be able to implement projects. The move came after the minister in charge of the docket requested the committee to look on the possibilities of increasing the ministry’s budget before the budget session scheduled to kick off on Tuesday next week. Led by the Committee Chairperson, Peter Serukamba, all committee members agreed that the ministry’s budget be increased to at least the same budget that was approved by parliament in the 2018/2019 Financial Year. During the 2018/2019 Financial Year, the August House endorsed 33.3bn/- for recurrent and development votes and according to Dr Mwakyembe, as of February 2019, the ministry had received 19.2bn/- which is equivalent to 58 per cent. Presenting the 2018/2019 budget implementation report and the budget ceiling for the 2019/2020 Financial Year, Dr Mwakyembe said his ministry had faced numerous challenges in this financial year, including lack of funds for improvement of national stadiums. The minister requested the committee to endorse 30.9bn/- for recurrent and development expenditure, the estimates that have so far been approved by the Parliamentary Budget Committee. According to him, during the 2019/2020 Financial Year, his ministry was expecting to collect 959.9m/- from the Departments of Habari-MAELEZO and Sports while another 37.3bn/- was expected to be collected from institutions under the ministry. In the next financial year, he added, his ministry in collaboration with other stakeholders was expecting to carry out its activities of informing the community on the implementation of various government policies in all sectors, including what will be going on in information, culture, arts and sports. “The ministry will equally continue to intensify accountability in the state owned media outlets of Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) and Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) so that they can produce the best content that will compete with the privately owned media outlets,’’ he said. Dr Mwakyembe further added that his ministry will continue improving the Sports Development Policy of 1995, Cultural Policy of 1997 as well as enacting the film policy. He said the ministry will also continue making several researches that will lead to protection of the country’s culture and traditions. “The ministry will continue to improve the sports sector by taking several steps, including improvement of all sport facilities in collaboration with various stakeholders," he said.