EXPORT Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) has said investors from Syria and other Asian countries have expressed interest to grab the immense untapped opportunities in the manufacturing sector. This was said in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the EPZA Investment Promotion Officer, Grace Lemunge at the ongoing Syrian International Exhibitions taking place in Dar es Salaam. “Representatives of the companies participating in the exhibitions who apart from showcasing their products and technology, are also looking for new investment opportunities in Tanzania,” she said. Ms Lemunge said representatives from a number of companies continued to flock into the EPZA pavilion to seek detailed information on various investment opportunities especially in the manufacturing sector. “We are using the ongoing Syrian International Exhibitions to provide information to the participants of the fair on the investment opportunities that can be accessed through EPZA,” she added. She said also that the exhibition has become an important platform for the foreign participants to become ambassadors of carrying the message on the immense investment opportunities to their countries which are available in Tanzania. On his part, the EPZA Investment Promotion Officer Mr Panduka Yonazi said the exhibitions also saw local participants including businesspeople who visited the EPZA pavilion to seek information on investment opportunities. “The ongoing Syrian International Exhibition is an important opportunity to provide investment information to local investors in the manufacturing sector and that they should grab the opportunities through EPZA windows,” he said. He added, “We told local investors on the enabling environment that the government is offering for them to invest and grow their businesses.” Mr Yonazi said the aim of participating in the exhibition was to meet representatives from various industries showcasing various products ranging from clothes, perfumes, spices. “Investors in the processing of pulses are guaranteed opportunities provided through the authority’s facilities such as Special Economic Zones (SEZ) where 80 per cent of the processed products are for export market,” he said. He further added that investing under SEZ allows owners to exploit huge domestic and foreign markets, better tax incentives and affordable labour costs.