SIMBA coach Patrick Aussems is optimistic his side can make it into the knockout stage of the CAF Champions League by knocking out AS Vita of Congo DR in their final group stage match at the National Stadium this weekend. The club Belgium tactician Aussems unveiled this yesterday in Dar es Salaam after the team arrived in the country from Algeria where they lost 2 -0 to hosts JS Saoura in Bechar. Aussems said he was hopeful his charges will do their best if well supported by home crowd, adding the home support can enable the team to beat any side, but he as well predicted a very difficult battle against experienced Congolese side. “ A Win is vital for us because everybody knows if we win on Saturday will be in the quarter finals and this is a very big motivation for us especially players as they can write history for themselves and the club too,” disclosed Aussems after the team landed from Algeria. He further added that his players now know they have their destiny on their hands so they have to be ready for the Saturday’s game. Simba had a poor record in away venues at the group stage after losing 5-0 to AS Vita in the first leg match staged in Kinshasa before losing by the same margin to Al Ahly in Cairo and recently lost 2 -0 to Saoura in Algeria. However, the team has the best record at home venue, a situation that boosts their hope of making it to the knockout stage. They won 3-0 against J S Saoura in their opener at the National Stadium before stunning the Egyptian giants Al Ahly and the tournament’s eight times winner with 1-0 win in Dar es Salaam. Losing against J S Saoura saw Simba who were earlier placed second in the group, dropping to the bottom of the table while their JS Soura who were third-placed, climbed up to the top after collecting eight points, hence leapfrogging Ahly. Ahly lost 1-0 to Vita in their recent game held in Kinshasa. The loss pushed Egyptian giants to the second position with seven points. AS Vita who had earlier collected four points have now reaped seven points, only goal difference makes them slightly inferior to Al Ahly. The last Saturday Group D results have made the battle for knockout stage be wide open as any of the four teams can make it to the next stage. While Simba will be hosting AS Vita on Saturday March 16, Al Ahly will welcome JS Saoura and winners of the two games will see themselves into the knockout stage. Simba who are currently settled at the bottom of the group with six points, two points behind group leaders J S Saoura and one behind second and third-placed Al Ahly and Vita respectively, will pitch a camp at the Boko Veteran ground in the outskirt of Dar es Salaam. On Monday, the club launched ‘Do or Die’ campaign ahead of their crucial tie with AS Vita. And according to the club’s Communications Officer Haji Manara, the campaign launched on Monday will give the club momentum as they aim to continue their unbeaten home run. “Our weapon throughout the competition has always been our supporters who usually come in big numbers. On Saturday, I want them (fans) to break their own previous record by filling to capacity the 60,000 venue,” So as to ensure big turnout on the day, entry charges for the match have been simplified as follows. VIP A will be accessed by 20,000/-, VIP B will go for 10,000/- while those who will occupy Blue and Orange seats will pay 3,000/-. Additionally, Platinum tickets will be sold at 100,000/- whereby holders of these tickets will be treated in a special manner.