cils in the East African region yesterday passed a constitution for the establishment of the Eastern Africa Association for Educational Assessment (EAAEA), which aims at strengthening the fight against examination theft, cheating and sharing skills, techniques and system for examination assessments. The establishment of the association is also expected to simplify the availability of academic information for students who study within the east African region. The association brings together heads of examination councils from Uganda, Kenya, South Sudan and Tanzania. The Tanzanian National Examinations Council (NECTA) Executive Secretary, Dr Charles Msonde, has been elected the first President of the association.yesterday, Dr Msonde said other elected leaders are Vice President, Mr Simon Deng who is the Secretary General of the National Examination Council of South Sudan, Secretary General, Dr Dan Odongo, who is the Executive Director of Uganda National Examination board, and Treasurer, Dr Mercy Karogo, who is the Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Kenya National Examinations Council. He said all leaders will serve for a three-year term. “We have decided to form the association so that we can address some challenges together. Apart from examination cheating and theft, we are also looking forward to sharing experiences and skills in combating irregularities in supervising examinations,” he said. Dr Msonde explained that, the association will make it easy for citizens of member countries who study within the region to access education information easily. “This will ease the recognition of educational qualifications within the member countries.” He pointed out that the idea of establishing the association was born in March, 2018 when East Africa’s heads of examination councils met in Dar es Salaam where they drafted a roadmap for establishing the association. A technical team of members from each country was formed and tasked to formulate a constitution that would guide the operations, he explained. Mr Odongo pointed out that the association will also serve as a platform for professionals to conduct research, share experiences, knowledge and skills. “This will be a platform for providing technical advice to East African Community leaders on matters pertaining to assessment of examinations in the region,” he said, adding: “We, as heads of examining and assessment councils, believe that EAAEA will bring the regional’s examining and assessment councils closer and propel them to greater assessment and examining heights.” Mr Odongo also noted that apart from having a continent’s association which embodies all African examining and assessment associations dubbed the Association for Educational Assessment in Africa (AEAA) that commenced in 1982, regional assessing and examining associations have been established in different African regions.