ZANZIBAR First Lady, Mwanamwema Shein yesterday graced the International Women’s Day celebration in the Isles by calling on mothers to play a pivotal role in their children’s upbringing. The colourful event held at the Gombani Stadium in Pemba saw good participation of women from all walks of life, and the First Lady used the occasion to remind them to be fully involved in the lives of their children. She said women spend more time with children compared to their husbands, therefore they were supposed to take the best care of their children and guide them along the right path. “Both fathers and mothers are parents, but the truth remains that, we mothers spend more time with children compared to their fathers,” said First Lady. “We parents, especially women, are responsible to closely monitor our children’s actions so that we can guide them along the right path, some ethics and parenting we received from our forefathers,” added the First Lady. She insisted that parenting is an important aspect of societal growth and development and therefore should not be taken for granted, and called on every Zanzibari to assume the role of good parenting. Ms Shein noted that while women play the leading role in parental care, it took the whole community to raise a child, and urged the whole society to lift up parenting and act as their neighbour’s keeper. The First Lady also used the occasion to recall the fight against HIV/AIDS, saying the killer disease was still a problem in the Zanzibar community. She told women to be at the centre of the fight and prevent the spread of the pandemic if the country is to eliminate the disease by 2030. Ms Shein acknowledged the revolutionary government of Zanzibar for its work in uplifting the lives of its people, especially women and girls. “We should thank the government, all regimes, for taking deliberate measures to develop Zanzibar women. As we mark the 55th anniversary of the Zanzibar revolution, we’re witnessing big achievements among Zanzibar women, thanks to the government’s good understanding of the role of women in development,” she said. The theme for International Women’s Day this year is “Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change.” The theme puts innovation by women and girls, for women and girls, at the heart of efforts to achieve gender equality, and Ms Shein said the Isles government under Dr Ali Mohamed Shein has practically been implementing it. She said the government put in place proper infrastructures and conducive environment for women’s development, adding that there are a number of special programmes aimed at empowering women, and urged her fellow women to utilise the available opportunities. She cited a number of women projects supported by the government as a true reflection of its keenness to lift the status of women in the country, and urged them to rally behind the government and support its development plans. International Women’s Day is celebrated on March 8 worldwide, commemorating the political, social and economic achievements of women. Over the decades, the objective of Women’s Day celebration has evolved and embraced culture and ethnicity to emerge as a celebration of appreciation, respect and love towards women. Women’s Day is also celebrated in schools nowadays and also forms an integral part of the curriculum to spread the awareness of women empowerment, their roles and achievements.