A total of 2.3bn/-will be spent on the construction of the Geita Shopping Center, completion of which is scheduled for August this year. Elaborating on the development of the project on Wednesday, the Geita Town Director, Eng. Modest Apolinary, said the construction of the facility’s first phase which started in August last year, Had reached 60 percent and was on course. According to him, while the first phase was earlier scheduled for completion in June this year, the contractor he named as Magason Company, had promised to complete it by April this year. “We are anticipating numerous benefits from this project upon its full completion, including supporting the town’s economic development through increasing revenues, widening the capacity of financing social services as well as changing the current shape of the township to make it more attractive,” he said. The Geita Town Council was implementing the project in collaboration with the Geita Gold Mine Ltd (GGML) that had set aside 1.2bn/-for it. At yesterday’s event, GGML handed over additional materials for construction of the next phase of the shopping centre. During the handover ceremony, the GGML Managing Director, Mr Richard Jordinson, said the company was delighted by the joint initiatives, expressing optimism that it would have immense socio-economic benefits. He said the construction of the Geita Shopping Center was part of the 9.2bn/-Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) budget the company allocated for 2018 to support different development initiatives for Geita Region. As part of the effective implementation of the Mining Act 2010 which was amended in 2017, mining companies are required to prepare and implement a credible Corporate Social Responsibility Plan jointly agreed by the relevant local authorities in consultation with the minister responsible for local government authorities and the minister responsible for finance. GGML was the first mining company in 2018 to sign a CSR Memorandum of Understanding with the local authorities in meeting the requirements of the Act. In addition to the ongoing projects, GGML’s CSR projects comprise the installation of solar powered streetlights in Geita Town, construction of a state- of- the -art tower at the Geita Town roundabout and the development of a modern market facility. “The GGML CSR Plan and its execution represent a positive model that demonstrates how the government and the private sector can work together towards the betterment of host communities,” Mr Jordinson said.