PREVENTION and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has filed three cases against several business persons who are alleged to have evaded taxes amounting to a staggering 27.78bn/- between 2016 and 2017. This year alone, the anticorruption bureau in collaboration with the Directorate of Public Prosecution has filed five cases before the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court, according to the Director General of PCCB, Commissioner of Police (CP) Diwani Athumani. “These cases are in different stages at the court. Our investigations in selected regions have also revealed that the government is losing revenues due to non-conformity of the law since some transactions are not subjected to receipts issued by electronic fiscal devices,” he stated. Presenting a report on performance of PCCB before President John Magufuli at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday, CP Athumani also explained that the bureau recovered 13.11bn/- between 2016- 2017 in tax arrears. Following operations and interrogation by officials from PCCB in collaboration with their counterparts from the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the implicated business people who had evaded the taxes admitted of the offences and reimbursed the taxes, he explained. The anti-corruption czar informed President Magufuli that a unit charged with tracing and confiscating illgotten funds and property at PCCB has since inception impounded 14.69bn/- in cash, seven houses and four vehicles. According to CP Diwani, the unit has also frozen several bank accounts with cash amounting to 14.69bn/- and seized 26 houses, 47 plots of land, 61 vehicles as well as 13 farm estates between the year 2016 and 2018. The former Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) in the Tanzania Police Force informed Dr Magufuli that the bureau relies on several sources and tips to launch its investigations against individuals implicated in corruption. CP Athumani mentioned the sources as audit reports by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), performance reports by the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) and issues raised by lawmakers in the National Assembly. He mentioned other tips as media reports, members of the public, letters addressed to the bureau, social media networks and emergency phone calls to its call centre. It is from such sources and investigations that PCCB has among other areas discovered loss of revenues due to non-issuance of EFD receipts in many regions countrywide and lapses in collection of parking fees in Dar es Salaam, he stated. CP Athumani assured the Head of State that the bureau has started taking actions against unethical employees, including sacking and arrangement at courts of law.