MINISTER for Home Affairs, Mr Kangi Lugola has issued a stern warning to dishonest police officers engaging in drug business, telling them they risk facing tough punitive measures. “If you engage in illicit drug business and corruption, you (police), risk losing public trust,” the Minister warned, adding that police are also required to explain to victims and the public about results of their investigations. Lugola issued the warning here at a public rally he organized for people to talk about their unresolved complaints and grievances in the Islands. It emerged at the meeting held at the Komba-wapya ground in the municipality that some officers engage in illicit drug business. He said: “Public trust on defence and security forces is important. Police need to understand that maintaining a good relationship with the public is crucial. Observe ethics, avoid misconduct, and provide results about investigations without delays.” Delays in investigation, corruption, false charges, police rudeness in handling cases, particularly sexual violence cases, use of drugs, suspects in police custody, are some of the issues that people raised at the meeting. The Home Affairs Minister and his Deputy, Mr Hamad Y ussuf Masauni directed commissioners of police to solve the problems raised by the people, including the unsettled claim by the ex-police officers led by Mr Adam Khamis who claim that their retirement benefits have not been well calculated and paid. “Police is a union matter, so we serve both the mainland and Zanzibar, grievances from people concerning security matters must be solved,” Lugola and deputy Masauni said during the gathering as they warned political parties against conducting political rallies without permission. He said despite the indefinite ban on political rallies, some leaders have been violating the order. “We will arrest and charge any leader regardless of his/her position. Political public rallies remain prohibited,” he said. Mr Lugola has been conducting public rallies in different areas of the country to provide an opportunity for ordinary people to talk about their grievances directly to the minister.