A KOREAN medical equipment manufacturing company, Radian Qbio, which has developed - Cell Qube - a new blood test device detecting at least 12 different viruses, plans to set up a regional plant in Tanzania. Speaking during the demonstration of the handheld device, Radian Qbio Chief Executive Officer, Kim Beom Ki said the uniqueness and efficiency of the device was user-friendly, handy and environmentally -friendly. “We are bringing to the world a new technology that will revolutionise the way we handle and administer patient cases. It is convenient and cost effective,” he said, noting that HIV/Aids and Ebola were among the virus detected by the device. He said Cell Qube was a device developed to work more in rural areas, where most of the major medical facilities like and electricity were not readily available. The company came to Dodoma to demonstrate how the new device worked to most of the medical practitioners, including officials in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, the city council and university lecturers at St Gasper Conference Centre. Most of the participants, who attended the demonstration, hailed the product, saying it was the most effective device geared towards the changing conventional means of handling patients. A senior health secretary in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Edith Bakari, said the device would be a panacea for Tanzania if the company complied with all procedures needed for someone bringing a new health technology like Cell Qube. “I think this seems to be good technological advancement, but as a tradition, the ministry, through its various organs will determine if the technology is appropriate and is fit to be applied in the country,” she said. Principal laboratory technologist, Arphaxad Elubago noted that the new device was handy and was using one of the most modern technologies in diagnosing multiple infectious diseases. “The cost of buying the device and the cartridge is probably the most challenging thing. Otherwise, the technology and the shortest time it takes to detect infectious diseases offers a promising future,” he said. For his part, Moshi Cooperative University Vice- Chancellor, Prof Faustine Bee, hailed the technology, saying such kind of a device needed to be administered “in our hospitals”. “I hope this kind of technology will soon be adopted in the country so that our hospitals can enhance and speed up the way they administer diagnoses of infectious diseases in the country,” he noted. On the cost of buying the device with its cartridge, Radian Qbio Company Vice President, Kim Tae Hwan said the company planned to manufacture the device in Tanzania, saying it would certainly go down drastically. The chief executive of the Tanzanian company, Young Jin, Dr Lee Sang Tae, said his organisation had entered into partnership with Radian Qbio to ensure they found a simple technology for local hospitals. “I am glad to note that finally the medical device is here in Tanzania and within no time after necessary approval, it can be available not only all over the country, but also across East Africa,” he said. He said through the partnership, Radian Qbio would provide the machine and its accessories and Yong Jin Company would make it available all over East Africa and where it would be needed most.