TRANSPORTATION woes in the city of Dar es Salaam are set to be reduced, thanks to the arrival of the ‘Little Ride Tanzania’ - a modern and secure online transport system that enables passengers to travel at ease. Already operating in Kenya, Uganda and Zambia, the coming in of the advanced technological system in the country has been described as essential to both passengers and drivers since it covers all common means of transportation like taxi, bajaj and bodaboda. Speaking at the launch of the application in the city over the weekend, the company’s General Manager, Ashishi Kukreti, said they want to transform the transportation system to enable both drivers and passengers enjoy the ride. “There are friendly services we have added to the application to make it unique from others who offer similar means of transport to the public,” Kukreti said. He said over 500 drivers have so far been trained on how best to use the system and that they would train more of them. On his part, Little Ride Tanzania’s Operation Manager Jefferson Aluda called upon people to embrace the technology made in Africa for Africans. “We put safety first; that is why we have included a panic button whereby drivers and passengers can press when their lives are at risk and instantly, a special security team we closely work together with will come to their rescue,” he said. Furthermore, Aluda disclosed that drivers who will join them will have access to fuel and health insurance at affordable prices. “We have observed that more than 80 per cent of drivers in Africa do not have health insurance and that is the area we want to work on so that they can do their jobs in a friendly environment,” he said. The company’s Marketing Manager, Katimpu Kisessa, said another important feature of the application is Live Fare which enables passengers to know their transport fare as they progress with the trip. “For us, we value a lot the work of drivers, and that is why we want to establish a conducive atmosphere with them,” Kisessa said. Other features accompanied with the application include Gift a Ride, Safari Share and Fly Save with each having friendly services to both passengers and drivers.