WITH Tanzanian envoys Simba leading the onslaught, three teams from East Africa are title contenders in two major tournaments run by the Confederation of African Football (CAF). Simba, the only East African team at the best eight of CAF Champions League are the best so far from the region governed by Council of East and Central African Football Associations (CECAFA), while two others; Gor Mahia of Kenya and El Hilal of Sudan sealed tickets to play at quarterfinals stage of the CAF Confederation Cup. The success of three East African teams has eclipsed the West African countries which has only one team Horoya in the CAF Champions League while there is no West African team in the Confederation Cup. Overall, the East African Zone appears second only to the dominant North African countries (Maghreb), whose teams dominate both CAF Champions League and the Confederation Cup. Out of total sixteen teams in the both CL and CC tournaments, there nine teams from North Africa. Four Arab teams among CAF Champions League quarter- final qualifiers. With Simba from East Africa, Horoya from West Africa’s Guinea, Central Africa’s TP Mazembe and South Africa’s Mamelodi Sundown, the remaining four teams in CAF Champions League at the quarter-final qualifiers come from North Africa’s Arab countries. The group stage in the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Champions League ended on Saturday with eight teams qualifying to the quarterfinals, of which four Arab teams including Espérance Sportive de Tunis, the defending champions; Egypt’s Al Ahly, runnerup of last edition; Morocco’s Wydad AC; and Algeria’s CS Constantine. From group A, Wydad AC qualified with 10 points with one-goal difference from South Africa’s Mamelodi Sundowns which came second in the group. Mamelodi Sundowns advanced to the next round of the CAF Champions League despite losing 1-0 to Wydad AC in Saturday’s Group A clash at the Stade Prince Moulay Abdallah in Rabat. As for Group B, ES Tunis qualified after topping the group with 14 points collected from four wins. ES Tunis won 2 -1 over Zimbabwe’s FC Platinum, in the final round. Horoya AC has also managed to qualify from Group B with 10 points collected from three wins and a draw. The Group C witnessed vicious competition until its last round between TP Mazembe, CS Constantine. Mazembe was able to qualify as first of the group with 11 points. Constantine came second and Club African came third with 10 points. In Group D, Al Ahly qualified as leader of the group after gaining 10 points. The Egyptian giants beat JS Saoura 3-0 in the final round of the group stage. While Simba SC secured a place in the quarter-finals after a last-minute 2 -1 win over AS V ita Club in the same round, increasing its points to nine. The Group C witnessed vicious competition until its last round between TP Mazembe, CS Constantine, Club Africain, and Ismaily SC. Mazembe was able to qualify as first of the group with 11 points. Constantine came second and Club Africain came third with 10 points. In Group D, Al Ahly qualified as leader of its group after gaining 10 points. On Saturday, the Cairo giant beat JS Saoura 3 -0 in the final round of the group stage. While Simba SC secured a place in the quarterfinals after a last-minute 2-1 win over AS V ita Club in the same round, increasing its points to nine. In the Confederation Cup there are five tams from Maghreb led by Morocco with two teams--RS Berkane and Hassania Agadir, Tunisia has also entered two teams; CS Sfaxien and É toile du Sahel, Egypt has brought in Zamalek, while CECAFA Zone has Al-Hilal of Sudan and Gor Mahia. The only central African team is Nkana of Zambia.