DEPUTY Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) Mussa Sima has warned authorities responsible for waste dumping to avoid mixing hard plastic bottles with soft waste. Speaking during a tour of dumpsites in Njombe and Makambako district councils in Njombe Region, Mr Sima said mixing plastic bottles and soft waste was detrimental to the environment. The minister further pointed out that such activities hampered government efforts to curb pollution and degradation, adding that the directive must be implemented forthwith. “These plastic bottles are collected and sold for recycling. Therefore, it is unwise to bring them to dump sites when there is the market out there…,” he said. He pointed out that sorting out should be done to protect people from health risks. He added that his tour of Njombe Region aimed at inspecting the extent at which district councils were active in destroying solid waste to protect the environment. “I want to see the extent at which they are destroying solid waste, how far the dumpsites are from residential areas and waste water management. This aims at reducing the government’s burden to treat people who may fall sick due to poor management of waste.” For his part, National Environment Management Council (NEMC) Coordinator in the Southern Highlands Godlove Mwamsoje said district councils had the mandate to manage waste produced by people in their localities, calling on land, health and environmental experts in those districts to work together to ensure all set standards were observed. He added that by observing all standards of waste management the environment would be preserved and people’s wellbeing would be assured. In another development, Mr Mwamsoje called on Tanzanians to protect the environment especially water sources to benefit present and future generations. He pointed out that NEMC had been in the frontline to ensure water sources were well-preserved and people were involved. “In this zone the main challenge we have is to protect water sources because being in the highlands we have many water sources that form rivers which are crucial for the livelihood of people on the lowlands,” he said.