THE government plans to scale up cancer care and treatment units countrywide by strengthening service provision, which includes prevention and early detection of the disease. Speaking during the launch of a 9.5bn/- linear accelerator (LINAC) and CT simulator at Ocean Road Cancer Institute, making Tanzania the first country to possess such machines in Africa, Vice- President (VP) Samia Suluhu Hassan said most cancer cases were being diagnosed in their critical stages. She noted that to overcome cancer in the country Tanzanians had to develop a culture of checking their health status regularly. She cited a report released by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in September last year, which showed that 42,060 new cancer cases and about 28,610 deaths were being reported every year. "Among the biggest challenges is that at least 75 per cent of the patients go to the health facility, while the disease is in its critical stage, which hinders treatment," said the VP. She noted that 80 per cent of cancer patients in the country demanded radiotherapy treatment, which had forced the government to purchase modern equipment to meet the demand. She revealed that the machine would save 7.5bn/-, which was being spent by the government on the treatment of 300 patients referred to India for treatment. Up to 50m/- was spent on a person to acquire specialised treatment. “Tanzania joins the US and other European countriesto provide such services,” she said, directing ORCI to come up with a plan to promote the services in neighbouring countries and bring patients to the health facility. According to her, such a move will help the health facility reduce dependency on government released subsidies. Besides that, the VP also directed them to prepare guidelines for improvising cancer treatment at all facilities to overcome any misconduct. As for the ministry, they should supervise all facilities offering treatment by coming up with guidelines for registration to ensure all facilities operate with valid licences and provide quality healthcare. "With the same patriotism used to acquire the modern equipment, let’s maintain it to ensure it is well maintained," noted the VP. Ms Suluhu further called upon the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) to incorporate the treatment in services accessed by people. Minister for Health, Community Development Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said in 2015 ORCI and Bugando Medical Centre in Mwanza attended to 8,200 patients equivalent to 19.6 per cent of all patients in the county. She pointed out that three years after several improvements the health facilities managed to attend to 13,400 patients equivalent to 31.9 per cent. She hailed the government for increasing a budget for the availability of cancer drugs at ORCI and MNH from 790m/- in 2015/16 to 7bn/- in 2016/17. "Availability of the drugs for 2015/16 was only 4 per cent at ORCI, which raised concerns, but in February 2019 it increased to 92 per cent for exempted drugs, while for availability of other drugs was 95 per cent by October last year," she said