HIGHER Education Students’ Loans Board (HESLB) collected over 120bn/- from its beneficiaries over the past eight months countrywide after a massive campaign to employers and employees to raise awareness on importance of repayment of the loans. Loans Recovery Director of HESLB, Mr Ignatus Oscar, told the ‘Daily News’ here on Monday that HESLB targets to collect over 180bn/- by June this year from its beneficiaries nationwide. “So far, we have collected over 120bn/- from HESLB beneficiaries after a positive response from employers and employees in compliance with the law on loans repayment,” said the HESLB’s Loans Recovery Director. Mr Oscar said HESLB had registered great achievements in loans recovery for the past three years, pointing out that the Board had collected over 116bn/- in the 2016/2017 financial year from 28bn/- in 2015/2016 fiscal year. He expressed gratitude to the National Identification Authority (NIDA), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and National Social Security Fund (NSSF) for facilitating in identification of HESLB beneficiaries in the informal sector. Mr Oscar said lack of a harmonised national identification database with the one of HESLB remained as a major challenge in loans recovery, saying in other countries, national identification database matches with loans bureau database, hence facilitates in identification of its beneficiaries. He said some HESLB beneficiaries nursed the notion that loans disbursed to them while pursuing tertiary education were subsidies and not loans, saying such beneficiaries considered repaying loans to financial institutions more important than repaying their loans to HESLB. “The Board offers loans to students to enable them pursue their tertiary education. But they have a responsibility to repay the loans after completing their studies,” he observed. Mr Oscar said that there was no way HESLB beneficiaries could skip repaying the loans and that the beneficiaries who had not started to repay the loans should start doing so. “For those who have not started to repay the loans, I wish to remind them that there were a good number of advantages of not delaying in repaying the loans,” he said. Mr Oscar also clarified on the issue of costs charged by HESLB on beneficiaries while repaying the loans, noting that the costs charged on beneficiaries did not represent interest. Assistant Loans Recovery Director of HESLB Fidelis Joseph, said HESLB had started using the Tanzania Government’s e-Payment Gateway (GePG) in repayment of loans, saying beneficiaries could use their mobile phones to make payments through the system.