FOR the first time candidates, who sat for the 2018 Form Four national exams, will be offered yet another opportunity to choose combinations of their choice before the government selects those eligible for Form Five. Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Selemani Jafo said yesterday that the government’s decision aimed at ensuring students studied what they wanted and became what they wanted to be. He said applications were equally open to those, who had opted for joining various vocational training colleges, saying they were also allowed to reapply for a combination of their choice with this new arrangement. Mr Jafo said the government’s decision came after realising that after the Form Four examination results were announced candidates ought to consult their parents on what to study depending on what they aspired to be in the future. “That is why we have decided to provide a second chance to them so that they may study subjects thatwill help them realise their future dreams,’’ he added. Initially, the candidates were filling in selection forms (Selforms) before sitting for their final examinations and after tthe results were announced by the National Examination Council of Tanzania (Necta) the government was selecting them to pursue Form Five studies depending on the combinations they filled in their forms. According to Mr Jafo, parents have been complaining about the selection as the candidates find themselves in other combinations that they did not fill in their selection forms before their examinations. The minister told a press conference that the candidates, who had passed their examinations would have two weeks to apply for the combinations and their schools of choice would be considered depending on cutoff points. According to him, the candidates are supposed to apply online via the ministry’s website—www.selform. tamisemi.go.tz between April 1 and 15. “We don’t expect to have complaints from parents or candidates after Form Five selection is made and the ministry will consider the candidates, who do not use this second chance to re-apply for the new combination after being satisfied with their previous selections,’’ he said. He noted that his ministry had already completed its database for the combinations selected by the candidates before the Form Four examinations and it would be updated immediately within two weeks after receiving new applications from the candidates. Private education stakeholders have commended the government’s decision, saying it is an answer to a long time cry. Tanzania Association of Owners and Managers of Non-Government Schools (Tamongsco) Secretary General Benjamin Nkonya hailed the initiative, saying the former system was more of a lottery to the candidates than a real combination selection. Mr Nkonya, who also runs Educational Initiatives Tanzania (EIT) said: “The former system made the candidates frustrated once their selected combinations did not match with the examination results. Once the results were out, it was hard to change to other combinations that balanced.” “As we are in industrial era we would like candidates with talents and passion to select subjects they want, especially those of natural sciences instead of running away because of fear that the selected combinations they want will not match their results,” he noted. He further appealed to the government to lay more emphasis on science subjects and push the candidates to choose such subjects because the number of those taking science subjects was still small. “A labour pool in science is still minimal compared to arts, hence if special incentives are put to attract more candidates to science subjects, including putting in place proper infrastructure like access to books, laboratory equipment and a conducive studying environment, it will make a big difference,” he explained.