SOME local leaders including councillors and village leaders in Tarime district are reportedly protecting men who are cutting short education dreams of school girls by making them pregnant. Organisations fighting Gender Based Violence (GBV) and Violence against Children (VAC) acts in the district expressed the concern on Saturday when they came together to mark the 2019 International Women’s Day in the area. The organisations are Association of Termination of Female Genital Mutilation (ATFGM) Masanga, Children’s Dignity Forum (CDF), Mogabiri and Plan International “We are seeing many leaders at the village and ward levels collaborating with traditional elders to protect perpetrators of GBV acts, especially those who impregnate school girls. We ask the government in Tarime District to take action against these leaders because they are known,” the organisations said in a joint statement during the event. According to them, the situation of GBV acts is still worrying in many parts of the district, citing latest FGM season carried out in the district last year. Therefore, they appealed for legal measures to be taken against FGM perpetrators to stop the harmful traditional culture which is also cited to be the source of child marriage in the area. FGM is illegal according to the laws of the country. Another thing recommended by the organisations is allocation of budget by Tarime District Council that will help women and children committees to carry out their duties of safeguarding women and children from GBV and VAC acts. The International Women Day event was hosted by ATFGM Masanga, a local organisation that that has saved 2900 girls from undergoing FGM in the recent years. ATFGM Masanga run camps for girls escaping from FGM during the pick season every year, with support from partners supporting the initiative. “Bringing these commemorations of International Women Day at Masanga is very commendable because this will add weight on FGM campaigns in this area, which has many girls who are at risk of undergoing the harmful culture. This shows the government support in this war,” ATFGM Projects Manager, Mr Valeria Mgani told the Sunday News shortly after the event. Presiding over the event on behalf of Tarime District Commissioner (DC) Francis Kabeho, the District Administrative Secretary (DAS), Mr John Marwa directed primary and school children to be taught on the effects of FGM.