...Magufuli wonders why police haven’t taken a suspicious taxi driver to court yet  PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday reprimanded the way the Police Force handled the kidnapping and resurfacing of Tanzanian billionaire Mohamed Dewji, saying it had left unanswered questions that tarnished the image of the law enforcing organ. Forbes Magazine ranks Dewji as the only billionaire in East Africa to feature in the top 20 list of Africa’s richest persons. The youngest billionaire heads Mohammed Enterprise Ltd (METL), a conglomerate founded by his father in the 1970s, was ranked 14thon the list of most wealth persons in Africa issued by Forbes Magazine last Thursday. The President recalled that when the businessman was kidnaped in October last year, the police came out with several stories, telling the public that the kidnappers were white people. But the matter raised more questions among Tanzanians when it ended. One of the mysterious circumstances was when Mr Dewji (alias Mo Dewji) was released. He was found at Gymkhana grounds in the city at midnight. “People are puzzled over how he reached there…and the guns were also left at the place. You may ask why a kidnapper has decided to leave without guns…but later on we saw a kidnapped person drinking tea together with Mambosasa (Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner), still no explanations,” Dr Magufuli explained. The President was speaking after swearing in Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi and Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga as well as commissioning of five police officers. The event took place at the State House in Dar es Salaam during which the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, Speaker Job Ndugai and Chief Justice Prof Ibrahim Juma attended. Speaking on incidents that followed Mo Dewji’s release, he said after a few days, it emerged that the police discovered a house in which Mr Dewji was hidden after being kidnapped, and arrested a taxi driver who used to carry the kidnappers. “Tanzanians stayed and waited to see the police send the driver to court as the starting point, but it has kept quiet for months now…so this raises many questions than answers,” the President stated. Dr Magufuli said people would expect that the following day the police would take the driver to court after arresting him, at least to answer some charges. Even the owner of the house in which the kidnappers were reportedly accommodated could have questions to answer. “Even if Tanzanians would remain silent on such issues, their hearts wouldn’t be comfortable…these shortfalls tarnish the good image of the police,” he remarked. He called on the new police commissioners to ensure that they work hard to positively transform fellow police officers who tarnish the image of the force. “There are normal issues; you should understand that Tanzanians are no longer ignorant, they understand and they can analyse issues,” he said. However, he generally commended the police force for a job well done despite some hitches.