VICE-PRESIDENT (VP) Samia Suluhu Hassan has urged East African (EAC) partner states to aggressively invest in the health sector and relevant digital technologies for the attainment of sustainable development goals (SDGs) and universal health coverage. Ms Hassan said rapid technological and digital transformation to support the implementation of health sector interventions and programmes would lead the countries to the attainment of SDG No 3: “Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages”. Speaking at the opening of the 7th East African Health and Scientific Conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the V P said that investing in the health sector and relevant digital technologies was a key for development that EAC countries needed to pursue aggressively. “This is surely a step in the bright direction towards the attainment of SDG No 3 and universal health coverage,” Ms Hassan noted. She said science and technology were important and vital tools in addressing fundamental gaps in the health sector, thus a need to invest in digital health technology could not be understated if the EAC countries were to fully implement the SDGs and address all aspects of poverty. “We can no longer ignore the direct correlation of poverty and social vulnerability in aggravating poor health. To address these vulnerabilities we need to invest in digital health technology as a way of strengthening regional health services.” Ms Hassam said digital health had been proved as one of the enablers of SDGs in developed countries and a lot of pilot projects all over the world were conforming the same to be the case in low and middleincome economy settings. Digital solutions are used to strengthen all core building blocks of health systems, which are service delivery, health workforce, health information systems, access to essential medicine, financing and leadership/ governance. She noted that Tanzania had already embarked on digitalisation of its healthcare systems through the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children and several agencies under it such as the Medical Stores Department (MSD) whereby the digitised technology helped in tracking the consignment from purchase to delivery points. Ms Hassan added the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) was currently managing client membership, claim and contributions through digital systems and Tanzania Food and Drug Authority TFDA was conducting the online reporting of import and exports under and reporting of diverse effects of the use of medicine and cosmetics. “We have also installed hospital management systems in all government hospitals. This system gives real time data and you can track the movement of patients and the medicine stock,” she noted. She pointed out that Tanzania had made significant strides in its healthcare sector since the country embarked on digitising its systems among them improved quality of healthcare services such as improved availability of patients’ medical records, improved efficiency and time serving and availability of real time data. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu said digital health had helped to improve delivery of healthcare and saving many lives. She said there were no longer reported loss of patients’ records thus enable them to receive services on time. The minister said through digital technology health specialists had managed to serve the lives of expectant mothers in rural areas and reduce maternal mortality. Ms Mwalimu noted that the country was still facing some challenges in the implementation of digital health since some of the health personnel were using papers despite being provided with digital tools for discharging their duties. “As ministry we will continue insisting the use of ICT to improve health services,” she said. The three-day conference with the theme “Technology for health systems transformation and attainment of the UN – Sustainable Development Goals” brought together scientists from EAC and Africa.