THE United Nations (UN) has pledged to cooperate with Tanzania to ensure that the country has a good environment for justice delivery. The pledge was given in Dar es Salaam by the UN Resident Representative, Mr Alvaro Rodriguez to the new Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Ambassador Dr Augustine Mahiga on Saturday, at an event for handing over modern toilet facilities worth 135m/- for Azimio, Lupalama and Umoja Schools in Iringa. Mr Rodriguez said he was aware that the ministry and many other institutions were facing several challenges in executing their duties and that the UN was ready to chip in with support. He said some institutions and offices needed capacity building so as to work more effectively. He mentioned other institutions that faced challenges as the Attorney General’s Chambers, Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) office, Solicitor General’s Office and Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency. The UN representative mentioned others as the Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance, Judicial Service Commission, the Law School of Tanzania as well as the Institute of Judicial Administration Lushoto (IJA). He called on the former Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister to sustain continued cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) so as to tackle different challenges in the legal sector. In its report, the Iringa District Council Executive Director’s Office explained that many schools in the district faced challenges in infrastructure, especially toilets, leading to many students, especially girls, to contract contagious diseases, as a consequence of which their studies were affected. The toilets will reduce congestion among the students during the call of nature and the service will let them have ample time for their studies. Iringa District Commissioner Richard Kasesela hailed Dr Mahiga and the UNDP for the support and asked them to extend it to other areas, such as construction of hostels, renovation of classrooms and other school infrastructure. Dr Mahiga commended Iringa District Council leaders as well as those of the three schools for well-supervised projects and called upon them to safeguard the facilities. He pledged to carry on supporting development projects so long as the situation allowed. He is currently constructing a state-of-the-art hostel at Kidamali Secondary School that would help girls who have been walking for long distances to and from school.