WORLD Bank (WB) Country Director Bella Bird has advised the government to sustain the country's economic growth for achieving a middle-income economy by 2025 and keep such status beyond that period. Ms Bird noted that Tanzania had enjoyed relatively high and stable growth in the past 15 years. Based on official statistics, Tanzania’s economy has grown more than 6 per cent annually during the period. "This ranks Tanzania among the best performing countries in sub-Saharan Africa," she commented recently during the launch of a workshop on the status of Tanzania's journey towards the middleincome economy status. The Path to a Middle Income Country: Benchmarking Tanzania was the theme of the workshop, which was held in Dar es Salaam. It involved economic experts to reflect on the status and progress realised by Tanzania towards the middle-income economy status stipulated in the country's Development Vision 2025. The focus was to share experience from other countries that recently achieved the middle-income status, with the WB team, led by Yutaka Yoshino, presented lessons from countries like Bangladesh and Vietnam. Ms Bird said the two countries had realised the fast growth in per capita income in the past 10 years and how Tanzania was today compared to those countries. ESRF Executive Director, Dr Tausi Kida, said it was envisioned that Tanzania would have graduated from the least developed countries (LDCs) category to be consistent with this vision and that it was aspired that Tanzania of 2025 should be a nation imbued with five attributes of the middle-income economy by 2025 with high levels of human development. But Dr Kida challenged participants to find answers why Tanzania was finding it difficult to realise the desired levels of growth in the manufacturing sector to the target of 13.0 per cent aspired in the Development Vision 2025. She further explained that the aspect of human capital was very important for raising production. “We have to look at the aspect of human capital very critically as well as the issue of technology if we want to transform our economy and increase productivity,” she stated. At the moment, the level of growth of the manufacturing sector is only 7.1 per cent. Economic expert from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) Jehovaness Aikali said for the manufacturing sector to boost production it should increase skilled labour. Chairman of the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) Subhash Patel told participants that in the past 25 years the manufacturing sector had done wonders. Lead economist at the Swedish Embassy True Schedvin emphasised the role of free education policy, which the government had introduced in enhancing human capital for economic growth.