A SEETHING dispute is looming at Mirerani after some miners confronted each other possibly as a result of everyone being allocated the same area to mine rod light gems. With each party showing the same detailed documents issued by the Mining Office, one is designed to mine underground, while the other allowed the outer hill, the works of the latter have forced the former to cease operations for fear of safety. One of the complainants, Mr Mathew Fanuel said he owns the area and has been operating underground only to be surprised recently, when he saw some white people visiting the area, and later mobilised their equipment including bulldozers to start mining and threatened him and his people. Expounding on the matter, one of his officials, Mr Yona Kilangi, said that they were forced to stop their routine operations from February 10, this year, after fearing for their safety from the whites. “We had to stop our activities on February 10th this year, because we are underground operating and somebody else came and started working on the hill on top of us. What do you expect us to do when rocks start rolling down on us? We only had to report the matter to the authorities,” he posed. Mr Kilangi further said that after spotting the white people around, they thought the area might have been sold to the foreigners, but odd enough emerged another person, Mr Gody Mwanga, who confronted them that he had the licence to operate in the area. “Actually, we ask who is wrong between us. Is it the later who brought the bulldozers and started operations or this Mr Mwanga?” he queried. “We are now without work for quite so long and we as the government to do something to sort out this matter. We could take action, but we decided to remain cool. We have the Regional Mining Officer (RMO) and his team, but we have not seen them here. “We saw the white people coming and we were suspicious and later bulldozers, showing that this area might have been clandestinely sold behind us. If you cannot read then can’t you surely see the picture?” asked the miner. When contacted, Mr Mwanga said he started his mining activities on the hill and was legally licenced to do so, adding that he has all the necessary documents, and has not encroached into any person’s area as might have been portrayed by the complainants. He maintained that there was no any dispute in the mining area, saying that everyone is on his rightful place. However, he wondered how he was being taken to have trespassed into the quarry, despite Environmental Impact Assessment Officials giving him a green light to proceed with his activists, adding: “Even a village meeting met and endorsed my activities.” He noted that he had invested a lot of money, time and energy in the area, not only there, saying: “There are authorities and I am ready to cooperate. I have employed more than 300 people here, and I have not taken anybody’s land and do not wish to do so at all. Let them go on with their business and I go on with mine.” Contacted for a comment, Manyara Regional Mining Commissioner, Mr Daud Ntalima said it was not true that two licences were issued to the parties on the same area, saying that the problem was that the miners do not read and understand the law. He said that Mr Mwanga was allocated an area that was unoccupied. “I got a phone call from people who wanted him (Mr Mwanga) to revoke the licence, and wanted to call to his office (Mr Mwanga) or send a staff with documents, but it is three weeks now and nobody has reached him. “I also heard that some went to the human rights groups with the matter, but he (Mr Mwanga) has remained firm, following the law,” said Mr Ntalima.