THE Court of Appeal has ordered the High Court to hear afresh a criminal trial of two people, Ismal Islem and Rashid Salim, who were acquitted of conspiracy and trafficking 48.53Kg of heroin hydrochloride, narcotic drugs, valued at 2.4bn/-. Justices Kipeka Mussa, Shaban Lila and Rehema Mkuye ruled in favour of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) when determining the appeal he had lodged to challenge the findings of the High Court. “The effect of this order, therefore, is that the case against the respondents should be heard afresh by another Judge and a new set of assessors from the stage of summing up and we should expect that the assessors will be properly directed on the facts as well as the relevant law,” they ruled. The justices pointed out that having gleaned from the summing up notes to assessors, they noted the trial judge had sufficiently addressed them on salient facts of the case, but their concern related to whether or not the assessors were properly directed on vital points of law involved in the trial. “It is noteworthy that aside from stating that the respondents stood trial for two counts of conspiracy to commit an offence and trafficking in narcotic drugs, all what the trial Judge directed the assessors in relation to the vital points of law involved was on the subject of the burden of proof,” they noted. According to the justices, the trial judge did not, so to speak, direct the assessors on what entails, or what were the ingredients of the offences to which the accused persons stood charged. On account of such direction, they said, the value of assessors’ opinions correspondingly depreciated. “The non-direction on the ingredients of the offences charged is appalling and in similar circumstances, its non-compliance has had the effect of vitiating the entire trial proceeding,” the justices said. However, the justices could not nullify the entire proceedings, but due to the peculiar circumstances of the case they decided to take a different course, more particular, the alleged narcotic drugs which were the subject of the trial below having been irretrievably disposed by an order of the trial court. Having such a peculiar circumstance in mind, the justices found it apposite, in the interest of justice, to partially nullify and set aside, in revision, the proceedings of the trial court starting with the irregularly conducted summing up notes up to the judgment and all orders subsequent thereof. “That is to say, all the proceedings of the trial court prior to the June 15, 2016 are left intact. We hope that the High Court will take hasty to resume the hearing of the trial as expeditiously as is practicable,” the justices declared. It is alleged that between May 8, 2010 and December 19, 2010, at various places, within Dar es Salaam City and, at various places within the United Republic of Tanzania, Republic of Kenya and Islamic Republic of Iran, jointly and together, the accused conspired to commit an offence of trafficking in narcotic drugs. The prosecution alleges that on December 19, 2010, at Tengwe area, within Handeni District, in Tanga City, jointly and together, accused persons trafficked 48.53kg of heroin hydrochloride or diacetylmorphine hydrochloride valued at 2,426,500,000/=.