PRESIDENT John Magufuli has warned regional and local government leaders against demanding levies or any other fees from petty traders issued with special identity cards (IDs). President Magufuli said he would not tolerate any leader from regional, district, council, city and municipal councils, who would be found to had been involved in charging levies to petty traders issued with the IDs. Addressing residents at Lumumba Street in Dar es Salaam after a meeting with other party leaders at Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) sub-head office, he said the government would not hesitate to hold accountable any leader, who would demand levies from smallscale traders issued with business IDs, warning that he would not hesitate to relieve them of their duties. He noted that the petty traders shouldn’t be disturbed. In December last year, President Magufuli handed over 670,000 special IDs to all regional commissioners (RCs) to be distributed to petty traders across the country, some IDs have already been distributed. He handed over the IDs during his meeting with government officials from Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the Ministry of Finance and Planning, to mention but a few, at Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre in Dar es Salaam. President Magufuli ordered that each ID be sold at 20,000/- to petty traders, whose businesses capital was less than 4m/- and directed the collected fees be taken to TRA by RCs themselves so that more IDs could be produced. During the meeting, each RC was given 25,000 IDs by the President with strict directives that the recipients of the cards should not be touched by tax collectors. “I’m doing this to eliminate woes that these traders face in their day-to-day activities and from now on, they should live as kings,” he added. Before the exercise, President Magufuli said Tanzania’s tax base was very poor compared to other neighbouring countries, including Kenya, adding: “it’s shame” since only 2.2 million people in the country with population of 55 million people were taxpayers. He advised TRA to ensure taxes were not too high for traders to afford. He said holders of IDs would be formally recognised by TRA officials at their work stations. The petty traders who collect IDs will be required to display their IDs to enable them to conduct their businesses without any problem and will be recognised by TRA officials wherever they are.