IN a bid to mitigate the effects of climate change, an Italian agency, Oikos, has established a Climate Change Centre of knowledge in the region. Hosted at the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST), the centre of knowledge is part of a wider education campaign that aims to raise awareness about the effects of climate change, and to promote positive practices which are fit for adoption. Speaking shortly after inaugurating the centre yesterday, Arumeru District Commissioner Jerry Muro commended Oikos, through the Eco Boma Project for launching the centre, saying it will offer the government alternatives on coping with unpredictable weather patterns. “Some of the areas in Arumeru have been severely affected by climate change, I hope that the centre will help us mitigate its effects,” explained the Arumeru DC. Mr Muro assured the Italian agency that the project will become sustainable in addressing the effects of climate change in his district. Part of the Climate Change Centre of Knowledge includes three weather stations located in Oldonyowas, Oldonyosambu and Uwiro wards in Arumeru District. On her part, Eco Boma Project Manager Ms Ifura Ukio said the knowledge centre will help farmers and pastoralists in giving them useful tips on the ever changing climatic patterns. According to the Oikos official, the four year project which is funded by the European Union (EU) under the Global Climate Change Alliance (GCCA) Tanzania Programme had introduced 15 technologies and innovations to different sectors, namely agriculture, energy and forestry in coping with climate change. “Part of the project’s activities include rehabilitation of earth dams, ecological monitoring of rangelands and capacity building for local governments,” she said. The official with the Italian agency added that through the project, Oikos has developed a climate change platform uploaded on the NMAIST website that aims at increasing awareness on climate change to researchers, practitioners and the general public, enabling users to have access to climate data and resources. The Eco-Boma Climate Change project is implemented by Istituto Oikos in collaboration with several partners and affiliates namely NM-AIST, Oikos East Africa, Meru and Arusha District Councils.