THE Tanzania Rugby Development team from Arusha has succeeded in becoming overall winners of the Y outh Rugby Competition which climaxed here over the weekend. TRDP team of Arusha thrashed Isamilo of Mwanza 2 4 -0 in the encounter held at the International School of Moshi (ISM) campus along Dodoma Road, in Kisongo Section of Arusha. The competition involved men and women’s teams from Tanzania and overseas, in which the TRDP women team won the title after beating ICEF Rugby team from the United States of America 3 4 -7 . The TRDP Coach, Mike Kramer said the competition was targeting to boost rugby as new sport in the country. Rugby is only actively played in Arusha, Dar es Salaam and Mwanza. On his part the ICEF Coach, from USA Stuart Krohn said the under-18 teams which competed in the Arusha event, have proved that the young players in Tanzania were also forces to reckon with. Young rugby players from the United States jetted into the country, and played with local teams at the International School of Moshi, Arusha Campus on Saturday. The Under-18 players’ team from the United States, was part of the ICEF Rugby International Tour, which brings into the country, 23 youth players. Organised by the Tanzania Rugby Development Programme, the competition was dubbed Kittyler cup. The event was played for the whole day from morning to dusk at the ISM grounds involving 10 teams from Arusha and Mwanza Regions. Juma Kittyler the Rugby Development Programme Officer from TRDP, said the event was held to assist the local youth to develop their rugby skills by facing players from developed countries. US Rugby squads feel power of Tanzanian teams By BENJAMIN BEN SIMBA are eager to divert their CAF Champions League success to the Premier League as they host Ruvu Shooting at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The country’s sole representatives in CAF CL competition produced a late drama on Saturday at the National Stadium in the city to kick out Congolese side AS V ita 2 -1 which was enough to enable them sail into the last eight of the continental football showpiece. Again, Zambian creative midfielder Cletous Chama saved his team with a late gasp goal just like the way he did when the Reds ousted Nkana FC in the qualifying round of the tournament at the same venue. Placed third on the league table with 51 points from 20 games, Simba will be looking to collect vital three points from the Ruvu based side who sit on 16th position with 3 5 points after 30 outings. A win by the Msimbazi street giants will see them decreasing the prevailing 16-point gap between them and leaders Y oung Africans who have 67 points. Y anga were deprived an opportunity to reach 70 points following a 1-0 defeat they suffered from Lipuli FC on Saturday at Samora Stadium in Iringa. The slump was Y anga’s third of the season after going down with the similar scoreline to Stand United and Simba respectively at certain period of the campaign. Simba, which is the only team in the ongoing top flight league to have played few games (2 0 ) due to their jam-packed CAF CL fixtures is yet to lose a game at the 60 ,0 0 0 capacity National Stadium in all competition this season. In their past three league ties, the defending champions have bagged all nine points and managed to score 10 goals in the process. It all began with a 3 -1 thumping of Azam FC at the National Stadium before pounding Lipuli FC 3 -1 at Samora Stadium and went on to overpower Stand United 2-0 at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. On the other hand, Ruvu Shooting are unbeaten in their three previous league clashes as they drew 0-0 against Kagera Sugar at Mabatini Stadium, demolished Mwadui FC 6-2 at the same venue before being held to a goalless draw by Singida United at Namfua Stadium recently. However, with the exposure Simba are getting through CAF CL games, they have an upper hand to continue doing well in most of their upcoming matches and pose a big threat to the top two teams at the summit of the table.