THE Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has underscored the need of putting in place the necessary social services in the housing projects executed by Watumishi Housing Company (WHC) in Dar es Salaam to persuade more buyers. PAC Chairperson Nagy Kaboyoka said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday after touring WHC projects in Gezaulole-Kigamboni and Bunju B in Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam that putting all infrastructures will make the houses more marketable. “Putting all necessary social services like education, health, roads and markets can be an important marketing strategy to attract more buyers in a short period,” she said. The cost of the two projects of Gezaulole, Kigamboni and Bunju B in Kinondoni are pegged at 21.7bn/- and 4.1bn/-, respectively. The PAC Vice-Chairman Aesh Hillary commended WHC for executing the housing projects which will be sold at an affordable price thus giving opportunity for low income earners to own decent homes. “I commend you for implementing the housing projects targeting low income earners,” he said urging WHC to continue executing the project in other parts of the country. The WHC Chief Executive Officer Mr Fred Msemwa said the Gezaulole project is 95 per cent complete with 795 units. The first phase comprises 329 units. Bunju B project is 98 per cent complete with 64 units where 20 units have already been sold. He reiterated that the company builds low cost housing targeting low and middle income earners where research has shown that their houses were 10 per cent to 30 per cent lower compared to average market price. “WHC is an affordable house developer, because we aim to address middle income class and lower class groups so that at the end of the day, more people can access decent homes,” he said. He further revealed that in order to expand their customer base, they have also included non employed clients who are members of social security funds—contributing on a voluntary basis. According to the Bank of Tanzania’s Housing Market Study of 2014, the housing deficit was more prevalent in urban centres where the deficit is estimated at 1.9 million units. Dar alone registered a deficit of 400,000 units.