THE Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu has urged Tanzanians to collectively fight against norms and traditions that basically oppress women. She also emphasised that gender equality is important in realising sustainable development of any nation. Minister Mwalimu made the remarks during celebrations to mark the White Ribbon Alliance (WRA) that were marked at national level in Bukoba Municipal Council today. Reading the speech on behalf of Minister Mwalimu, the Bukoba District Commissioner (DC), Deodatus Kinawiro noted that gender violence was still high, resulting in increased maternal deaths. He revealed that maternal death rate in Tanzania currently stands at 556 deaths per 100,000 women while the target was to reduce the number to 292 deaths per 100,000 women by 2020. “More effort is needed to attain Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which required nations to record 70 maternal deaths per 100,000 women by 2030,” he said. Mr Kinawiro noted that unfortunately in our society, there are still systems that are embedded with norms and traditions that oppress women. The norms categorise a woman’s job as tending to their husbands, children and sick people. “Basically, her place is at home. In the eyes of male chauvinism, women are not supposed to be leaders and participate in decision making process at any level,” he noted. The Kagera Regional Maternal Health Coordinator, Ms Neema Kyamba disclosed that about 209 pregnant women died due to pregnancy complications between 2012 and 2014. According to Ms Kyamba, 68 pregnant women died during 2012, 72 during 2013, while 69 pregnant women died during 2014, implying an average of 69.3 per cent within a three year period. The deaths were attributed to excessive bleeding (PPH), Eclampsis, Sepsis, malaria and obstructed labour. During the celebrations, Ms Janarathi Chrisostom (25), from Chanika village in Karagwe District narrated how she narrowly escaped death after she was assaulted by her husband using a kitchen knife. She testified that the incident took place on December 30, 2017. “I was assaulted by my husband (Chrisostom) at Chanika village. He used a kitchen knife and stabbed me several times. I was admitted to Nyakahanga District Hospital for three months. I later filed a case at Kayanga police station, but to-date no action has been taken against the suspect who is still walking scotfree,” she recounted tearfully. The audience was told that males in Kagera Region should take a holistic approach in eliminating Gender Based Violence (GBV) and Violence Against Children (VAC) which are among cross-cutting issues which should be addressed collectively. A national survey conducted in 2010 revealed that 45 per cent of women aged between 15-49 years had reported gender-based violence GBV, while another seven per cent had reported sexual violence. Data for Kagera Region, on the other hand, revealed that 49.4 per cent of women and girls aged 15 years had reported GBV while 29.2 per cent had been sexually exploited. The World Health Organisation (WHO) revealed in a report conducted in 2005 in ten countries that prevalence of physical violence by an intimate partner was between 13-61 per cent.