PROSECUTION witness Stive John yesterday broke into tears at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court when testifying in the 800m/- fraud and money laundering trial of his former boss, ex-President of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Jamal Malinzi and others. John, who was working with TFF as Malinzi’s driver, failed to hold back his tears after entering the witness box before Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde at the Dar es Salaam Court after being called by the prosecutor with Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Leonard Swai. Having introduced himself after being called, the 12nd prosecution witness failed to talk, especially when he came into face to face with his boss, and started dropping some tears. The magistrate had to intervene and asked the witness, “Are your eyes itching, or what the problem Mr Witness is?” The witness could not respond anything. Later on, the witness gained momentum and gave his evidence suggesting that he was the one who was collecting money from the then TFF’s Accountant Hellen Ndaro and sent them to Malinzi. However, the witness told the court that he had not collected the money for Malizi twice a day. He explained that on every occasion he used to sign somewhere upon collection of the money, but after receiving the money Malinzi could not sign anywhere. Hearing of the case continues on April 9, 2019. In the trial, other accused are former TFF Secretary General Mwesigwa Selestine, then Accounts Officer Nsiande Mwanga, TFF Office Manager Miriam Zayumba and Flora Rauya, the Clerk with the Federation. The accused persons are facing a total of 30 counts of conspiracy (Malinzi and Selestine), abuse of office (Malinzi and Selestine), 11 counts of forgery (Malinzi, Selestine, Miriam and Flora), uttering false documents (Selestine) and 12 counts of obtaining money by false pretences (Malinzi). Others are four charges of money laundering (Malinzi, Selestine and Mwanga). Both Malinzi and Selestine are accused of forging such resolution of June 5, 2016 a view make changes of signatories whereby Edgar Masoud, who was TFF Director of Finance and Accounting was replaced by Mwanga. Facts of the case show that TFF holds and operates six accounts at Stanbic Bank Tanzania Limited and that Edgar Masoud, who was TFF Director of Finance and Accounting was one of the signatory of such accounts. With the view to change the signatory to such accounts, the prosecution alleges that on September 1, 2016, Selestine presented to the Bank, Centre Branch, a resolution dated June 5, 2016, purportedly made by TFF Executive Committee under which Masoud was replaced by Mwanga, as signatory. It is alleged that such resolution was not an outcome of the Committee, but was forged by Malinzi and Selestine. After Selestine had introduced Mwanga to the Bank as new signatory, she was recognised as TFF signatory and was involved in signing cheques, payment vouchers and other payment documents.