CHIEF Executive Officers (CEOs) and other leaders from about 70 countries in the world are meeting in Kigali, Rwanda from today, at a conference co-hosted by the World Bank Group and International Finance Corporation (IFC). A report made available to the ‘Daily News’ by The Africa CEO Forum had it that the forum will be bringing together over 1,500 business leaders, investors, policymakers and 145 journalists. “The Africa CEO Forum is the largest annual meeting of the African private sector and brings together over 1,500 business leaders, investors, policymakers and 145 journalists from more than 70 countries, including about 40 African countries, to put Africapitalism at the forefront of the global agenda and advance the issues critical to the future of the continent and its companies,” said the communiqué. The East African Business Council also issued a report, saying that the conference is the leading international conference dedicated to the private sector in Africa and hosts the continent’s top CEOs, international investors, experts and high-level policymakers every year. The forum is organised by Jeune Afrique Media Group and Rainbow Unlimited. The Africa CEO Forum says it has an unparalleled ability to mobilise, offer cutting- edge content and attracts global media coverage. It is committed to unlocking Africa’s economic potential by championing private sectorled growth, leading discussions around innovative public policies and sustainable business. Participants are expected, among other things, to benefit from an unrivaled networking platform with top decisionmakers; identify new business opportunities with the world’s most influential business leaders as well as learn from the world-class consultants and experts on how to navigate their companies’ greatest challenges. With a theme ‘Open Africa: from continental treaties to business realities’, from the UK’s planned EU exit to the trade war between China and the USA, a divide is coming up in the global economy. In contrast, a highly fragmented Africa has embarked on an accelerated integration process, with the historic signing in Kigali in March last year, of the agreement for the creation of the Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA). The agreement, with a long negotiation phase is now underway with the aim of eliminating customs tariffs. However, there are factors that hamper intra-African trade and explain the modest size of continental champions. The factors are logistical and financial barriers, a lack of inter-governmental coordination, low level of national economic specialisation and the fear of facing increased competition from companies based in neighbouring countries. “For its seventh edition – 25 and 26 March 2019 – the Africa CEO Forum has decided to unite its 1,500 participants around a transformation agenda. Questions to be answered include what priorities must be identified to boost the level of intra-African trade and investment, what must a united Africa do to better protect its interests and industries. How could they mobilise the private sector around cross-border infrastructure and logistical projects,” said the report. Others are what insights could be drawn from the East African Community (EAC) considered the most successful regional model – given the tense new political waters and how can the CEOs and partners create a truly Pan-African financial services industry.