THE country’s insurance fraternity has been challenged to introduce educational covers. The challenge has been thrown by Coadjutor Archbishop of the Dar es Salaam Archdiocese, Jude Ruwa’ichi, saying it will enable parents to have education plans for their children by saving and insurance. Archbishop Ruwa’ichi said over the weekend in Dar es Salaam during the launch of health and life insurance dubbed ‘ Nia Njema’. The project is a product of Acclavia Insurance Brokers in collaboration with Roman Catholic Church, among other stakeholders. Archbishop Ruwa’ichi said that education insurance will reduce dependency by parents/guardians who used to have been regularly seeking sponsors to educate their children. “The protection is not only for health but stakeholders should also go for education insurance to give parents and guardians a chance to prepare for their children’s education through the kind of school fees prepaid system,” he urged. He said paying for education sometimes becomes a challenge to parents thus shuttering student and parent dreams altogether. “Y ou cannot raise-up the shield to protect you while your enemy has already throw the arrow, because the arrow may harm you,” Archbishop Ruwa’ichi. Acclavia Insurance Brokers Executive Director Mr Ancelimi Mushi supported the motion saying many social development activities have been failed simply because people are not insured. “It is true that education insurance is very important similar to health cover. “W e are going to discuss the issue with other stakeholders and make sure that the product finds its way to the market,” Mr Mushi said. On health insurance that was introduced jointly by Roman Catholic Church and Acclavia, it works under the groups where a principal member pays only 30,000/- for his/her eight family members, (parents and six children), for 12-month health services. For life insurance, a member will have to pay 230,000/- for a four-member family (parents and four children). In case of principal member’s death, the family will benefit with 3m/-, and 1.5m/- when the spouse has died and 700,000/- when a child passed away. Mr Mushi said wananchi should join the insurance groups since a stitch in time saves nine. The insurance is accepted by 370 public and private health centres countywide. The insurance, however, has capped per year where the ceiling is 3m/- for inpatients, 4 5 0,000/- for outpatients and 6 00,000/- for giving birth, Mr Mushi further added.