WHILE opponents Uganda Cranes have seriously begun preparations for the final group L match of the AFCON 2019 qualifiers, Taifa Stars will officially pitch a camp next week, a week before the kick off. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has unveiled yesterday in Dar es Salaam, that the national senior team, Taifa Stars residential training camp will commence early next week on March 17th ahead of the vital game against Cranes to be played on March 24. Stars tactician Nigerian legend, Emmanuel Amunike last Friday named his 25-strongman squad for the March 24 game and according to the federation, the team will pitch its camp in Dar es Salaam to finetune ahead of the game that will determine if Tanzania deserves a place in the AFCON finals to be staged in Egypt later this year. The players named for the crucial game are Aishi Manula (Simba SC), Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk), Feisal Salum (Young Africans), J onas Mkude (Simba SC), Hassan Kessy (Nkana Red Devils), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura), Yahya Zayd (Ismaily), Mechata Mnata (Mbao FC), Gadiel Michael (Young Africans), Aron Kalambo (Prisons) and Himid Mao (Petrojet). Others are Suleiman Salula (Malindi FC), Mudathir Yahya (Azam FC), Vincent Philipo (Mbao FC), Shaban Chilunda (Tenerife), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli FC), Kelvin Yondani (Yanga), Andrew Vincent (Yanga), Shiza Kichuya (ENPPI), Kennedy Wilson (Singida United), Simon Msuva (Difaa El Jadid), Agrey Morris (Azam FC), Rashid Mandawa (BDF X I), J ohn Bocco (Simba SC) and Faridi Mussa from Tenerife-Spain. However while Stars will assemble six days before the match day, their opponents Uganda who have already booked a ticket to play in the finals leaving Tanzania, Lesotho and Cape Verde to battle for the remaining ticket of the group. According to reports Uganda Cranes have started non-residential training drills under the head coach Sebastien Desabre with his assistants Mathias Lule and Fred Kajoba (goalkeeping coach) early this week with a total of 2 4 players at the StarTimes Stadium, Lugogo in Kampala. The training session included thorough warm ups, ball work, functional drills and small sided game situations under minimal spaces as well as specialised sessions for the goalkeepers under their trainer Kajoba. Desabre has summoned 46 players including 15 foreign based players named in his squad for the Cranes provisional squad including Simba duo Emmanuel Okwi and Murshid Jjuuko for the Dar es Salaam match. The coach has also included 31 other local based players featuring in the StarTimes Uganda Premier League from which nine players will be selected after a Regional tour match in Kampala for a camp in Cairo, Egypt together with foreign based professionals. The Cranes 15 foreign based players summoned for the camp in Cairo are Denis Onyango (Mamelodi Sundowns, South Africa), Jamal Salim (Al Hilah Omdruman, Sudan), Robert Odongkara (Adama City FC, Ethiopia), Murushid Juuko (Simba, Tanzania), Denis Iguma (Kazma, Kuwait) and Nico Wakiro Wadada from Azam FC- Tanzania. Other are Herbert Bockhorn (Borussia Dortmund, Germany), Moses Opondo (Vendsyssel FF, Denmark), Joseph Ochaya (TP Mazembe, DR Congo), Khalid Aucho (Church Hill Brothers, India), Faruku Miya (Gorica, Croatia), Edris Lubega (SV Reid, Austria), Emmanuel Okwi (Simba, Tanzania), Karisa Milton (MC Oujda, Morocco) and Muhammad Shaban from Morocco’s Raja Casablanca. The 15 foreign based players will be joined by 9 other stars from the local camp to make a total of 2 4 for the four day residential training camp in Cairo, Egypt from March 18th to 22 nd and fly to Dar es Salaam on March 23 ahead of their game against Taifa Stars.