MWANANYAMALA Regional Referral Hospital faces a huge problem of limited space in its maternity ward, a situation which leaves expectant women at a greater risk of contracting hospital acquired infections. The Hospital’s Maternity Ward Registrar, Dr Said Msangi disclosed this when she was receiving a donation of medical supplies worth 4.4m/- from the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) female staff as a part of the commemorations of the International Women’s Day. Among the medical supplies donated include cotton, wheel chairs, nebulizers, pampers and chairs to be used by expectant mothers while they wait to deliver. According to Dr Msangi, the hospital receives around 30 expectant mothers everyday while the available space can only accommodate 20 women, forcing them to place up to three women on one bed. “When the women’s water’s break, it is very dangerous if there are two of them on the same bed, because they may end up infecting each other and their babies in the process,” said Dr Msangi. Beside the shortage of beds, the doctor identified other challenges facing the unit which include shortage of bed sheets, plastic covers and insufficient human resource to match the demand. “As you have witnessed for yourselves, the beds do not have bed sheets or plastic covers, which is not conducive for the women who come here,” he said. Dr Msangi applauded TASAF for their support, pointing out that it arrived at the right time, considering that when expectant mothers are going to labour they need to wait in the room and usually they are required to walk and rest, but there were no chairs, forcing them to seat on the beds. The Chief Medical Officer at the Hospital, Dr Daniel Nkungu also expressed gratitude to TASAF for availing them with the support, saying it will help to relieve some of the existing challenge facing the hospital. Dr Nkungu observed that the government initiative to improve delivery of health services particularly on the mother-child care has helped to reduce the death toll, with 22 in 2017 and 14 in 2018, saying that this year they anticipate arriving at a single digit. He affirmed the challenge on limited space faced by the hospital, saying that as from 1972 to date, the hospital’s infrastructure has not changed while the demand has grown. “If the lower level health facilities performed their functions accordingly, it could have relieved the burden because expectant mothers with no complications would go there. But now everyone is coming to the referral hospitals because they believe they can acquire better services,” said Dr Nkungu. TASAF Monitoring Officer responsible for Communications, Ms Ntuli Mwaipopo said they chose to support the hospital as a way of giving back to the community considering that their beneficiaries also go there for treatment. “On this special day for women, TASAF management and staff thought it was wise for us to come and support expectant mothers and those who have given birth by giving them several gifts which can facilitate smooth service delivery at the hospital,” she said.