AFRICAN countries have been reminded on the importance of playing the role of a brother’s keeper in maintaining peace and security on the continent. Speaking here yesterday, Deputy Speaker Dr Tulia Ackson underscored the importance of the countries in playing a leading role in ensuring that other countries don’t slide into anarchy. “If one state becomes politically unstable, the chaos will definitely spill over to other countries,” warned the deputy speaker shortly before opening the fifth statutory meeting on Peace and Security of the Parliaments of Member States of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Regional (FP-ICGLR). She further emphasised the importance of African countries to work together in resolving the intermittent political chaos that marred the continent. “The most importing thing is to work in unison in resolving these issues that claim lives of innocent people and cost our economies dearly,” she said. The deputy speaker further commended ICGLR for playing a leading role in resolving the 2013/14 political tiff between Burundi and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The FP-ICGLR is an interparliamentary organisation composed of 12 National Parliaments of the ICGLR member states, namely the Republic of Angola, the Republic of Burundi, the Central African Republic, the Republic of Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of Kenya, the Republic of Rwanda, the Republic of South Sudan, the Republic of the Sudan, the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Zambia. The main objective of the FP-ICGLR is to make a significant parliamentary contribution to the implementation of the Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region. In accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of the Inter-Parliamentary Agreement Establishing the Forum of Parliaments of the ICGLR Member States signed in Kigali, Republic of Rwanda and its Action Plan 2019-2020 adopted at its 9th Ordinary Session of the Plenary Assembly held from December 4 to 6 2018 in Brazzaville, Republic of Congo. Earlier on, ICGLR Secretary General Mr Onyango Kakoba said the forum was charged with the task of examining specific issues, particularly peace and security on the continent. “As a forum, we are responsible for promoting and enhancing cooperation as well as controlling the proliferation of small arms and light weapons on the continent.” The two day meeting will also focus on the political, security and humanitarian situation of the ICGLR member countries, in particular the Republic of Burundi, the Central African Republic (CAR), the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of South Sudan, the Security management at common borders with a special focus on the cross-border movement of people.