LADIES Jonesia Kabakama, Mary Njoroge from Kenya and Madagascar’s Lidwine Rakotozafinoro have been named in the list of refs pre-selected to officiate the AFCON U-17 finals in Dar es Salaam next month. It’s the first time ever for the Confederation of African Football (CAF) has included female officials among the referees in all men tournament. Kabakama has been pre-selected as a centre referee while Njoroge and Rakotozafinoro will serve as assistant referees. The three are part of the 29 members of the pre-selected list of the match officials who will attend a special course before the finals’ kickoff in April this year. The match officials pre-selected will undergo a training course in Casablanca, Morocco from 31 March to 4 April 2019, to fine-tune for the tournament, according to CAF. From these, the final list will be generated to handle the two week’s championship in Dar es Salaam. Kabakama will be accompanied by other 14 centre referees including the vast experienced officials such as Nabi Boukhalfa (Algeria), Issa Sy (Senegal), Dahane Beida (Mauritania) and Libya’s Huraywidah Abdulwahid among others. The other centre referees are Thirelo Mositwane (Botswana), Blaise Yuven Ngwa (Cameroon), Mahrous A.H. Ahmed (Egypt), Mogos Teklu Tsegay (Eritrea), Atcho Pierre (Gabon), Andofetra Rakotokojaona (Madagascar), Samir Guezzaz (Morocco), Basheer Salisu (Nigeria) and Karim Twagirumukiza (Rwanda). The assistant referees are Thomas Kusosa, Hassan Khalil, Mohamed Mkono, Aymar Ulrich Eric Ayimavo, Habib Judicarel Sanou, Brahim Adam Ahmat, Salah Abdi Mohamed, Nouha Bangoura, Youssef Wahid Elbosaty, Mary Wanjiru Njoroge, Lidwine Rakotozafinoro, Reis Dos Montengero Miro, James Emile and Ahmed Omer Hamid. Eight countries qualified to play at the finals of this biannual championship. Hosts Serengeti Boys will face African giants Nigeria, Uganda Cubs and Southern Africa’s Angola in group A. Group B is arguably dubbed the group of death with Guinea, Cameroon, Morocco and Senegal. The tournament will kick off on 14th April and will climax on 28t h April 2019. The four semi-finalists will all qualify to play at the 2019 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Peru, South America (5th to 27t h October). Already hosts Peru, Australia, J apan, South Korea, Tajikistan, New Zealand and Solomon Islands are assured of participation at the U-17 World Cup this year.