THE Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, has counseled girls to summon courage for pursuing science and technology courses as they have many prospects for excelling. She gave the advice here yesterday while closing a four-day training session and competition on International Girls in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) organised by the Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF). “Most girls lack guts to take up opportunities available in ICT and science avenues while it is where most of the opportunities lie; you must change and grab those chances,” said Prof Ndalichako. The minister was impressed by the talents the girls showcased, especially through innovations, by coming up with a number of applications and programmes. “Show your skills and talents by coming up with applications and programmes which can be used to improve a number of social services and contribute to economic development,” said Prof Ndalichako. She said the girls could sell their applications, stressing that they must focus on areas related to building a strong industrial economy to which the nation is geared. The minister said no industrial drive economy could be attained without the facilitation of a strong ICT base. She urged youngsters and students to use ICT in issues that are of paramount importance to their wellbeing as well as academic pursuits, contrary to the prevailing situation, whereby some are wasting precious time on less important unproductive ones. Earlier, the UCSAF Chief Executive Officer, Eng Peter Ulanga, said they conduct the training annually, as part of their strategies for empowering girls to take up ICT courses. He said this year, the training embraced 241 Form Three girls from public schools who emerged the top eight in their specific regions with a first division in their Form Two national examinations. Eng Ulanga said the girls were in three clusters, namely Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), University of Dodoma and Mbeya University of Science and Technology. The figure was trimmed to 31 who took part in the competition, those being picked for the finals in Ethiopia next month being Hadija Safi, Debora V alerian, Fatma Duzu, Monica Cleophace, Haitham Idrissa and V anessa Kusungu. The V odacom Director of Corporate Affairs, Ms RIsalynn Mworia, reiterated their commitment to support girls in pursuing science subjects, stressing that they must work hard to attain their goals. “You can make it; you have the capabilities of prospering in ICT and given the talents you showed, retain your focus; you can make great scientists who will bring about changes in national development,” said Ms Mworia.