ABOUT 1,000 potential beneficiaries of Mwasonga Project in Kigamboni District, yesterday received plots’ contracts, with the government calling on Dar es Salaam residents to grab the opportunity as it is in the process of installing social services in the area. The contracts were for those who have already paid 20 percent of the total plot cost, as per requirements of the project implementer - KC Land Development and Consultant Company Limited. Deputy Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustian Ndugulile, who doubles as Kigamboni Constituency Member of Parliament, said during the launch of the project that all necessary social services will be provided to the residents soon. “This area is among the beneficiaries of Rural Energy Agency- Phase Three. The main road will be built at tarmac level while a big ongoing water wells project will benefit not only Mwasonga residents but all people in the southern part of Dar es Salaam... I urge Tanzanians to grab this opportunity, which eases the availability of standard residences, especially to people with low incomes,” he said. As per the government plans, according to Dr Ndugulile, by 2020, each plot in Kigamboni will be surveyed, in efforts to improve people’s lives, and boost the nation’s economy through various ways, including land levies collection while land owners will be able to acquire loans, their title deeds serving as collaterals. He affirmed that Kigamboni was among areas which are set to be one of the tourist attractions and commercial hubs in the city, given the fact that 1000 acres of land with 421 plots had already been set aside for industrialisation activities. KC Executive Director Khalid Mwinyi said that his company had set aside the plots for social services, mostly schools, hospitals, worship houses, markets and children’s playing grounds within the project area (Mwasonga area in Kisarawe II Ward). The plots will soon be handed over to the relevant municipality (Kigamboni), said the director while urging wananchi to acquire plots, saying 300 acres of land were still available for those who want to reside or do businesses in Mwasonga. The company will offer building materials for those in need, under specific agreements after one has accomplished the plot purchasing costs, he said, adding : “The plots range from 2m/- to 6m/- with zero interest... One has a period of 20 months within which to clear the purchasing costs, which involve the availability of title deeds.” He pledged that the company will collaborate with the government to make sure that all social services are available in the area, reiterating that a six acre land piece, worth about 200m/-, for school construction will be the first to be handled over to the municipality. “As of now, the project has already created 200 jobs for Tanzanians. We have already constructed the toilets and a water well which offers free services to people in and around the project area,” he said.