THE Swiss Embassy to Tanzania has granted USD 7.6 million (about 18bn/-) to Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to run programmes that would raise accountability, and reduce poverty among Tanzanians as they work towards raising the country’s various developments. Signing a four-year contracts yesterday the embassy, the CSOs, were noted to have wide networks with several partners countrywide and work towards improving accountability in the country. The three CSOs were cited as the Foundation for Civil Society (FCS), Policy Forum and Twaweza. During the contract signing ceremony in Dar es Salaam, Ambassador of Switzerland to Tanzania, Ms Florence Tinguely Mattli, said the fund would be for implementing Social Accountability Programme (SAP) Phase III, that was launched by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). "The Embassy of Switzerland is proud to be partnering with these CSOs, which are key policy actors working for the betterment of the lives of ordinary Tanzanians," she pointed out. She said that the embassy firmly believes that a vibrant civil society was a key to Tanzania's ambitious development agenda of becoming a middle income country by 2025. The SAP complements Switzerland's support to key accountability actors with the Government, including a long standing partnership with the Prevention and Combating Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in enhancing its investigative capacity. The Envoy noted that her country has also supported various bilateral and regional projects in the country way back in 1960s, and will continue to provide around USD 22 million in assistance annually, which will cover health, employment and income as well as the governance sector. Thanking the envoy for the assistance, FCS Executive Director, Mr Francis Kiwanga, said that his organisation has a network of 150 CSOs, which will be the recipients of funds to implement their programmes and focus on instilling accountability in the public and bring to them individual developments. "The programmes will make these organisations to cooperate with the government and empower the communities to monitor natural resources in their areas...true development should come from the people themselves," Mr Kiwanga stated. However, Policy Forum Board Chairman, Mr Mr Japhet Makongo, assured the Embassy that they will effectively use the funds to support the government's efforts to bring services to the citizens and increase public accountability. On his side, Twaweza Executive Director, Mr Aidan Eyakuze, emphasized that the citizens have a duty to participate in bringing development amongst them by questioning issues related to their development