THE International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has revealed plans to support Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar in having more cancer treatment machines so that many patients can be reached. Speaking during his visit to Zanzibar Ministry of Health, where his team and authorities discussed how to strengthen relations, Director of IAEA Technical Cooperation Department's Division for Africa, Prof Shaukat Abdulrazak, said while Tanzania and Zanzibar’s population had been increasing with cancer cases increasing, there were only five machines, including Ocean Road Cancer Institute in Dar es Salaam and Bugando in Mwanza. "Tanzania needs at least 55 cancer treatment machines. We plan to help purchase more," he noted. At a meeting with the Health Ministry staff led by Permanent Secretary (PS) Asha Ali Abdalla and Mnazi Mmoja Hospital Director General, Dr Jamala Adam Taib, the IAEA official said member countries would benefit from the agency. "The use of nuclear and radiation science and technology for sustainable development is important in tackling some of the challenges in 45 countries in Africa benefiting from the project," he said. He revealed that since 1976, IAEA had been working with the United Republic of Tanzania to support different projects in Agriculture, water, energy, industries, health and livestock, including the control of tsetse flies. Dr Taib from Mnazi Mmoja Hospital and Dr Abdulrahaman Said, the health facility's officer in charge of Cancer Department thanked the IAEA director for the support, asking to focus on improving Cancer Department by training the hospital staff. "We only have two skilled medical staff at the Cancer Department, while three staff members are studying abroad. Therefore, the Cancer Department at Mnazi Mmoja Referral Hospital only provides medicine because it's understaffed and also lacks cancer machine," said Dr Abdulrahaman. For her part, Ms Abdalla and the Tanzania Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC) Director General, Prof Lazaro Busagala, were optimistic about the IAEA officers’ visit to the Island, saying Zanzibaris should look forward to improved relations as far as health was concerned.