THE newly launched cassava processing factory in Lindi Region will not take cassava from farmers this year, but it will use raw materials from their farm to maintain standards. Speaking at a business and investment forum in Lindi Region on Tuesday, Lindi Regional Commissioner (RC), Godfrey Zambi said Cassava Starch of Tanzania Corporation Limited (CSTC) Factory, launched by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa last week, would come up with an out-grower programme to help cassava farmers increase crop yield and maintain quality standards. “For this year, they will not buy cassava from farmers. They plan to have an out-growers’ programme from next year and they will tell farmers, which type of cassava to plant,” he said in the question and answer session of the forum organised by Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited and Lindi Regional Commissioner’s Office to promote business and investment opportunities in the region. The RC said the factory had over 1,000-acre farm for growing and producing high quality cassava tubers to be fed to the factory. “With the farm, the factory is assured of enough supply of raw materials until the end of the year,” he said. The out-growers’ programme will entail training smallholder cassava farmers about modern agricultural practices and land preparations to boost cassava yield and quality that will be supplied to the factory. According to CSTC Managing Director, Christophe Gallean, the construction of the factory, which started in 2012, will be processing quality cassava flour to serve East and Southern Africa, Middle East, Europe and the United States markets. Cassava is a staple food crop in most of the semi-arid and the frequently drought stricken areas. However, the crop rapidly changing and becoming a cash crop due to increased demand for food and industrial needs. Many farmers in the Western Zone grow cassava as a cash crop for export to Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Burundi. Cassava production in Tanzania is estimated at 5.4 million tonnes, according to the 2012 Food and Agriculture Organisation Corporate Statistical Database (FAOSTAT). In that year, Tanzania was the 12th largest cassava producer in the world and the 6th largest in Africa after Nigeria (top producer in the word), the DRC, Ghana, Angola and Mozambique.