FOUR people, including a woman appeared before the Bukoba Resident Magistrate’s court on Thursday to answer charges of unlawful possession of six elephant tusks worth 105.3m/-, property of the government. The accused who were brought to court under tight security were identified as Issa Omari (44), from Mabale village in Missenyi district, Anthony Sendege (27), from Mutukula village, Lazaro Kayoza (41) and Farida Mohamded (49), both from Mabuye village in Missenyi District. Prosecuting, State Attorney Haruna Shomari told the court that on the night of February 19 this year, the four accused were arrested at Rwazi village in Mutukula Ward and after being searched they were found in unlawful possession of six elephant tusks, property of the government. The accused were not asked to enter any plea because the case will be heard by the High Court. Magistrate Johanitha Rwehabura adjourned the PI Case No 1/2019 until March 20, this year and ordered the accused to be remanded in custody. Meanwhile, Najim Kassange alias Ilyas (37), the Councillor for Izigo Ward, in Muleba district on Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (Chadema) ticket has been convicted of unlawful making of a rubber stamp and sentenced to three years imprisonment. Kassange and second accused Ananias Mathias ((36), were facing two counts, conspiracy to commit an offence and unlawful making of a rubber stamp. Prosecuting, State Attorney Haruna Shomari told the court during the hearing of Criminal Case No 333/2016 that the two accused committed the offences before or on August 12, 2015. According to the prosecutor, the accused made a rubber stamp purporting to belong to Bukoba Advocate Eliphace Bengesi and later used the rubber stamp for purposes of enabling them to execute a sale agreement of a house valued at 50m/-, located in Dar es Salaam City between Hamdan Mushema and Kassange. Before passing the sentence, Magistrate Samuel Maweda noted that the prosecution proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. He convicted the two accused and sentenced them to three years imprisonment for each offence.