THE police in Dar es Salaam are holding Mr Kennedy Obworo (35), a resident of Sinza Africana, for allegedly intoxicating women and then raping, sodomising and stealing their properties. It is the same person, who has recently been reported by the police in Mwanza to have been arrested for similar offences. In Dar es Salaam, five women have filed cases against him, three at Tabata and two at Buguruni police stations. Soon after his arrest on Wednesday, Acting Ilala Police Regional Commander Ernest Matiko immediately directed his subordinates to take the suspect for HIV/Aids test to establish whether spreading of the disease (if affected) was among of the motives behind his evil intentions. The suspect narrated to the police the way he used to buy valium-related drugs from one of the pharmacies in Buguruni and secretly put it in a drink a woman takes. After few minutes, the drinker goes unconscious and he uses such an opportunity to accomplish his evil mission. The suspect also admitted that after sexual activities, he stole the victims’ mobile phones, money and other valuable properties, including necklaces and watches. “The suspect has admitted to have been committing rapes, sodomy and theft. When he is satisfied, he calls his friends to continue. He has also admitted to have committed similar offences in various parts of the country, including Mwanza, Arusha and Dar es Salaam,” said the Acting RPC. He added that in efforts to rescue women, the police would convince the court of law to deny him bail since he seemed to have been repeating similar offences. When asked on the progress of the suspect’s cases in Mwanza, Regional Commander Jumanne Muliro said they were progressing in court. RPC Muliro, who has also served as Kinondoni Regional Commander before he was transferred to Mwanza, confirmed to have been several times holding Mr Obworo (in Dar es Salaam) for similar offences. However, RPC Muliro said trial proceedings were slow because victims seemed to have been feeling shy, hence, refraining from witnessing in court.