FOLLOWING the devastating cyclone Idai and floods which have struck hard in Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe, causing hundreds of deaths and leaving more than a thousand people displaced, Tanzania has offered food and drugs aid to support the victims of the disaster The support includes 24 tonnes of drugs and 200 tonnes of maize and 14 tonnes of rice. The aid was handed over to the envoys of the countries in Tanzania by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, and the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Speaking during the loading of the consignment, Prof Kabuda said the move was in fulfilment of President John Magufuli’s directive to extend support to the countries after the devastating tragedy.Prof Kabudi pointed out that after getting the news, the President spoke to his counterparts and saw it fit to extend a helping hand. “These people are our neighbours, they are our family and both of us are members of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). We stand together with all the people in the countries, bearing in mind that a similar situation might one day occur in our country. As your neighbours their problems are our problems, their death is our death…we live by helping each other,” said Prof Kabudi. The minister explained that a military plane carrying 14 tonnes of rice and 16 tonnes of drugs, among other things, will be leaving for Mozambique and Zimbabwe today. Plus, seven trucks loaded with eight tonnes of drugs and 200 tonnes of maize will also take off from Mbeya for Kalonga in Malawi. “I would like to assure you that Tanzania is going to stand by you all the way until the situation comes to rest,” the minister remarked. He called upon members of the public and companies that have been touched and want to contribute anything, to do so through the Prime Minister’s Office, for subsequent delivery to the affected countries. Health Minister Ummy Mwalimu said that immediately after the President issued the directive, the ministry acted fast to ensure that the required drugs were obtained for immediate delivery to the needy. Ms Mwalimu communicated to her counterparts to find out the type of drugs needed and it appeared that the countries were needed antibiotics most, for prevention of disease outbreaks. As such, a large part of the consignment of drugs comprised antibiotics, oral rehydration sachets for prevention of diarrhoea, infusion and pain killers. Other items include mattresses, mosquito nets, blankets and bed sheets. She disclosed that Tanzania had a sufficient stock of drugs and medical supplies and would have wanted to offer more but the plane could only accommodate the consignment in question. “We would like to assure the countries of our support and we are ready to extend our help further by offering our doctors, if they request for it,” said Ms Mwalimu. Fears are growing for more than 500,000 people in the Mozambican city of Beira, after aid agency officials warned that 90 per cent of the area had been “destroyed” by Cyclone Idai. The cyclone slammed into the southeast African country as a high-end Category 2 storm with 175 kph (110 mph winds) at midnight on Thursday, causing widespread devastation, before moving inland into Zimbabwe and Malawi. Reports have indicated that the death toll in Mozambique from Cyclone Idai could be as high as 1,000 people, while in Malawi the death toll is reportedly 122 people and 98 deaths have been recorded in Zimbabwe as of yesterday morning.