THE Court of Appeal has made history in the country’s judicial system by conducting eight cases through a video conference in two days’ time, with the parties stationed at different locations, thus saving time, costs and other inconveniences. This is the first time for the court, the highest temple of justice in Tanzania, to use such a sophisticated system, which is considered to be cheap, less inconvenient and more effective in handling cases. The cases were conducted with one party stationed at the Kisutu Training and Information Resource Centre in Dar es Salaam, while the other was stationed at the High Court building in Mbeya City. In a special session held between yesterday and the day before yesterday, Justices Rehema Mkuye, Sivangilwa Mwangesi, Dr Gerald Ndika and Jacobs Mwambegele, were supposed to travel from Dar es Salaam to Mbeya and Sumbawanga to handle the cases. However, while in Dar es Salaam, the justices managed to control the proceeding effectively with the parties, from different locations addressing the court one by one, while observing the required procedure as if they were in face to face contact. Thanks to the introduction of this new system of hearing cases within the judiciary, the Court of Appeal Senior Deputy Registrar Elizabeth Mkwizu, said that the application of such a system demonstrates the Judiciary’s missions of timely dispensing justice and drawing justice closer to the people. “The use of video in conducting judicial proceedings is very cheap and beneficial not only to judicial officers but also to the parties in the litigation. Imagine, how much we would have spent in terms of costs and time to travel all the way to Mbeya and Sumbawanga to hear the cases,” she said. According to her, the justices assigned to hear the cases would have traveled all the way accompanied by drivers, assistants, registrars and court clerks to the registries where the cases were filed and spend some nights in hotels, thus costing the Judiciary a lot of money. “But our using this facility that connects Dar es Salaam and Mbeya, much has been saved in terms of time and money. Over these two days, we have been spending only 70,000/- per day per location; that is, 140,000/- per day. I think, this is cheap,” she said. Video conference is a live, visual connection between two or more people residing in separate locations for the purpose of communication. At its simplest, video conferencing provides transmission of static images and text between two locations. At its most sophisticated, the system provides transmission of full-motion video images and high-quality audio between multiple locations. The cases that were conducted through the new system include civil applications between Ex. F. 5842 Detective Corporal Maduhu against the Republic. There were other applications between Charles Kalunga and another against the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Festo Sudi against Ihombe Village Council, O sward Mruma against Mbeya City and Famari Investment (T) Limited against Dr Antony Nsojo and another. O ther three applications, according to the course list, involve Ismail Shaban against the Republic, Venance Kazuri against Eldard Sospeter and that of Agness Sanga against Amon Halinga and Peter Haonga. During the Law Day celebrations held at national level in Dar es Salaam early last month, Chief Justice Prof Ibrahim Juma told the audience that the Judiciary was now resorting to the use of high technology on a number of judicial functions, notably, filing and conducting of cases. He gave an example whereby on December 5, 2018, the High Court’s Commercial Division in Dar es Salaam, took evidence of a witness from France through video conferencing while seating at the Kisutu Training and Information Resource Centre, thus saving costs in case the witness were to be brought over to the city.conferencing