SIMBA SC Ugandan international lethal striker Emmanuel Okwi has not been included in the 20 strongman squad, which jetted off yesterday to Algeria ahead of their clash with hosts JS Saoura. The Msimbazi Reds will face JS Saoura in CAF Champions League penultimate group D match this Saturday at the 20,000 capacity Stade 20 Août 1955 in hot desert Méridja town, situated in western Algeria. Simba’s technical bench under Patrick Aussems decided to omit Okwi from the list of players travelled to Algeria because he is still nursing knee injury he picked during the Mainland Premier League game against Lipuli FC at the Samora Stadium in Iringa a week ago. Missing Okwi, means Simba striking force will be formed by Meddie Kagere and skipper John Bocco. Simba will be hunting for crucial victory or draw away to stand a chance of qualifying. Simba, who are placed second in the group with six points, one point behind group leaders Al Ahly of Egypt, left yesterday evening for Algiers via Dubai. Also not in the squad are experienced players – central defender Jjuuko Murshid and versatile defender Erasto Nyoni, who is reportedly to have recovered from injury that put him out since early January. The list which was released yesterday through the club’s Instagram account comprises Aishi Manula, Deogratius Munishi, Zana Coulibaly, Nicholas Gyan, Asante Kwasi, Mohammed Hussein, Pascal Wawa, Paul Bukaba and James Kotei. Others are Jonas Mkude, Mzamiru Yassin, Hassan Dilunga, Clatous Chama, Rashid Juma, Abdul Selemani, John Bocco, Meddie Kagere, Adam Salamba, Mohammed Ibrahim and Haruna Niyonzima. Despite missing Okwi, Head Coach Patrick Aussems is upbeat ahead of the match, saying his charges are ready to break Algeria’s JS Saoura’s unbeaten home record in CAF Champions League. Simba already have a positive record over the Algerians having defeated them 3-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first round. Aussems said he is not afraid of the current good home record by their opponents since everything has the beginning and an end. “It is true that JS Saoura have not lost any match at home in the ongoing CAF Champions League group stage but we are ready to break that and collect maximum three points there,” the Belgian said. He added that so far, he has observed that every team in the competition is doing well in their respective home matches just like the way his side has done in the past two games. Their Algerian opponents JS Saoura are third on the log with five points, while AS Vita from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) tail the group with four points. Meanwhile, Simba dependable right wing back, Shomari Kapombe, who has been out of action for couple of months due to leg injury is expected to fly to South Africa this week, for final checkup on his healing progress, before allowed to commence light training with his team.