THE proposed acquisition of Ophir Energy Plc, one of the partners in the planned $30 billion dollars (about 68.7trl/-) Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant in Tanzania by Indonesia Stock Exchange-listed Medco Energi Global Pte Limited, will not affect execution of the project which is slated to kick off in 2022. Medco Energi intends to acquire all the ten registered companies owned by Ophir Energy in Tanzania. However, industry players revealed to ‘Daily News’ in separate interviews yesterday that Ophir Energy Plc holds a minor share of the 57 trillion cubic feet (tcf) gas reserves which have been discovered onshore and offshore the Indian Ocean. Apart from the London Stock Exchange (LSE) listed Ophir Energy Plc, other partners in the envisaged LNG plant in Lindi Region include the State-owned Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), ExxonMobil, BG Group (part of Royal Dutch Shell), Equinor (formerly Statoil), and Pavilion. Reports from London, United Kingdom, indicate that the takeover is valued at US $539 million dollars (about 1.220tr/- at current exchange rates). The Indonesian company plans to fund the acquisition from a loan and its cash. The takeover is however subjected to thorough regulatory approval in Tanzania in which among others, the acquiring firm will be subjected to tax clearance by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) through payment of capital gain tax. Reacting to the development, the Acting Managing Director of TPDC, Engineer Kapuulya Musomba, told ‘Daily News’ that the intended acquisition will not affect agreements reached by parties in implementation of LNG project. “If the deal (the acquisition) goes through without objection then the new investor (Medco Energi) will be obliged to take on board all obligations committed by Ophir,” Eng Musomba explained during a telephon interview with this paper. The Acting Director General of Petroleum Upstream Regulatory Authority (PURA), Mr Charles Sangweni, told this paper that the industry regulator has no objection with the intended acquisition provided it adheres to requisite procedures. “At the end of the day it is the minister responsible for energy who is authorised to sanction the transfer of shares. Due diligence is undertaken to determine whether the acquiring firm is legally, financially and technically capable,” Mr Sangweni explained. The Fair Competition Commission (FCC) said in a public notice yesterday that it is currently investigating the intended acquisition in line with provisions of the Fair Competition Act No. 8 of 2003 and Competition Rules, 2018. “Parties, both legal and natural, who deem themselves as having sufficient interest in this merger, or, if the merger is not objected to, it will have or likely to have material on their interests are hereby notified to register their interests or objections (if any). “All such parties shall file and register such interest(s) or information by a way of written submissions to the FCC within fourteen days from the first day of publication of this notice,” the FCC announced in a public notice yesterday. Medco Energi Global Pte Limited is incorporated in Singapore with a footprint in Indonesia, Middle East and North Africa. It operates in energy and natural resources with its business activities comprising upstream oil and gas exploration, development and production. Tanzania has proven natural gas reserves of 57 tcf with at least 49.5 tcf of the reserves found offshore the Indian Ocean.