FORMALLY conjoined twins, Maryness and Anisia, who were successfully separated at King Abdullah Children Specialist Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, are in a stable condition and are expected to return home soon. The twins underwent a separation procedure, which lasted for 13 hours in December last year. It was performed in nine phases by 32 specialists. Maryness and Anisia were conjoined in the lower chest, abdomen and pelvis area, with each of them having one bottom extremity. They shared third lower extremity, liver, intestines, urinary and a reproductive system. Saudi Arabia Ambassador to Tanzania Mohammed Bin Mansour Almalik told journalists on Thursday during a dinner organised in honour of a team of medical experts from Saudi Arabia’s Al- Balsam International Organisation and have been in the country for a weeklong, providing charitable health services to Tanzanians. He said the operation to separate the twins was very successful and the children were doing well. “I am very pleased to bring this message concerning the twins. The separation operation went very smoothly, the children are in a stable condition and they are expected to return home soon,” he noted. Mr Almalik noted that the children were under observation to ascertain their health condition before they were discharged. He said that according to reports from the hospital they were expected to be released in the next two months. The envoy, however, explained that the health sector development in Saudi Arabia was in line with the development of science education. He noted that Saudi Arabia’s medical experts had successfully conducted a complicated procedure to separate the twins due to the quality of education they had received. Mr Almalik commended charitable groups from Saudi Arabia, which had been coming to Tanzania to provide services to children and other groups. He said the medical mission from Al-Balsam International Organisation, which has been in Tanzania for a weeklong, was a continuation of activities of other groups, which visited the country for a similar purpose. Tanzanian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Hemedi Mgaza said the medical mission from Saudi Arabia was part of the implementation of a cooperation agreement signed in 2016 between Tanzania and Saudi Arabia. He said he said the group of paediatric surgeons from Saudi Arabia was among the six groups, which visited Tanzania annually to provide charitable services. Mr Mgaza noted that the groups were organised by the Tanzanian Embassy in Saudi Arabia by communicating with various health experts and humanitarian aid organisations. Prof Zakaria Habib from Al-Balsam International Organisation said the mission comprised nine experts and had succeeded in performing 25 paediatric surgeries. He added that the mission also aimed at training local experts so that they could conduct advanced procedures, among others, minimally invasive laparoscopic procedures. Born at St Thereza Omukajunguti Health Centre in Missenyi District, Kagera Region, on January 29, 2018, the twins were airlifted from Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) to Saudi Arabia for the procedure last July under the auspices of the Saudi Arabia government.