THERE was joy and celebration when team Serengeti was announced overall winners of the 2019 Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE) sports bonanza which climaxed over the weekend in the city. Serengeti won most of the sport disciplines of the annual event beating their colleagues team Ngorongoro who defended the honour after winning the same competition last year. Different prizes ranging from trophies and medals were given to teams and individuals who brilliantly contested during the eventful bonanza. Ambokile Okay was voted the best player and top goal scorer in football while Victoria Kibona won the same accolade in Netball. In Volleyball and Basketball, William Mwapala stunned his fellow workmates to pocket two prizes to his name as he was voted the best player and top scorer respectively. Also, outstanding employees at the institution were recognised for their good works and motivated to work harder for their benefit and the college at large. Some of the activities lined up on the final day were athletics, darts, swimming, draft, tug of war, cards and many others. Briefing reporters on the day, DUCE Principal Bernadeta Killian said she was impressed to see that many female participants embraced the bonanza as compared to men. “As you know, this administration already directed government institutions to spare time for their employees to engage in sports and at DUCE, we do implement the directive by organising sports bonanza yearly,” she said. She added that for them to perform their duties successfully, they need to fully partake in numerous sport events which in turn improve their health. Furthermore, Killian urged other institutions in the country to set aside free time to allow their employees conduct various sports activities for their wellbeing. On her part, Duce lecturer Rosi Mbijima said the bonanza aside from improving their health, it also acts as the activity to nurture unity among the employees. “DUCE has many workers and we cannot know everyone without organising special events like this. We create new friends through sports,” she said.