THE Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Professor Faustin Kamuzora has advised Tanzanians to invest domestically through Treasury Bonds purchases, which in turn will raise their economic lives. The RAS made the appeal yesterday, while opening a training workshop organised by the Bank of Tanzania (BoT), in Bukoba Municipal Council. Expounding, he said a retired officer who invests in buying treasury bonds worth 50m/- will easily get good return within a six-year period, in comparison to one investing in housing scheme, which takes almost ten years for one to start enjoying the fruits. “My appeal to Tanzanians is to invest by buying Treasury Bonds. They are more guaranteed and their money gets hefty interest rate within a short period,” he pointed out. Prof Kamuzora also challenged the residents to establish investment companies in their midst, where an ordinary person will be capable to get entrepreneurship skills on investment. “When an individual becomes rich, the nation also becomes rich. This is a positive move in line with the fifth phase government vision of building a middle income nation by 2025,” he added. However, he challenged bank employees to seriously embark on educating their clients in public campaigns on how they would be bound to make profits once they make such investments. On his side, BoT Financial Analyst, Mr Fidelis Mkatte, hinted that the Treasury Bonds are currently being grouped into six tenures of two, five, seven, ten and 15 as well as 20 years, which an investor enjoys including being paid coupon bonds on half -yearly basis. According to Mr Mkatte, the Treasury Bonds have a long term maturity, whose biding is done on discount value, adding that Treasury Bonds have coupons, while income depends on amount discounted. The Financial Analyst also pointed out that medium and small-scale entrepreneurs can also easily access loans in the business, adding that many Tanzanians are showing up by registering themselves in the treasury bonds scheme.