PREVENTION and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Director of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Kulthum Mansoor (57) appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with eight counts, including money laundering of over 1.47bn/-. She was not allowed to enter any plea to the charges before Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina because the case falls under the Economic and Organised Crimes Control Act and the lower courts have no jurisdiction to try charges falling under this category. According to the law, economic cases are triable by the High Court. However, lower courts may try such cases upon securing a consent certificate from the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The magistrate ordered the accused to go to remand because the money laundering offence was not bailable. He adjourned the case until April 12, 2019 for mention. Investigation, according to the prosecution, led by State Attorney Wankyo Simon, is still going on. It was alleged that between January 2013 and May 2018 at the premises of the PCCB headquarters in Ilala District in the city, knowingly and with intent to deceit, the directorforged a letter of offer dated August 13, 2003, purporting to show that it was issued by Bagamoyo District Council. The prosecution further told the court that between January 2012 and May 2017 in Upanga, being a PCCB director, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, the accused obtained 29.2m/- from six different employees of PCCB. They are Alex Mavika, Wakati Katondo, Gogo Migutah, Ekwabi Majungu, John Sangwa and Rose Shigela. Such money, according to the prosecution, was payment for sales of different plots of land situated at Ukuni Village in Bagamoyo District, Coast Region. It was further alleged by the prosecution that the accused pretended to show that she was the owner of those plots, the fact she knew to beOn the money laundering count, the prosecution charged that the accused between January 2013 and May 2018 in Upanga, Ilala District, in the city, acquired 1,477,243,000/-, while she knew or ought to have known at the time of receipt the money was proceeds of a predicate offence of forgery. The arraignment of the director comes just after a day after President John Magufuli pointed out that some PCCB officials were implicated in corruption. He hinted at one of the directors, who deceitfully obtained money from his colleagues in exchange for land. When swearing in Commissioner of Police (CP) Diwani Athumani as the new PCCB Director General, the Head of State tasked him to clean up PCCB and review its structure. He equally directed him to intensify the war on corruption, including taking to court any person accused of corruption. In addition, the President pointed an accusing finger at PCCB and asked the new director general to assess the performance of its staff and sack anyone, who would be deemed as either a non-performer or colluding in any corrupt practice and drag him or her to court. "I want you to clean PCCB. Some PCCB officials involve themselves in corrupt practices. Go and sack them. I want to see PCCB delivering," he stressed