TAIFA Stars have seriously begun training ahead of their crucial group L last q ualifying match against Uganda while the campaign for the victory on March 24th clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam being intensified. Packed in group L, Taifa Stars are second on the table with five points, eight points behind leaders Uganda Cranes, who have already qualified with 13 points. Lesotho are third with five points, while Carpe V erde trail the list with four points. A win by Taifa Stars will enable them reach 8 points hence the outcome of the other fixture in the group between Lesotho and Carpe V erde will be the good judge for Stars’ destiny in the competition. As one way to add value to the team’s preparation, Chairman of the Winning Committee who serves as Regional Commissioner (RC) of Dar es Salaam Paul Makonda has called upon all Tanzanians to leave behind their club differences and storm the National Stadium on the day to support Taifa Stars. “We are now talking about the national football team. Forget about the clubs in the Mainland Premier League which you support and instead be on the forefront to rally behind our beloved team as we want to make another big history in the country’s football,” Makonda said yesterday while addressing members of the media in the city. He added that it will be pleasing to see the venue packed to capacity and fans to continuously cheer up the team to entice the players to give it all for the benefit of the whole country. Last week, Taifa Stars Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike unveiled the 2 5-strong member squad who included four new faces, while dropping versatile defender Erasto Nyoni, who is battling to regain match fitness after spell out due to injury. The four new faces include goalkeepers Mechata Mnata from Mbao FC, Aron Kalambo from Mbeya City, Suleman Salula from Malindi FC-Zanzibar and defender V incent Philipo from Mbao FC. There was no place for South Africa based Baroka FC defender Abdi Banda, who reportedly fell out with coach Amunike during their previous qualifiers clash away to Lesotho. Young Africans playmaker, Ibrahim Ajib has still failed to impress Amunike enough to be included in the squad, despite scoring six goals and providing 13 assists for his team in the Mainland Premier League campaign. Taifa Stars full squad: Goalkeepers: Aishi Manula (Simba), Mechata Mnata (Mbao FC), Aron Kalambo (Mbeya City) and Suleman Salula (Malindi FC-Zanzibar). Defenders: Hassan Kessy (Nkana), V incent Philipo (Mbao FC), Gadiel Micheal, Kelvin Y ondani and Andrew V incent (Y oung Africans), Agrey Morris (Azam FC), Kennedy Wilson (Singida FC) and Ally Mtoni (Lipuli FC). Midfielders: Feisal Salum (Y oung Africans), Himid Mao (Petrojet- Egypt), Mudathiri Y ahya (Azam FC), Y ahya Zayd (Ismaily- Egypt) and Johas Mkude (Simba). Strikers: Shabani Chilunda (Tenerife-Spain), Shiza Kichuya (ENPPI SC-Egypt), Simon Msuva (Difaa El Jadid-Morocco), Rashid Mandawa (BDF X I Botswana), Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk-Belgium), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura-Algeria), John Bocco (Simba) and Fared Mussa (Tenerife-Spain). Addressing media after naming the squad, Amunike said he has big hopes that for the first time after 3 9 years, Taifa Stars will qualify into this year’s AFCON finals in Egypt. “We need to work hard during our preparations in order to defeat Uganda, who despite the fact that they have already booked the ticket to Egypt, they will not be coming here to play friendly match. They want to win too,” Amunike said.