YOUNG Africans resolve to win Mainland Premier League title this season will face a tough test today as they take on KMC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The Jangwani Street lads enjoy the driver’s seat on 64 points from 26 matches and they sit eight points clear at the summit ahead of second placed Azam FC, who are on 56 points from 27 matches. Yanga are 13 points above defending Champions Simba, who are placed third on 51 points from 20 games. KMC, who are in their debut season in the top flight have so far defied odds as they are placed fourth on the log with 41 points from 28 matches. Going into the match, Yanga Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera said his charges are in great shape ready to take on KMC. The outspoken Congolese tactician, said he is aware that KMC will pose a serious threat against Yanga just like it was in the first round encounter in which, Yanga had to wait until a minute before the final whistle to snatch a winner through Feisal Salum ‘Fei Toto’ stunner. Yanga will come into the match fresh from their hard earned 1-0 victory against resurgent Alliance FC at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza a week ago. Substitute Amissi Tambwe poached and scored the lonely goal of the match in the 74th minute following nervy moments inside the host team’s penalty box, which was enough to give them the highly demanded positive results from the hot match. And, it will be another tough test on their title credential as KMC have so far proved to be a difficult side to face basing on the fact that it has recruited a good number of experienced players, including former Taifa Stars first choice goalkeeper, Juma Kaseja. KMC Head Coach, Burundian, Ettiene Ndayiragije said he respects Yanga and the match will be tough but said, his charges will go for nothing but positive results. “Competition in the league is stiff at the moment because each team wants to win... my lads are in great spirit to collect maximum points tomorrow (today),” he said. The league is entering a crucial stage as teams are divided into three segments. The segments include those at the top end, which are battling for the title and those at the bottom end battling to avoid relegation, while there are those in mid table, who are battling for pride. Meanwhile, Azam FC have continued with their recovery and return into the title race picture, following a massive 6-1 win over JKT Tanzania at the Chamazi Complex in Dar es Salaam on Friday night. Zimbabwean striker, Donald Ngoma came from the bench in the second half and scored a brace for Azam in the 60th and 78th minute. Other goals for Azam were netted by Aggrey Morris in the 16th minute, Mudathir Yahya, who scored in the 26th minute, while striker Obrey Chirwa fired in in the 74th minute. Azam drilled the last nail into the coffin in Daniel Lyanga two minutes before the final whistle, while JKT Tanzania consolation goal was scored in the 81st minute by Hassan Matalema. Meanwhile, Tanzania Prisons maintained their impressive run to escape relegation following a 2-1 victory of bottom placed African Lyon at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Adam Adam netted a brace in the second half to give the Mbeya lads maximum points. Ramadhani Chombo put African Lyon ahead in the first half before Adam equlised in the 51st minute, and grabbed his second in the 68th minute. Host Lipuli FC beat Mwanza’s Mbao FC 1-0 at the Samora Stadium in Iringa, while Kagera Sugar lost 0-1 at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba at the hands of Coastal Union of Tanga. Mtibwa Sugar beat Stand United 2-0 at the Manungu Complex in Turiani, Morogoro.