THE High Court of Tanzania, Dodoma Registry, has blessed the move by Speaker of the National Assembly Job Ndugai to declare Arumeru East Constituency vacant, thus unseating Mr Joshua Nassari as Member of Parliament (MP). This was after Judge Ratifa Mansour dismissed the constitutional petition Mr Nassari under Chadema had lodged against the Speaker and the Attorney General (AG). Judge Mansour upheld some grounds of objection raised by Principal State Attorneys Alicia Mbuya, Masunga Kamuhanda and Pius Mboya with effect that the petition was wrongly filed in court and that there was no decision of the Speaker capable of being challenged in court. Referring to Rule 5(4) of the Parliamentary Standing Orders, the Judge agreed with the attorneys that the MP should have taken his case to the Clerk of the National As-sembly instead of resorting to court action. Mr Nassari filed his case in court after the Speaker informed the National Electoral Commission (NEC) that the constituency was vacant after the incumbent MP had lost qualifications to continue serving as the lawmaker for having failed to attend three consecutive parliamentary sessions. The named sessions that Mr Nassari had failed to attend, included that of September and November last year and the one starting in January to February this year. It was stated that the office of the Speaker had not been informed of his absence. Presenting preliminary points, state attorneys were opposed to the line of argument presented by Mr Nassari’s lawyers that the Speaker had unseated him illegally. The Judge noted that in terms of Rule 146(2) of Parliamentary Standing Orders, the MP ceases to be such after failing to attend threeconsecutive sessions. After the court session, counsel Fred Kalonga representing Mr Nassari told reporters that there was a possibility of appealing against the High Court’s decision, as there were several grounds that were left undetermined. He cited Rule 5, which had been relied upon by the court to reach the conclusion could not allow Mr Nasari to take his case to the Clerk of the National Assembly and under sub-Rule (3) of 146 of Standing Orders his client was not served with any warning, but the Speaker went straight to unseat him. Earlier, the sacked MP said he had communicated to the office of the Speaker on the reasons for his absenteeism, in particular, the January 2019 session. He claimed that he had accompanied his ailing wife, who later gave birth two days before the start of the session. According to him, he could not see the logic behind the Speaker's decision, claiming that it was made without him being given the right to defend himself. He maintained that the situation he was going through at the time was very common to any parent