DEPUTY Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Mr Constantine John Kanyasu has challenged owners and hotel facilities to improve on quality of service delivery. The Minister was categorical that the once privatised state facilities could be repossessed by the government if the proprietors fail to live up to their expectations. Mr Kanyasu sounded the warning at the weekend when he toured the Ngorongoro Wildlife Lodge which is located within the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA). He said that the government was aware that some of the facilities that were once run by the State Travel Services(STS) before getting privatised, weren’t living up to their billings, warning that they risk getting repossessed by the government. “It is our desire as a government to see these hotels and lodges being run and managed by Tanzanians, we will be compelled to hand them over to locals because some of the investors have demonstrated failure in running them,” said the deputy minister. He stated that the government wouldn’t afford seeing the country’s tourism sector getting tarnished because of the poor services offered by some of the hotels and lodges, particularly those located in national parks. He further pointed out that the country’s hospitality industry was contributing dearly to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), adding that mediocre service delivery had no place in the sector. “The number of tourist arrivals currently stand at 1.5million each year, we cannot achieve the desired two million target when the services of our hotels are questionable,” asserted the deputy minister. While touring the fivestar facility, Mr Kanyasu urged Ngorongoro Wildlife Lodge General Manager, Mr Ajay Bahl to slash down the room prices with a view of also accommodating domestic tourists. The Deputy Minister observed that the facility was experiencing low season, having few guests compared to the number of rooms available. “If you want to fill up the rooms and make a kill, then you’ll have to greatly reduce your prices,” the minister suggested. Deputy Conservator with the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) Mr Needpeace Wambuya told the minister that his office has ensured that the more than 10 facilities within the NCA maintain quality service delivery. “This involves issuing warning to those defying our orders,” he said. Before touring the NCAA, the deputy minister had earlier visited the Lobo Wildlife Lodge located in the North of Serengeti National Park with a view of assessing its performance. He was also due to tour the Lake Manyara Serena Safari Lodge.