FORMER Prime Minister Edward Lowassa yesterday visited Monduli for the first time since he re-joined the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) from Chadema. Mr Lowassa, who was received to the party yesterday afternoon after requisite party processes thanked God and President John Magufuli for his love and conviction that made him go back to CCM. Mr Lowassa said President Magufuli and the party had impressed him so much and the pace was amazing in development throughout the country and so he should be supported to do more. “I thank the President for his love and conviction and now the country is on the right track. I am joining him in the best interests of the country ... for Chadema I say thank you,” said Mr Lowassa. He further noted that the President had wanted to be in Monduli, but couldn’t. He thanked his family and advocated peace in the country so that development could be achieved. “Let us challenge each other politically, but peacefully. I have come back home to cooperate in development and work with President Magufuli. I got six million votes in the 2015 general election. Thank you all. You may now direct them to President Magufuli,” said Mr Lowassa. Mr Lowassa, who was accompanied by his wife Regina, touched down at Arusha Airport, Kisongo, at noon before proceeding to CCM Monduli District Office grounds, where he addressed a rally. He was received by, among others, CCM National Executive Committee Publicity Secretary Humphrey Polepole, CCM Arusha regional and Monduli district leaders as well as party stalwarts, religious and traditional leaders, who had time to address the rally to welcome him. The Ukawa presidential candidate in the 2015 general election, who had emerged second after Dr Magufuli, was received in Dar es Salaam recently by CCM National Chairman President John Magufuli and Secretary- General, Dr Bashiru Ally, at CCM’s Lumumba sub-headquarters and proclaimed that he was back home. Speaking at Arusha Airport, Mr Lowassa’s son Fredy, said the family was back to CCM and members would remain friends with their Chadema counterparts as well as those in CCM. Mr Polepole said after Lowassa’s return to CCM hundreds others would also return. He called some of them, who were in attendance yesterday collected their opposition cards and he directed them to follow proper channels to re-join the party. He said Mr Lowassa had explained to CCM national leaders for more than two hours why he returned to the ruling party and the leaders were convinced by him. CCM Regional Chairman Lota Sanare said at the rally that it was a great moment for Mr Lowassa to return, while Monduli MP welcomed him to CCM. The chairman called on all those, who had defected to Ukawa to follow procedures by applying for party membership afresh through letters to their respective branches as Mr Lowassa did. Simanjiro MP told Mr Lowassa that it was a blessing in disguise for him to lose the presidential race for what he said Mr Lowassa would not have assistants to lead the government with. Before the event was finalised it started drizzling. The selling of party T-shirts, scarfs and caps started. Mr Lowassa’s photos in CCM attire were also sold.