THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe says Lindi Region is “a hidden treasure” due to availability of unexploited resources. Speaking to reporters in Lindi town yesterday at the ongoing Lindi Business Forum, Dr Mwakyembe said Lindi was one of biggest regions in the country with various business opportunities, including oceans, arable land and forests that had not been adequately utilised. The three-day Business Forum, organised by Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited in collaboration with the Office of the Lindi Regional Commissioner, is seeking to bring together stakeholders to explore business and investment opportunities iThe forum will also provide a platform for stakeholders to seek answers on various challenges that face entrepreneurs and investors in the region. Dr Mwakyembe, who doubles as the Business Forum’s chairman, said that so far TSN’s Business Forum has been conducted in eight regions across the country. He added: “According to reports from Lindi RC’s office, the region has many business opportunities compared to other areas where this forum has already taken place. Lindi has a port, beaches with international standard like Zanzibar and thick forests ....and geographically, Lindi is easily reachable. There are many opportunities that need to be exploited,” the minister said. He said since Lindi farmers grow cash crops, including cashew nuts and sesames, and there are opportunities for investors to set up processing industries. Dr Mwakyembe named financial institutions that are participating in the ongoing Lindi Business Forum as CRDB Bank, NMB Bank, TIB Development Bank, whose representatives will explain how to access loans, how to invest and other related investment issues. Meanwhile, Lindi Regional Commissioner Godfrey Zambi asked Lindi residents and other business stakeholders to use the forum for gaining business knowledge and boost their capital. TSN is the publisher of Daily News, HabariLeo and SpotiLeo newspapers. It also runs an online YouTube Chanel, Daily News Digital and their respective websites as well as social media platforms. Lindi is the 9th region to host the Business Forum in collaboration with TSN. Other regions where the forum has already been held are Geita, Shinyanga, Tanga, Simiyu, Mwanza, Zanzibar, Arusha and Tabora.