AFTER running a successful conservation tourism model industry in Tanzania, Singita Sasakwa Lodge located in the Grumeti Reserves in northern part of the country that forms part of the Serengeti Mara ecosystem is now expanding its footprint into Rwanda, where it will open a luxurious lodge in August this year. That was revealed in a statement by Singita Executive Chairman, Mr Luke Bailes, while talking to the ‘Daily News’ recently, adding that they decided to bank on the country as a result of good brotherly political and business atmosphere they are enjoying from the neighbours. He said the new Singita Lodge will be located adjacent to the Rwandan Volcanoes National Park that has splendid tourists’ attractions and good infrastructure, tourists and researchers as well as the public will find it comfortable to use. “As we look forward to expanding Singita’s footprint, we will take our successful conservation tourism model into other key African conservation zones. In partnership with the Rwandan government, Singita Kwitonda Lodge, is currently under construction and it is set to open in August 2019,” pointed out Mr Bailes. In Tanzania, Singita Grumeti operates several world class lodges within the vicinity of a 350,000 –acre concession, bordering the world famous Serengeti National Park. The lodges are Singita Faru Faru Lodge, Singita Sasakwa Lodge, Singita Sabora Tented Camp, Singita Explore and Singita Serengeti House and the remote Lamai triangle which offers Singita Mara River Tented Camp. Sasakwa Lodge has been named by Travel -Leisure Magazine of the United States as the best Hotel in the world several times, making Tanzania’s tourism industry to shine globally. Singita Grumeti is seen as the top investor with significant contribution on sustainable conservation activities, and local development in Western Serengeti, part of the great Serengeti ecosystem in Mara Region. Besides creating opportunities for hundreds of Tanzanians, the investor also spends substantial amounts of money on purchasing products produced by local entrepreneurs. Singita says its good partnership with Rwandan government has made it possible to set up a new exiting project that will help bolster gorilla conservation efforts in the Volcanoes National Park. “Singita Kwitonda Lodge, is an example of how collaboration can actively advance conservation efforts, and how crucial investment and the adoption of such projects is booming to Africa’s future generations, ” reads part of the statement. Singita operates 12 worldclass lodges and camps in five regions across three African countries. Singita Sabi Sand and Singita Kruger National Park in South Africa are home to the magnificent lodges, Ebony, Boulders, Castletown, Sweni and Lebombo, while a pristine 130,000-acre property in Zimbabwe, Singita Pamushana, houses a lodge by the same name. The tourism company’s hospitality operation partially funds the conservation work carried out on its private reserves and concessions. “As a conservation safari brand, Singita differentiates itself in a philosophical way. Whereas the growth of many businesses worldwide is bottom- line driven, Singita’s decisions take into account 20, 50 and even 100-year horizons,” says Mr Bailes. “People feel privileged to stay in unpopulated, untouched wilderness areas and they choose to stay with us because our lodges and camps have a reputation for being rare and authentic, while embodying a philosophy of sensitivity.” adds Mr Bailes. “There’s an authenticity of place at each of our lodges that is not only a rarity but touches guests on every level –spiritual, emotional and physical,” he says further. With a legacy exceeding 25 years of conservation in Africa, Singita stands tall as a conservation brand with a commitment to the sustainability of each property by continuing to build upon three core pillars. The pillars are biodiversity management, sustainable operations and community support. Singita, meaning ‘Place of Miracles’ in the Shangaan language, is a conservation and eco-tourism company, founded on an enduring 100- year vision to preserve and protect large areas of iconic and rare African wilderness for future generations.