CHILDREN Dignity Forum (CDF), a non-governmental organisation advocating children’s rights, has facilitated the formation of 16 girls' clubs in secondary schools to promote children’s rights in Mpwapwa District. CDF Programme Officer Evans Rwamuhuru said during a recent training workshop that the clubs provided a platform for discussion on different issues affecting children. "CDF works together with the girls’ clubs to promote children's rights for most vulnerable children, especially girls, through the creation of working forums that empower children, families and communities," he said during the workshop. The workshop, which was organised by CDF, brought together 30 victims of teenage pregnancy from four wards in the district to be trained in entrepreneurial skills to enable them to engage in income generating activities. Mr Rwamuhuru named the wards as Pwaga, Berege, Kibakwe and Mpwapwa Urban. "The clubs work together with communities surrounding the schools to promote children's rights. They play a key role in advocating children's rights, especially girls in communities," he said. Mr Rwamuhuru noted that CDF’s main aim was to implement different programmes, which promoted, advocated and improved the rights and wellbeing of children in the country. "CDF helps to mobilise the community, change public attitudes on issues concerning children, influence policy and build capacity for children's participation in development," he said. Mr Rwamuhuru noted further that CDF implemented a number of programmes through its core values mainly the creation and promotion of similar conditions necessary for access to resources, benefits and participation for both men and women. He explained that CDF helped to establish a supportive environment for the enhancement of meaningful child protection and sustainable participation of children in development initiatives in their communities. Mr Rwamuhuru observed that his NGO engaged men and boys in the promotion of women and girls' right to uphold gender equality.