SIMBA resumed training yesterday, ahead of their Saturday’s do or die match of CAF Champions League against DR Congo giants AS Vita Club. The eagerly awaited final group D match will be staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and Simba need nothing but victory to book their ticket into the quarterfinals of the continental top tier clubs championship. Patrick Aussems charges which jetted back in Dar es Salaam from Algeria on Tuesday evening kicked off training at B oko Veteran ground yesterday, in preparations for the vital match, which will see the winner cruise into the knockout stage of the tournament. Some of the key and experienced players, who were left behind from the Algeria journey -- Erasto Nyoni, Emmanuel Okwi and Jjuuko Murshid joined the rest of their colleagues in the training session to shape up for the match. According to the team Physician, Yassin Gembe Nyoni and Okwi, who were in the injury list, are reportedly in good shape to kick off training and could be available for selection in the match against Vita Club. However, the Ivorian central defender, Pascal Wawa and midfielder, Haruna Niyonzima, who had sustained minor ankle injuries during their match against J S Saoura, are still under observation but Gembe is in no doubt that they will be fit for the match. After seeing his team suffering a 2-0 defeat to hosts JS Saoura in B echar, Aussems is optimistic his side can make it into the knockout stage of the CAF Champions League by knocking out AS Vita of Congo DR in their final group stage match. Aussems said he was hopeful his charges will do their best if well supported by home crowd, adding the home support can enable the team to beat any side, but he as well predicted a very difficult battle against experienced Congolese side. “ A win is vital for us because everybody knows if we win on Saturday, we will be in the quarter finals and this is a very big motivation for us especially players as they can write history for themselves and the club too,” said Aussems. He further added that his players now know they have their destiny on their hands so they have to be ready for the Saturday’s game. Simba had a poor record in away venues at the group stage after losing 5-0 to AS Vita in the first leg match staged in Kinshasa, before losing by the same margin to Al Ahly in Cairo and recently lost 2-0 to JS Saoura in Algeria. However, the team has the best record at home venue, a situation that boosts their hope of making it to the knockout stage. They won 3-0 against JS Saoura in their opener at the National Stadium before stunning the Egyptian giants Al Ahly and the tournament’s eight times winner with 1-0 win in Dar es Salaam. Losing against JS Saoura saw Simba, who were earlier placed second in the group, dropping to the bottom of the table, while J S Saoura, who were third-placed, climbed up to the top after collecting eight points, hence leapfrogging Ahly. Meanwhile, AS Vita Club left Kinshasa late yesterday for Dar es Salaam ahead of their final Group D match against Simba at the National Stadium. In the morning the team attended a final training session at Stade de Martyr before their scheduled flight to Dar es Salaam, according to the sources from Congolese capital. AS Vita who defeated Al Ahly 1-0 in their penultimate game, will bank on Jean-Marc Makusu who has netted three goals in their campaign, Kazadi Kasengu, Makwekwe Kupa, Padou B ompunga, Fabrice Luamba Ngoma and Tuisila Kisinda who have each scored one goal. Sources in Kinshasa say Makusu is the man to watch once Simba want to avoid upset as the player is slippery lethal like mamba. They have a good record of scoring 80 goals from 40 matches making an average of 2.00 goals per game.