TIGO Tanzania has through local organisation, Apps and Girls committed to develop digital generation for girls and young aspiring to become tech-entrepreneurs. Tigo’s Managing Director, Simon Karikari, unveiled this in Dar es Salaam over the weekend at the commemoration of International Women’s Day, where the two parties, Tigo as well as Apps and Girls launched new campaign dubbed ‘TECH IS FEMALE’. “The support aims at facilitating the implementation of an innovative cyclical process where a group of carefully selected young girls and women will undergo training in advanced coding, entrepreneurship and recruited into a special mentorship and incubation programme,” he said. He said ‘TECH IS FEMALE’ initiative aims to provide equal access to technology for all girls and young women aged 14 -24 years in school and out of school to fuel their economic and digital empowerment and become digital champions in the ever changing world of technology. The Founder of Apps and Girls, Carolyne Ekyarisiima, said that the movement will run all year long. “Our target is to provide coding trainings to girls in 61 public secondary schools under the Tigo e-schools programme countrywide and to the out of school marginalized girls and young women as well. “Our countrywide outreach will go through a very rigorous process, where at the end, we expect to get a cream of 30 girls and young women, in and out of school, who will be inducted into the special mentorship and incubation programme,” she said. Some, from the cream of 30, will be attached to Tigo’s ICT department for further training, while others will work on other projects, “as we groom them, secure jobs and self-employment opportunities for them.” The partnership with Apps and Girls aimed to invest in young women as potential tech entrepreneurs, tech creators, tech role models and leaders, in Tanzania and across Sub- Saharan Africa. The partnership has supported Apps and Girls’ interventions in schools and the entire community where more than 3000 girls have been impacted and led to the birth of tech entrepreneurs, tech creators, tech role models and leaders driving change across Tanzania.