THE National Environment Management (NEMC) has confirmed the feasibility of Stiegler’s Gorge Hydroelectric Project after conducting an exhaustive environmental and social impact assessment, according to NEMC Director General Samuel Gwamaka. He told members of the NEMC board of directors touring the project site that nothing was left to chance. “Being the institution responsible for management of our environment, we participate in all early stages and all basic pre-execution environment and social impact assessments made before this project were allowed to go ahead. The implementation of this project will not harm the environment,” he assured. “NEMC officials,” he said, “will make frequent visits to the project to ensure environmental protection compliance.” He explained that the project had great significance to Tanzania’s development and economic growth, adding that NEMC would cooperate with other institutions to ensure the implementation of the project did not harm the environment. “Our task is to facilitate the implementation of this big power project because it has great bearing on the national industrialisation process.” He explained that national development was multi-sectoral, adding that NEMC had prepared itself well to play its role and be an active participant in the implementation of government projects. Dr Gwamaka said NEMC would emphasise public awareness to ensure Tanzanians were active players in environmental protection, particularly people living near water sources. He said people must appreciate the importance of protecting sources of water bodies, especially those pouring water into Rufiji Basin to enable the project to become sustainable. Deputy Minister of State in Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) Mussa Sima toured regions, whose water sources flowed to Rufiji River to see how best those water catchment areas were protected. He directed the authorities to protect them at any cost possible to ensure adequate flow of water in the construction of the mega hydropower project estimated to produce 2,100MW. The tour took him to Mtwara, Lindi, Ruvuma, Njombe, Mbeya, Iringa, Morogoro and to Rufiji River where the project site was situated.