FINANCIAL constrain has forced Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) to change their plans and now, they will send only girls national youth team for the Under- 21 African Nations Beach Volleyball Championship. The continental level finals that was earlier scheduled to be held in Algiers, Algeria from April 3 to 8th this year, has now shifted to Cairo, Egypt on same dates. National team Coach, Shukuru Ally told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that TAVA was struggling to find sponsors to send both girls and boys teams at the competition. Both teams were due to make their maiden appearance at the competition. They booked their tickets to the prestigious finals after doing well in the Zone Five Under- 21 qualifying competition held in Dar es Salaam early this month. However, Ally said that they have been forced to withdraw boys’ team at competition due to financial hardship. “We have already secured return air tickets to Egypt for two players and a coach so far,” he said. He added that the girls’ team was still looking for allowances (about USD 1500) for a week-long competition so as to have smooth participation in the event. “On behalf of TAVA, I would like to thank sports well-wishers, who offered us air tickets, this is huge step forward towards helping the country make maiden appearance at competition,” he said. Ally stressed that TAVA still call for sports well-wishers and companies to come forward and assists the team. Tanzania girls’ team for the Egypt event consists -- Jonia Jovin and Kuruthumu Jumanne, who are students of Makongo Secondary School of Dar es Salaam. The coach said the team is young and determined one and that Egypt trip will be big boost to their game. Ally said that if the country will work together and support beach volleyball, Tanzania can go places because the game does not require big investments to prosper. “It is easy to groom beach volleyball team because it take only two players, but TAVA itself cannot do all, sponsors and government should chip in,” he said. Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania qualified during the Zone Five championship held at Mbalamwezi Beach Hotel in Dar es Salaam. The competition saw Tanzania win girls’ title, while Kenya took boys trophy.