THE government is set to introduce the assembling and recycling technology centre of the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) equipment including mobile phones in the country. An innovation comes following the massive growth of the ICT industry whose effective application requires local expertise in repairing the communications gadgets in regular use by the local consumers. Revealing the plan over the weekend, the Director of Communications in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications Eng Clarence Ichwekeleza said the need for the technology comes as the country had no factories for mobile phone spares and other communications equipment. “We don’t have factories for manufacturing spares for mobile phones and other communications gadgets but we are soon working on a massive plan to introduce special centre that will be earmarked for assembling and recycling of the communications equipment including mobile phones,” said Eng Ichwekeleza. The statement resulted from a question posed by one of the mobile phone technicians who wanted to know the government plan to introduce local factory of spares for mobile phones following massive growth of telecommunications industry in the country. In a meeting also attended by the Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Eng Atashasta Nditiye, the Mwanza based technicians expressed concerns on what they called harassment from the Police Force when they are found with imported mobile phone spares. Raising the matter on behalf of his colleagues, technician Ally Hassan said the Police officers were harassing them when found with spares for mobile phones on pretax of combating cybercrime. Responding to some of the matters raised by the representatives of about 150 local technicians who attended the meeting, Eng Nditiye challenged them to work closely with the law enforcers to curb cybercrime and other ICT related challenges. He said his ministry was impressed by the decision of Mwanza based local mobile phone technicians to form their organisation saying through their body they will be easily identified and supported to operate legally. The Deputy Minister challenged other regions to borrow a leaf from Mwanza directing all the local technicians of mobile phones and other communications equipment to unite and form organisations and cooperative unions. As a result of such organisation, the Deputy Minister hinted, cybercrimes and theft of mobile phones were reportedly reduced in Mwanza Region insisting that model should be reciprocated in other regions across the country. Eng Nditiye assured all the players in the communications industry of the government support but warned notorious people branding themselves as technicians and engineers playing dirty tactics to steal from the mobile phone users saying they will not be spared by any means. “But despite those achievements you still have to abide by the laws and stop colluding with criminal gangs to conduct cybercrimes. We are aware that some of you are not as honest as they would want to be recognised,” he said.