PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said the government is unhappy over recent incidents of physical punishment to pupils in schools which left them seriously injured. He cited the recent incident at Kibeta Primary School in Kagera Region, where a teacher caned a pupil, Sperius Eradius, to death, adding that the government was saddened by that incident. The premier was speaking here when officiating the 6th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of regional and district education officers which kicked off here yesterday. Mr Majaliwa asked the Regional Education Officers (REOs) and District Education Officers (DEOs) to supervise pupils’ discipline, alongside punishments by teachers which are purely unrealistic. “The issue of discipline for our pupils is an obligation of all teachers, by discharging their duties through teaching, widening the understanding of pupils, leading them and ensuring that they are physically fit,’’ he stressed, adding: “However, the government was not happy with recent incidents where some teachers broke the hands of pupils in the course of administering punishment to them.’’ He said there was a weakness in supervision of the various punishments given to pupils and students, asking the education officers to keep eyes on those punishments. He asked DEOs and REOs to remind teachers so that they can consider the punishment guidelines under Section 61 of the Education Act and its subsequent regulations. In another development, Mr Majaliwa warned education officers to stop engaging themselves in dubious deals of national examination leakage and improper arrangements of examination results. He said the government would not hesitate to take appropriate legal actions against those engaging in such acts. “There have been incidences where teachers have been colluding with education officers to steal exam papers, and I want to warn you that we will not tolerate such irresponsible actions,’’ he added. He said such acts were tarnishing the image of the entire country, directing the regional and district examination committees to enforce laws without fear or favour. The PM also directed them to go out and visit the schools instead of confining themselves in offices and relying on reports and papers that may not be realistic. Earlier, the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, asked the education officers to provide accurate statistics regarding education so that the government can use them in budgetary plans. She warned those who were doctoring statistics, pointing out that it was not the best way to move forward as a nation.