COMPANIES, Institutions and sports well-wishers have been requested to come forward and support Girls & Women’s in Sports Day events. Organised by a Basketball Dar es Salaam (BD) the sports day event is scheduled to be held on March 8th this year at the Jakaya Mrisho Kiwete (JMK) Youth Park in Dar es Salaam. Coordinator of the event, who is also the Director of Women Basketball Development of BD, Bainasi Wamunza told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam that preparations are on the top gear for them to stage the event. She said that the event that will be part of the International Women’s Day Celebrations will be open for girls and women, who will battle it out in different sports disciplines. “We want to stage a memorable event for women and girls, thus we invite different sports games to come together and make it successful day,” she said. Wamunza named sports disciplines that are lined for the event as basketball, hockey, football, netball and dancing competition. “So far those are the sports disciplines that we can confirm teams will compete in. We are also waiting for confirmation from volleyball officials, we would like to have them too,” she said. She said that they are still in need of support from sponsors to make the event successful. She also appealed for those who wish to come forward. Wamunza said sponsors who have so far stepped in to support the event include TV1 who will cover the event, TMH Healthy Centre and JMK Park who offered the venue that will be used during the day, while Azam will sponsor drink for participants. “The door was still open for other sponsors to come forward and make the Women’s Day celebrations memorable,” she said. She said that the day’s themes is ‘Influence, Inspire and Celebrate’ and apart from using the day as platform to make awareness on the important of sports participation for girls and women, it will also be an ideal place for people to come together and share experience. “This will be ideal platform for women to come together as we hardly have opportunity like this that bring us all together,” she said.