YOUNG Africans and Alliance FC will today renew their premiership rivalry when they clash in the quarterfinals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) at CCM- Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Yanga come into the match having lost 1- 0 to Lipuli FC away at Samora Stadium in Iringa in their last Mainland Premier League outing. The Jangwani Street lads will certainly be looking to regain their winning method and cruise into the last four stage. A contingent of 20 Yanga players and eight officials are in Mwanza ahead of the clash today minus skipper, Ibrahim Ajib, who was reportedly left in Dar es Salaam nursing thigh injury. Yanga stepped into the ASFC last eight after a hard fought 1-0 victory over Lindi based Namungo FC, thanks to a solitary goal netted by Congolese striker, Herritier Makambo. Speaking prior to the trip to Mwanza, the team’s Communication Officer, Dismas Ten said the team was in great shape ready for the clash. “As you know, we are active contenders in two major competitions -- the Mainland Premier League and ASFC… our target is to excel in both contests,” Ten said. Mwinyi Zahera charges are eager to win the trophy and secure ticket to represent the country in the next edition of CAF Confederation Cup. They are likely to use whatever means to ensure they emerge victorious in today’s encounter against red hot Alliance. However, it is not going to be easy for Yanga to win against Alliance, who are well known for their sexy football. Alliance will be out for revenge mission as they lost to Yanga in bothtwo legs in the top flight. They succumbed to a 3-0 thumping away at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first leg, before losing 1-0 in recent return leg at the Kirumba Stadium. Winner of today’s match will face Iringa’s Lipuli FC, who booked their ticket into the semifinals after a 2-0 victory over Singida United in another quarter finals match held on Wednesday this week at Samora Stadium. K i n o n d o n i based premier l e a g u e side; KMC also progressed to the semis following a 2-0 win over African Lyon at the Major General Isamuhyo ground in Dar es Salaam last Wednesday. KMC will now face A z a m FC, who snatched a hard f o u g h t 1-0 victory over hosts Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba yesterday.