THE Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (T FDA), has reportedly embarked upon a campaign to educate some 12,000 pupils in 30 secondary schools in the country’s Central Zone (headq uartered in the nation’s political capital Dodoma) on the proper use of foods, medicinal drugs and eq uipment/dev ices, as w ell as cosmetics. The move w as commended by the Acting Singida Region Secondary School Education Officer, Walter Jenaeli, saying the campaign w ould go a long w ay in reducing the adv erse effects of improper cosmetics use by school girls. [ G oogle for ‘ TF DA yawaelimisha wanafunzi madhara ya v ipodozi; ’T anzania Daima: March 9, 2019]. TFDA is the primary organization in Tanzania w hich is tasked w ith the registration of premises and products, as w ell as the issuance of licences to businesses trading in products related to food, drugs and cosmetics, as w ell as medical products and services. TFDA’s overriding objectiv e is to protect the health of consumers against the hazards associated w ith food, drugs –including herbal drugs – cosmetics and medical dev ices. Talking of cosmetics, lexicographers helpfully tell us that these are ( usually chemical) preparations w hich are applied to some parts of the human body–especially the face– ostensibly to improve one’s appearance. T o that end, cosmetics are used to enhance or otherw ise alter the appearance and texture of one’s body (especially of the face, hair, nails, etc.) , ostensibly making it more attractiv e to ‘others.’ Hence the popular term ‘ makeup’ that implies the use of lipstick, perfume, cologne, mascara, eye shadow , foundation, blush, contour, skin cleanser, body lotion, deodorants, shampoos and conditioners, as w ell as hairstyling products such as gel, spray, etc. Cosmetics have been in use for thousands of years. Egyptian men and w omen used makeup to enhance their appearance. T hey reportedly “ w ere v ery fond of eyeliner and eye-shadow s in dark colors, including blue, red and black.” Ancient Egyptians used “ K ohl as a protectant of the eye, and to darken the edges of eyelids; castor oil as a protectiv e balm – and extracted red dye from fucus-algin, 0.01 per cent iodine, and some bromine mannite. But this dye resulted in serious illness,” w e are told. Ancient Sumerian men and w omen w ere possibly the first to inv ent and w ear lipstick about 5,000 years ago. They crushed gemstones and used them to decorate their faces, mainly on the lips and around the eyes. Skin creams made of beesw ax , oliv e oil and rose w ater w ere described by Romans as sources of makeup– while Vaseline and lanolin became popular in the nineteenth century Christian Era ( CE). Around the years 3000BC-to-1500BC, w omen in the ancient Indus (Riv er), V alley Civiliz ation applied red-tinted lipstick to their lips for face decoration. Lipsticks w ith shimmering effects w ere initially made using a pearlescent substance found in fish scales.. . ‘ Fish scales?’ you w onder: cosmetics made from scales of fishes’ integumentary system.. . ? Well; you haven’t heard half of it! According to various studies, some cosmetics are made from assorted inputs, including human breast milk ( to heal acne, eczema and burns, etc.) ; the foreskin of infants (helps w ith signs of aging); and oil from the emu or mink. Apparently, many day and night creams include natural fat of mink or emu w hich is added to some aftershaves, sunscreens and hair sprays as a conditioning agent. Also, the red pigment ‘ Carmine,’ w hich is added to lipsticks and some foods, is partly made from the cochineal beetle mostly found in South America, w hile ambergris – ‘a w ax y substance that originates as a secretion/ v omit from the intestines of the sperm w hale – is used as a base in manufacturing perfumes. T his is to say nothing of the fat of dead animals, w hich is used as an emollient component in the manufacture of eye shadow , lipstick and soap! T hen there is the bombshell of all bombshells in the cosmetics industry: dynamite. We are told that “the properties of porosity and cavity of ‘ diatomaceous earth’ – one of the components of dynamite – make it q uite a good abrasive material. It may be applied in the softest and most natural toothpastes, deodorants and pow ders for its ex foliating effect.. . ” So, as the inventor of dynamite, Sw edish Chemist Alfred Bernhard Nobel (18 33- 18 96 ) w ould have w anted, his ex plosiv e inv ention does indeed have peaceable uses – including in mining and the manufacture of cosmetics.. . Oh.. . for the grisly details on the w oes of some cosmetics, go to [< HYPERLINK “ http:/ / z opflex . com/post/26 3” http:/ / z opflex .com/post/2 63 > ; and also < http:/ / hitadviser.com/en/ raznoye/ 8_ shocking_facts_ about_cosmetics2? > ] . In earlier days, the lack of regulatory framew orks for the manufacture and use of cosmetics resulted in negativ e side-effects, including deformities, blindness and even death. In the 20th Century CE, use of the mascara ‘ L ash L ure’ resulted in blindness.. . [ See < HYPERLINK “ http:/ / w w w . aao.org/senior-ophthalmologists/ scope/ article/ lash-lure-” www.aao.org/senior- ophthalmologists/scope/ article/lash-lure-> ] . Today, cosmetics in T anz ania are largely regulated by T FDA (c.f. the Food and Drug Administrationof the US G ov ernment) and the T anzania Bureau of Standards (T BS). . . Cheers! israellyimo@ gmail.com