…for hunting blocks, after TAWA fine-tunes the system ONLINE auction of hunting blocks is scheduled to begin anytime from this month after completion of the Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) electronic sale system. The authority announced in a statement yesterday that it would electronically auction 81 blocks which were returned to the government over the past five years. These are part of all 159 hunting blocks which the government handed over to hunting companies in 2013. The companies cited some reasons behind their decision to surrender the blocks to the government, including difficulty in doing business and livestock encroachment. TAWA issued the statement in Dar es Salaam when commemorating the World Wildlife Day which is marked on every 3rd March. “We are glad that we have finalised preparation of the electronic auction system and we expect to auction those blocks in March or April,” TAWA’s Tourism and Business Services Deputy Commissioner Imani Nkuwi stated in Dar es Salaam. The system now only awaits an approval from the committee formed by the government to assess the system whose preparation took about six months. The authority’s Commissioner, Dr James Wakibara, commended the government for coming up with the idea of introducing the electronic auction, saying it would avoid nepotism and complaints from companies bidding for the blocks. Dr Wakibara further noted that the system would address corruption and increase transparency during auction. When celebrating the World Wildlife Day, the TAWA was also cheering achievements attained in fighting poaching in the country, with Dr Wakibara acknowledging a downward trend of poaching incidents. “For instance, over the past six months, we haven’t seen an elephant killed in Selous game reserve…this shows that wildlife conservation is being undertaken well in the country,” he remarked. In the wake of effective control of poaching, the government has been praised by members of the international community, he said. Dr Wakibara attributed the decline in poaching to the new technique s of fighting poachers whereby now the government destroys their networks rather than pursuing individuals. Apart from that, citizens were giving cooperation to the authority by offering information that helped in netting the poachers. “In recent years we have been getting a lot of information which leads to the arrest of poachers,” he said. Pending issuance of a report on a wild animals census which was conducted recently, Dr Wakibara expressed optimism that the number of wild animals, particularly elephants, had increased.