THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, has drummed support for efforts to unlock rich, untapped resources in Lindi Region to boost growth and development of the region. He said in Lindi Region yesterday that the region was leading in the country in terms of natural and cultural resources which provide lucrative opportunities for business and investments to boost growth and development in the region. “This is the leading region with many investment opportunities, known and many other still unexplored,” he said at the opening of a business and investment forum organised by Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) and Regional Commissioner’s Office to promote business and investment opportunities in Lindi Region to domestic and foreign investors TSN has already organised business and investment forums in Arusha, Tanga, Zanzibar, Geita, Simiyu, Tabora and Shinyanga regions. Dr Mwakyembe likened Lindi Region with a giant that is sleeping on highly treasured wealth in terms of unexplored potential in agriculture, fisheries, tourism and mining sectors. “A TSN journalist told me yesterday (Monday) that Lindi is a sleeping giant. I told him it is not only a sleeping giant but one incubating highly treasured wealth. You can’t wake it up without following proper procedures,” he said. He said TSN organised business forums were proper ways to unlock investment potential of regions and promote opportunities in and out of the country. “TSN forums are one of ways to awaken the giants, to identify the treasure we have and to showcase to the world,” he said. He called for Lindi regional leaders and development stakeholders to take advantage of TSN facilities such as newspapers and digital and social media platforms to promote their business and investment opportunities in and outside the country. “This is an opportunity for Lindi Region people to tell the world about opportunities they have,” he said. He appealed to Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials to make use of the forum to get closer to businesses and educate Tanzanians about their activities. TRA work is to help, and not to kill businesses. They should use these forums to provide more information and education to taxpayers, he further remarked. He said an increase in the number of investors, which is the objective of the forum, meant also an increase in the number of taxpayers and tax revenue collection. The minister said the forums were also held in accordance with the government agenda of industrialisation which is expected to boost the nation to middleincome economy by 2025. “These forums go hand in hand with the government agenda to build an industrial economy which will take Tanzania to a middle-income economy by 2025,” he remarked. The TSN Acting Managing Editor, Ms Tuma Abdallah, said earlier that Lindi Forum was the ninth to be organised by TSN after successful ones held in Arusha, Zanzibar, Tanga, Mwanza, Geita, Simiyu, Shinyanga and Tabora regions. She said the forums had helped government and regional leaders meet with different development stakeholders to deliberate on business and investment opportunities in their regions. The forums have helped to unlock business and investment potential of the regions and experience from the eight forums showed the regions had received more domestic and foreign investors. Lindi Region has now been opened to the world through our platforms. It should be known to many people in and out of the country,” she said. She, however noted that TSN had sent an advance team of journalists to all districts to write about available business and investment opportunities. Ms Abdallah said Lindi Region’s news about investment opportunities that were published in TSN publications for East Africa, would be read in the entire East African region. “Lindi is so lucky. Their special supplement was published yesterday in our East African publications,” she said. “This is your opportunity to explain challenges that hinder investments in the region; to look out at what is needed to be done to help you to utilise the opportunities. Lindi’s development will be brought about by Lindi people,” she said. The Lindi Regional Commissioner Godfrey Zambi said with huge arable land and adequate rainfall, the region was ideal for cultivation of cash crops such as cashew, sesame and sunflowers and food crops such as maize, sorghum and peas. He said the region had lucrative opportunities for investments in processing plants for cashew nuts and sesame, two leading major cash crops in the region. “We produce between 50 and 80 million kilogrammes of cashew nuts annually but we don’t have a big processing plant. We export the crop abroad in raw form,” he said. He added that there were also lucrative investment opportunities for processing plants for sunflowers, an emerging cash crop with enormous potential for development. Other lucrative opportunities for investments were in horticultural production of fruits and vegetable and processing plants for fruit juice, he said. Mr Zambi said all districts in the region had set aside land for investments and they have vowed there should be no problems in issuing land to investors. The region also boasts vast stretches of pristine white sand beaches in Kilwa and Lindi districts that provide opportunities for construction of tourist hotels and lodges, he said. Mtwara RC said he had come to learn more about promotion of investment opportunities and improve on what Lindi Region would do. He said as leaders were duty bound to promote business and investment opportunities and facilitate domestic and foreign investors as they venture to begin operations in the country. He said as leaders they must know and provide answers to baffling questions on how long it takes for an investor to get necessary permits before he or she begins operations. “We are responsible for providing answers to questions such as when investors will get necessary permits,” he remarked. He said as leaders they must deal with the problem of excessive bureaucracy in government offices which is a major source of frustration to investors. Lindi Business forum has drawn government and regional leaders, representatives of government institutions dealing with investments as well as members of the business community. It began on Monday with exhibitions by stakeholders in different economic activities in Lindi Region.