SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems said he would love to face Moroccan giants Wydad Casablanca in the CAF Champions League’s quarter final fixture. The Msimbazi Street giants kick start their CAF CL last eight assignment by hosting TP Mazembe at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on April 5, while the return leg is scheduled on April 12 in DR Congo. Simba claimed a spot in the competition’s quarter finals after attaining 9 points obtained from three home game victories whereas Egypt’s Al Ahly topped group D pack with 10 points. According to the available statistics, TP Mazembe is the only team that has scored the biggest number of goals. Netting 13 in the concluded group stage of the continental level showpiece while conceding only 4 goals in the whole process. On the other hand, Simba have scored six goals and conceded 13 goals, a situation that points a finger to the team’s defending system, especially in the away venues. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday through radio interview, Aussems admitted that all teams which have made it into the quarter finals are great in the continent, but said if he had to choose which team to face, then Wydad Casablanca could be his choice. “For me, Wydad Casablanca is a bit simpler than other teams in the last eight, but because the draw has already been done, we have no other option apart from facing them (Mazembe),” he said. However, the Belgian tactician said TP Mazembe were much better in the past three years saying the cycle of players they have is now fading away. “This could be an advantage for us to get the better of them and we won the most difficult match against AS Vita meaning that we have confidence to play against any team that comes on our way,” Aussems said. He added that the club’s initial objective was to reach into CAF CL group stages saying stepping into the quarter finals means they have surpassed their target which is very important and they are eager to make a new surprise. “Everyone knows that TP Mazembe is a big club in Africa but we will play our part since we have nothing to lose,” he said. However, Aussems conceded that his side should change the way they approach away games in this competition which has seen them failing to score in all three away games they played in group stages. TP Mazembe are second on the table of the DR Congo Premier League with 58 points from 23 matches, four points behind leaders AS Vita at 62 points after the same number of matches. Meanwhile, there have been mixed reactions in the streets concerning the match pitting Simba and TP Mazembe with most of them saying Simba have advantage to sail into the semifinals. “Football is unpredictable. You need to expect miracles sometimes. Simba have transformed a lot. I am sure they can defeat TP Mazembe,” said Elia Thobias, a resident of Dar es Salaam.