ZANZIBAR President Ali Mohamed Shein has urged teachers in the country to desist from applying traditional methods of teaching, but instead become innovative and enrol in modern courses to upgrade themselves. He said teachers should be upto- date in teaching including applying new methods to overcome challenges, for the government banks on them for reforms in the education system for quality education. “You have to change. Be innovative and acquire new skills for quality education,” pointed out Dr Shein yesterday, while inaugurating new buildings for Fuoni-Pangawe Primary School in Unguja West B District. He said that education has been evolving particularly with the teaching methods, and therefore, requires teachers to improve also in their skills by adopting modern technologies for their students to excel in their studies. At the site, about 5bn/- was spent on the institution’s construction with funds coming from the Chinese government. Thanking the country for the alms, he hailed them for additionally funding two other schools in the Island naming them as Kijichi and Urafiki in Mwanakwerekwe area. “Commitment, hard work and patriotism are prerequisites in education development,” added Dr Shein, saying the Schools’ construction was necessary to keep pace with the increasing number of students in the district, that was facing congestion of about 131 students on average in a classroom. The President hinted that more schools will be built in the area, citing China Qindao Construction (CNQC) Company that was managing such projects in the Island. Dr Shein said development in education in the Isles was based on firm foundation that was earlier laid by the Island’s first President, the late Abeid Amani Karume. On her side, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training, Ms Riziki Pembe Juma said that development in education stimulated the number of schools to increase in the area based on Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) manifesto. Expounding, Dr Idrissa Muslim Hija, the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry said that China funded the project with more than 5bn/-, where Zanzibar government on its side waived taxes on their construction materials and provided electricity and water.