WINNERS of the Dar es Salaam Inter-Secondary Schools Three-a-side basketball competition will be known today after the playoffs involving 14 boys and four girls’ teams. The week-long competition started on February 22nd this year at the Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (JMK) Youth Park in Dar es Salaam. The competition jointly organised by JMK Youth Park and Basketball Dar es Salaam (BD) under the auspices of Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF), brought together girls and boys teams from various schools in the city. BD Director of School and Children Misoji Mihayo, told the ‘Daily News’ in the city yesterday that all necessary preparations for the playoffs were complete. He called on fans to turn up in big numbers to enjoy the playoffs billed to be thrilling. “The competition went well from the start. We had good response from schools in which four girls teams sailed to the playoff and 14 boys teams also in the battle, will all play tomorrow (today) before unveiling the champions in each category,” he said. Teams in girls’ playoffs category are Juhudi, Mtakuja, Gerezani and Makongo Secondary School. According to Mihayo, boys’ teams include Dar Secondary, Kibasila, Mtakuja, Gerezani, Miburani, Benjamin Mkapa, Mnazi Mmoja, Juhudi, Rosehill, Lord Baden, Makongo and Jitegemee Secondary. “The playoff will be played on a knockout basis; at each game loser will go out and winners advanced to letter stage until remaining two head to final playoff and get competition winners,” he said. Mihayo said that winners will be awarded trophies and medals. At least 28 boys’ teams entered into the competition, while only seven girls’ teams started the battle a week ago. Mihayo said that the competition aimed among others, to promote the three-a-side basketball, which is still a new format in the country. He said that the 3x3 basketball game has been given priority in recent years by International Basketball Federation (FIBA), so it is their turn to promote it in Tanzania. He thanked all schools for their good cooperation that resulted to a wonderful event.