TO ensure sustainability of wildlife conservation in Tanzania, communities surrounding Game and National Parks should play a major role in protecting the animals, which in turn will improve their livelihoods as a result of tapping the areas for related activities in ecotourism. That was said in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Tanzania Natural Resources Forum (TNRF) Board Chairperson, Dr Suma Kaare, while in a wildlife working group to meet Tanzania wildlife Conservation practitioners, adding that: “ There should be collaborative efforts to ensure that the wildlife conservation agenda moves to the next level.” Tanzania has one of the highest levels of biodiversity and wildlife riches in the sub-Saharan African region, which hosts some 20 per cent of the species of bib mammals’ population found across its conservation areas, marine parks, among others. However, Dr Kaare pointed out that the meeting reflects on the prosperity of the wildlife conservation in Tanzania, by linking important aspects of the country’s conservations, and livelihood derived from them. ‘Since we have committed and dedicated our career on wildlife conservation, it is now the right time to communicate the value of this sector to Tanzanians and the globe as a whole. It is important for the communities (villages), which surround the wildlife reserves to be among key groups in conserving them,” she added. According to her, various conservation institutions have recognised the communities’ value and introduced community based approaches, which include Community Based Conservation and Community Conservation Services. She hinted that the initiatives require communication, cooperation and coordination among the stakeholders, which include wildlife authorities, Nongovernmental organisations, academic institutions and the media to help the communities become legally recognised and their livelihoods improved. On her side, the Wildlife Senior Officer, Ms Africo Simon said that the government in collaboration with various wildlife stakeholders has been implementing different strategies to reshape the future of wildlife sector in Tanzania. “Among our efforts is to educate communities and villagers surrounding wildlife reserves and establish community based conservation groups. We want to engage communities in order to be well informed on their importance of conserving our wildlife reserves,” she noted. The Senior Officer said that the meeting will come up with concrete recommendations to enhance the government’s contribution to policy and legal framework, for better and future of wildlife conservation and management for the benefit of the nation. The meeting was presided over by government officers, nongovernmental organisations, private and public institutions, donor community, academic institutions amongst others.