THE East African Court of Justice (EACJ) yesterday directed the government of Tanzania to rectify some of the contentious provisions enshrined in the Media Service Act, 2016. The regional court headquartered in Arusha ruled that the disputed Act was against the East African Community (EAC) Treaty. In a ruling delivered by Justice Charles Nyachae, EACJ First Instance Division recommended to the government of the United Republic of Tanzania to amend such ‘oppressive provisions’ with a view to bringing the disputed Act into compliance with the Treaty of establishing the East African Community (EAC). Delivering the judgment, Justice Nyachae ruled that the provisions, particularly sections 7(3)(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i) and (j), blatantly violated the Treaty governing the establishment of EAC. The Court also poked holes in sections 19, 20 and 21; sections 35, 26, 37, 38, 39 and 40 and sections 52, 53, 58 and 59 of the Act, which it said, clearly violated Articles 6(d) and 7(2) of the EAC Treaty. “The Court has found out that certain provisions of the impugned Media Services Act are in violation of the principles set out in Articles 6(d) and 7(2) of the EAC Treaty,” ruled Justice Nyachae. The Court further ordered the two parties to bear their own costs. In January 2017, the Media Council of Tanzania (MCT), Legal and Human Rights Centre (LHRC) and the Tanzania Human Rights Defenders Coalition (THRDC) filed their petition at the Arusha based Court arguing that Act contravened the EAC Treaty. They challenged the legal provision deeming it a threat to press freedom and freedom of expression and thereby constituting a violation of Tanzania’s obligation under the EAC Treaty that upholds and protects human and people’s rights and standards as specified under Articles 6(d) and 7(2) of the Treaty. Article 6 of the Treaty of the EAC notes that all partner states should adhere to good governance, including adherence to the principles of democracy, the rule of law, accountability, transparency, promotion and protection of human and people’s rights in accordance with the provisions of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights.