AS the construction of Terminal 3 of Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) is about to be completed, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered the Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA) to finalise procedures for its use once the contractor hands it over. The Prime Minister issued the order yesterday when he visited the site to inspect the construction progress. He said preparations for the use of the facility must be done to make start operating after being handed over by the contractor. Ninety five per cent of the construction work at Terminal 3 is completed, including arrival and departure lounges and 100 per cent of the work is expected to be completed in May 2019. Mr Majaliwa, who inspected the project yesterday, said he was pleased with the progress made so far. Expanding JNIA in Dar es Salaam is part of the government’s plans to transform Tanzania into a regional hub and boost the country’s tourism sector. The project was initially expected to be completed in 2015, but a construction schedule was delayed due to a shortage of funds. Mr Majaliwa also congratulated the contractor for the good work and Tanzanians who works at the project for their dedication in making sure the airport becomes operational. President John Magufuli ordered a probe into the new airport terminal project in February last year after project costs and the construction schedule were derailed. The new airport terminal is being constructed by a Dutch contractor, BAM Group, in two phases. Both phases of the contract were awarded before Dr Magufuli became President in November 2015 and the construction of phase two is still going on. “Why did government experts approve such huge costs? ... is this terminal really worth 560bn/-?” President Magufuli asked after inspecting the construction work in February last year. Phase two was due for completion in December 2017, but that date was extended due to delays in payments to the contractor. “The government will pay arrears to the contractor ... but the cost has to be reduced. We can’t pay for all this without value for money,” President Magufuli said in a statement. Terminal 2, which was opened in 1981, currently handles about 2.5 million passengers annually against its capacity of two million. When Terminal 3 project is completed, the three terminals at Tanzania’s busiest airport will be able to handle up to nine million passengers annually. Earlier, Chief Executive Officer of the Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads), Patrick Mfugale said they had already conducted a test of systems and equipment that the contractor expected to hand over the project on May 31, this year.