TANZANIA is set to start using high-tech computer programmes to count the number of elephants that are in the country. It is a modern technological method that takes between six months and a year, and is far more efficient than the one that has been applied so far. A Senior Research Officer with the Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI), Dr Edward Kohi, says the new technology uses a special automatic programme that notes and counts wildlife from the sky. He said that they had been using photos taken by cameras from planes to count elephants, a method that is tedious and takes a very long time before the results are obtained. Dr Kohi, who doubles as coordinator of wildlife census at the institute, said that pilot project for the modern counting will be done next month in collaboration with the Glasgow University of the UK at Tarangire National Park, the sixth largest national park in Tanzania that is located in Manyara Region. “Tarangire is a park with many elephants within a small area; with more than 3,500 within 2,850 square kilometres; so we have found that it is the right area for our trial that will lead us to use the modern technology in conserving wildlife,” said Dr Kohi. According to Dr Kohi, the Selou Reserve that measures 50,000 square kilometres leads in the number of elephants. It is estimated to have more than 15,000, followed by Serengeti National Park that has more than 6,000 in an area that measures 14,750 square kilometres. He noted that the trials would be done in series with three censuses of the big beasts, and would be done along with the old technology before the new one is applied. Dr Kohi said that initial trials had been done in counting hartebeests in Serengeti National Park and were successful by more than 90 per cent. Serengeti is famous for having more than 1.3 million hartebeests that migrate each year from Maasai Mara National Park in Kenya. Elaborating on the new technology, the senior researcher said that photos taken can differentiate clearly between elephants and other animals, later counting them and then producing results. He said that a wildlife census was last done and produced results in 2015, showing a decrease in the number of elephants by 50 per cent, their number by then being 50,894. The statistics showing a decrease in the number of elephants had its source in a census that was carried out in 2009 showing that there were 109,000 of them. He attributed the decrease of elephants to an increase in poaching activities that are carried out in different parts of the country. However, he said poaching was now highly controlled and that had been noted due to the fact that it was rare to find elephant carcasses in areas where their research was conducted.