THE government through its Chemist Laboratory Authority (GCLA) looks forward to canceling all unnecessary charges for importing, transporting and inspecting industrial and consumer chemicals purposely to improve business environment. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu said all charges would be paid in local currency. She made the remarks during a meeting with various stakeholders dealing with industrial and consumer chemicals to discuss the best ways of improving the chemical business environment. “The aim of the government and its authorities is to set a favourable environment for businesspeople to do business and pay tax without problems,” she said. She said her office would discuss with the authorities regulating chemicals, including Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) as well as GCLA to omit bureaucracies in issuing the permit for doing business. Moreover, the minister said she would propose the amendment of the Industrial and Consumer Chemicals (Management) Act, 2003 to allow repackaging and unloading of transit chemicals or chemical wastes in the country. She said due to the Act, the government had been losing about 150bn/- revenue per year because the country was surrounded by eight land-locked countries and depended on Dar es Salaam Port for importing chemicals. “After amendment of the law we will identify special areas for repackaging of chemicals,” she said. According to the Act, no person is allowed to unload and repackage transit chemicals or chemical wastes in the country. At the same event Chief Government Chemist, Dr Fidelice Mafumiko, said demand for chemicals in the country was high, so there was a need for more investors in the area. According to him, 2018 statistics show that 3.2 million tonnes of sulphuric acid were imported into the country through the Indian Ocean, sodium cyanide was 11,203.99 tonnes and ammonium nitrogen was 72,402 tonnes.