THE Parliament’s Standing Committee on Industry, Trade and Investment yesterday left the Centre for Agricultural Mechanisation and Rural Technology (CAMARTEC) premises disappointed after they were unimpressed by operations at the state owned institution. Led by the chairperson, Mr Suleiman Sadick Murad, the committee expressed its dissatisfaction over the Arusha based center’s failure of living up to its billing as the country’s innovation hub. “All funding from the government need to be channeled towards productivity, however, you have fallen short of that for many years,” remarked Mr Murad when the committee toured the centre yesterday. The committee’s chairperson categorically took issue of the centre’s failure to appoint a new board of directors, eight months on. “How do you run the centre without the guidance of a board of directors,” queried Mr Murad. In the same vein, the chairperson of the parliamentary standing committee challenged the Industry, Trade and Investment Deputy Minister, Stella Manyanya who was also present during the tour, to allocate the centre with more resources to enable it to achieve its mission of undertaking professional research and development in Agricultural Mechanization and Rural Technologies for the provision of high quality technical services to clients in environmentally friendly manner. Sharing similar sentiments, a committee member, Ms Kiteto Koshuma (Special Seats-CCM), tasked the ministry to give the facility special attention it deserves for the benefit of farmers. “This centre hasn’t been given the attention it deserves, much to the misery of our farmers,” she said. Ms Koshuma wondered why there wasn’t much happening at the facility when the centre ought to be bustling with activities. On his part, Arusha urban MP, Mr Godbless Lema challenged the government to import industrial experts from Turkey and China in order to revive what he described as an ailing ‘facility’. “This centre should be run commercially as the country is yearning for an industrialised economy, therefore, bringing in experts is out of the question,” offered the legislator. In his rejoinder, CAMARTEC’s Acting Director General, Phythias Ntella assured the committee that they will address the aforementioned challenges and report back to the committee in Dodoma. Established by the act of parliament number 19, one of CAMARTEC’s objectives is to improve the quality of rural life through development, adaptation, adoption and dissemination of appropriate technologies in the fields of agricultural mechanisation, housing, rural transport, renewable energy and post-harvest. It was officially started in July 1982, as a merger of two separate institutions, which were known as Tanzania Agricultural Machinery Testing Unit (TAMTU) and Arusha Appropriate Technology Project (AATP).