TWENTY five Village Game Scouts (VGS) from Ikona Wildlife Management Area (WMA) have completed a special training that will enable them intensify antipoaching patrols in the WMA which is an integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem. The two-week training was a joint initiative of the Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS) and Pasiansi Wildlife Training Institute (PWTI) with support from the Germany Government through KfW Development Bank. The training which ended on Friday benefited 25 VGS who are local men and women responsible to protect the rich wildlife WMA covering 242.3 square kilometres. It involves intensive theory and practical sessions, according to the organisers. “We have learnt many useful things and we promise to do better,” the VGS said in part of their remarks made by one of them during a brief graduation ceremony held in Western Serengeti on Friday. Officer Commanding District (OCD) in Serengeti, SP Mathew Mgema urged the VGS to end poaching and other destructive acts in the WMA which borders Serengeti National Park and Ikorongo-Grumeti Game Reserves. “Conduct patrols day and night. We want to end poaching and grazing of livestock inside wildlife conservation areas,” the area police chief who presided over the event on behalf of Serengeti District Commissioner Nurdin Babu said. He warned the VGS against involvement in poaching, categorically stating that whoever dared do so would face legal measures. The training covered wildlife conservation laws, ethics, human rights and techniques they could apply when dealing with poachers. Besides the training, the VGS were also given working tools like uniforms and tents, with the FZS office in Serengeti predicting significant changes in protection of the WMA which generates up to 3 billion shillings revenue annually. Part of the WMA’s revenue is directed to community development, the priority being given to the provision of social services. “The aim of the training was to capacitate the VGS as part of enhancing conservation activities and we expect that poaching acts within the WMA area will decrease. In addition to the training we are today giving them working tools like uniforms, rain coats, bags and other items that will enable them to conduct patrols,” the FZS Community Conservation Manager in Serengeti, Mr Masegeri Tumbuya, said. “All these efforts are meant to protect Ikona WMA and the local communities must continue reaping the fruits of conservation,” Mr Tumbuya, who is familiar with conservation of the Serengeti ecosystem for several years, added. The VGS were also taught how to prevent wild animals like rampaging elephants from invading local communities to destroy farms, in order to reduce human/ wildlife conflicts that have been on the rise in Westerner Serengeti. Mr Tumbuya described Ikona WMA as an important wildlife corridor in Western Serengeti that needs to be conserved and protected for the current and future generations. Headquartered in Germany, FZS is an international organisation that supports conservation in Tanzania with sustainable conservation of the Serengeti ecosystem being one of its priority areas. The presence of FZS in Tanzania for more than 50 years now had greatly contributed to enabling the Serengeti ecology remain intact. It had also initiated a project aimed at transforming the lives of local communities along the Serengeti ecosystem. The initiative, dubbed Serengeti Ecosystem Development and Conservation Project, is expected to see establishment of land use plans and Community Conservation Banks (COCOBA) in many villages along the Serengeti ecosystem.