LAWYERS yesterday locked horns at the Court of Appeal on competence of an appeal lodged by Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) over payments of 205.8 million US dollars (over 470bn/-) as income tax and stamp duty by Russian Uranium Mining Company, JSC Atomredmetzoloto (ARMZ). While Advocate Fayaz Bhojani, for ARMZ, forcefully pushed for the appeal to be “struck out” for being incompetent for containing incomplete records, Counsel Salvatory Switi, for the TRA Commissioner General was of the contrary position and pressed for the dismissal of the company’s contention. Having hearing the submissions by the parties on preliminary point of objections raised by ARMZ on the appeals for capital gains tax of 196 million US dollars and stamp duty of 9.8 million US dollars, Justices Kipenka Mussa, Stella Mugasha and Shaban Lilla said they would deliver their ruling on a later date. Advancing reasons to support his position, Mr Bhojani, who was assisted by Advocate Gaudiousis Ishengoma, told the panel that the appeal by the TRA has been filed in contravention of Rules 96 (1) (k) and (2) of the Court of Appeal Rules. He submitted that the TRA, the appellants, have omitted to include in the records of appeal some essential and crucial documents, notably, the copy of submissions that are referred to in the judgment of the Tax Revenue Appeals Tribunal, the subject matter being appealed against. “We have a judgment referring to some pages of the submissions, which are not in the record of appeal. There are no such submissions attached to the records. There are also annexure, which were attacked to TRA submissions, but are not included in the record of appeal,” the advocate submitted. According to him, a party could not choose what documents litigated before the lower court should be included in the record of appeal, as all the parties into the dispute were bound to follow the Court of Appeal Rules. “ It will be very injustice on part of the respondent (ARMZ) for the appeal to proceed for hearing without the submissions. “We fail to understand why the appellant failed to include those submissions in the record of appeal. The court cannot turn a blind eye to this omission,” the seasoned lawyer submitted. However, Counsel for the TRA asked the appeals court, which is the highest temple of justice in the country, to overrule the objection raised by the respondent, because he believed the same was basically misconceived. Mr Switi told the justices that it was not true that the appellant had omitted to file the submissions been referred to in the impugned judgment of the appeals Tribunal. “What is incorporated in the records is electronic and not physical submissions filed by the parties,” he submitted. He argued that the annexure that were being referred by the respondent in his arguments are not evidence by judicial decisions, as there was no evidence that was adduced at that stage. It was his firm position that there was no any omission committed by the appellant. In the alternative, however, the counsel was of the views that in case the court finds any omission in such regard, the court could resort to the overriding objective principal of substantive attainment of justice to cure the defect by allowing the appellant to file the complete records. Sometimes towards the end of year 2010, ARMZ entered into a scheme arrangement to purchase shares from shareholders of Mantra Resources Limited, trading in the Australian Stock Exchange. Mantra Resources Limited has shares in Mantra Tanzania Limited. Later on in March 2012, ARMZ sold and transferred 13.19 percent of the shares in Mantra Resources Limited to Uranium One which is a company incorporated in Canada. Following these transactions, TRA raised and issued the ARMZ with an income tax liability claiming 196 million U S dollars. Such amount was 20 percent of the total shares-saleprice between the ARMZ and Mantra Resources Limited, payable in terms of Income Tax Act and one percent of the transaction valued at 9.8 million U S dollars being stamp duty allegedly chargeable in accordance with the Stamp Duty Act. J .S.C. Atomredmetzoloto resisted such payments and appealed to the Tax Revenue Appeals Board on grounds that it is a noncitizen company, has no presence in Tanzania and, hence, any decision by TRA was ultra vires and J.S.C. Atomredmetzoloto challenged the TRA jurisdiction in making such decision. In rebuttal, TRA alleged that though the transaction was carried outside the country, ARMZ had ultimate intention of acquiring interests in Mkuju River Project located in Ruvuma and acquisition and realization of shares in the project amounted at getting income within a source in Tanzania. Furthermore, TRA stated that since the share sale transaction between ARMZ and Mantra Resources Limited led to the acquisition of interest in the Mkuju River and resulted into the conveyance of the said project, ARMZ were liable to stamp duty or conveyance under the Stamp Duty Act. After hearing the parties in the matter, the Board allowed the appeal by ARMZ, concluding that the later was not liable to tax in Tanzania and that TRA had no jurisdiction to tax them. The TRA Commissioner General appealed to the Tribunal, but the appeal was dismissed for almost similar grounds.