NATIONAL Under-17 football team, Serengeti Boys jetted off for Istanbul, Turkey yesterday, to compete in the 12-team invitational tournament dubbed ‘UEFA Assist’. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, confirmed that the boys departed in the evening in time for the tournament set to kick off on Monday. Serengeti Boys will use Turkey event to sharpen up for the 2019 Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals to be staged in Dar es Salaam next month. The team was camping in Arusha for weeks, where they played a couple of training match winning 2-0 against the ‘Fountain Gate Academy’ in a match played at the Aga Khan grounds in Ngaramtoni. They returned in Dar es Salaam mid this week before their journey to Turkey yesterday. According to the organisers, the tournament is divided into three groups. Serengeti Boys has been placed in Group 1 alongside Guinea, Australia and hosts Turkey. Group 2 has Cameroon, Uganda, Morocco and Belarus, while Group 3 teams are Senegal, Nigeria, Angola and Montenegro. Serengeti Boys Coach, Oscar Mirambo, said the team has clearly shown that it will perform well in the UEFA event and that the boys will win accolades from the competition to make Tanzania proud. In the AFCON finals, hosts Serengeti Boys have been zoned in group A alongside Nigeria christened The Golden Eaglets, Angola and debutants Uganda in the preliminary round of the finals. Teams in group B are Guinea, Cameroon, Morocco and Senegal. The top four teams of the tournament will qualify for the 2019 FIFA Under-17 World Cup in Peru as the CAF representatives. Meanwhile, the Uganda Under-17 national football team also departed for Antalya, Turkey in the wee hours of yesterday. The Cubs, as they are popularly known, completed their ten-day residential training at the FUFA Technical Centre in Njeru ahead of the invitational tournament. The 23-man squad to play at the twelve-team invitational tournament in Turkey has been named. The tourney in Turkey is aimed at fine tuning the Cubs for the upcoming CAF U17 Championship that will be hosted by Tanzania in April.