CONSTRUCTION and rehabilitation of roads in Mpimbwe District by the Tanzania Rural and Urban Roads Agency (TARURA) have facilitated movement of people and businesses in the area. Mpimbwe District Council Chairman, Mr Magoro Serengeti said the opening of a number of road networks in the areas has also saved the life of many patients who were dying midway to referral centres. “Most of the roads here were inaccessible especially during the rainy season, but since TARURA started rehabilitation and opened up some road networks the situation has changed for the better,” he said. He said the rehabilitated road network has been an economic catalyst for his people saying before they could not take their produce to the market nor the dealers reach the areas due to bad shape of the roads by then. “But TARURA has upgraded almost all the roads which are passable throughout the year, thus you can see a beehive of business activities especially at Majimoto area which is a business centre,” he said. He used the occasion to call upon the resident to the good care of the rehabilitated road network which cost the government heavily so that they last long but also enjoy the value for money for the estimated period of time. Eng. Maneno Makongoro who is TARURA’s Mpimbwe Manager said they have decided to set stiff penalty for individuals conducting human activities that damage the road network. He named cattle herding along the roads, farming activities alongside and overloading as some of the activities that contribute to the damage of the roads. Eng Makongoro said together with the villages they have come up with a number of by-laws for the offenders conducting human activities in the road reserve. On budget allocation the Mpimbwe Council Manager said in 2018/19 their budget allocation was 440m/- before it was slashed by 14 per cent thus remained with over 222.1m/- which catered for four projects. Moreover, he said, though their own source they have 100m/-which are spent for the maintenance of the rehabilitated road networks in time of need to keep them passable throughout the year. Eng Makongoro said they have requested 1bn/- from the development budget allocation which if granted they will finish lined up rehabilitated roads as well as construction of a two-kilometre of tarmac road.