FORMER National Assembly Speaker Anne Makinda has encouraged women to have determination if they want to become leaders in organisations or political posts, saying leadership does not come from a dream. Ms Makinda said to increase the number of women in Parliament women needed empowerment to contest for constituencies in following elections. “Special-seats are basically aimed at building confidence in women. Thereafter, they should get out and contest...you must aim higher,” she stressed. She was speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a workshop organised by Oxfam Tanzania in collaboration with Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA) ahead of International Women’s Day today. The meeting focused on discussing ways of making women participate more in leadership ahead of civic elections this year and the general election next year. “Confidence building in women is paramount...you can even approach women individually and encourage them that they can after looking at their abilities,” she told TAWLA. TAWLA Executive Director Tike Mwambipile explained that the workshop involved women from different organisations and politicians. “We have decided to convene some of the successful women leaders so that we organise ourselves as women for the next elections considering that currently women account for only 6.7 per cent of elected MPs in Parliament,” she noted. She said the meeting would deliberate on strategies that would help women contest in the forthcoming elections. Tanzania Gender Network Programme (TGNP) Executive Director Lilian Liundi hailed a trend of increasing the number of women in the political leadership. “As the country we have gone a step ahead for women to take leadership positions...but we should brainstorm on how to improve the situation,” she noted. Hanang MP, Dr Mary Nagu, said leadership lied in women themselves to have determination and courage. “In election campaigns, women need to market their abilities and qualifications for them to be elected,” she said. On the other hand, she called for more education to fight against male dominance and for equal participation of women and men in bringing about social development in the country.