FROM now on, police officers will not be allowed to assume prosecution roles in criminal cases if in their localities there is an office or officials representing the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). DPP Biswalo Mganga issued a directive to unauthorised law enforcers recently, following an incident of illegitimate detention and prosecution of an innocent civilian in Tabora Region, Mr Mussa Adam Sadiki. “I don’t want to see any person taking the role of a prosecutor at a place where there is an office of public prosecution,” he said. According to him, his office was now putting every measure in place to ensure that there were representatives of his office in every region, in an effort to widen the base in the administration of justice. He also directed state attorneys representing his office to observe professionalism and shun any acts that are likely to deny justice to accused persons. In a recent case which is still under investigation, Mr Sadiki is said to have suffered at the hands of unethical law enforcers, compelling President John Magufuli to intercede, ordering relevant authorities to ensure justice and good governance principles were embraced. After he read an account in a local daily which quoted the Tabora resident, complaining that law enforcers had forfeited his properties and detained him illegally before charging him in court with murder, Dr Magufuli ordered the DPP to conduct an inquiry on the matter. Initial investigations, according to the DPP, revealed that the complainant was arrested on June 21, 2018, in Tabora and detained, the entry in the police detention register, indicating that Mr Sadiki was detained over burglary. But, added Mr Mganga, when he appeared before a Tabora court, he was charged with murder. The charge sheet was signed by a prosecutor from the police force. The DPP said that he had banned that officer to conduct prosecution on his behalf and instead continue with his duties as an investigator as investigations were ongoing. As investigations continue, the DPP added, already responsible authorities in the police force had taken initial disciplinary actions against all officials who were involved in the saga. He said that his office would not tolerate any person who was discharging one’s duties unprofessionally and promised to take stern disciplinary and legal actions against officials who colluded in detaining and charging the Tabora resident illegally. A recent Tanzania Human Rights Report by the Legal and Human Rights Centre (LHRC) in collaboration with the Zanzibar Legal Services Centre (ZLSC) shows that arbitrary arrests and illegal detentions are still persistent in the country’s police stations.