AS the country intensifies the provision of health services, Bugando Medical Centre (BMC) has announced it will start performing kidney transplant in the next five years. Speaking to the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ on Thursday, BMC Physician and Head of Nephrology Unit, Dr Said Kanenda, said performing kidney transplant was part of the strategies in store as the Zonal Hospital strove after extending services to patients with different kidney ailments. “We are experiencing a massive increase in the number of patients with kidney complications and in efforts to contain them we plan to introduce kidney transplant in the coming five years,” he said. Dr Kanenda gave the assurance as BMC joined the rest of the world to mark World Kidney Day with global reports showing an increase in kidney effects that include over 850 million people suffering from the disease and 2.4 million others dying each year on average. At BMC, the situation was almost the same as over 400 patients with different symptoms of kidney diseases report for medication every month with a substantial number of them arriving in a critical stage, making it difficult for their lives to be saved. As a result of the prevailing situation, BMC has procured 15 new haemodialysis machines from Germany to be installed in the next three weeks. Due to an increase in demand for dialysis services among the kidney patients, the health facility has now decided to increase services to 24 hours to cope with the number of patients coming from far and even from within Mwanza City. Dr Kanenda said the youth were increasingly becoming victims of the deadly disease, citing lack of physical exercises, rapid change of life and unhealthy eating styles as some of the leading factors. Other dangerous habits include many patients using herbal medicines and haphazard administration of counter steroids and inflammatory medicines without proper medical advice. Over 350 patients underwent free kidney check-up at BMC during the commemoration. Currently, Muhimbili National Hospital and Benjamin Mkapa Hospital are the two health facilities performing kidney transplants in the country.