Tanzania is making good progress in the implementation of Sustainable Development goals (SDGs), especially in education, health, industries, and creation of decent employments as well as environmental conservation, stakeholders have said. They were speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam during a  consultation workshop on SDGs Good Practices for Private sectors, for gathering best practices, success stories and lesson learned for the three years of goals implementation in Tanzania. The workshop was organised by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in collaboration with the Global Compact Network Tanzania (GCNT), the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE), among others. It was said that stakeholders were collecting the data on the success of the goals' implementation, ahead of the UN meeting, set to take place in July this year in New York. Tanzania is among the countries on  the list to submit a report on how far it has gone on SDGs implementation. Executive Director for Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Mr Godfrey Simbeye,  said that Tanzania had covered almost all 17 SDGs as  a result of creating  conducive investment environments. "Conducive environments enable us, private sector to invest in all areas and there are signs for the country to meet the global goals by 2030, as it is targeted. We have been investing in areas which have direct impacts to people around. For instance, it is well known that over 65 percentage of employment is in private sector. We have also been  investing in waste management in the name of prioritising people's health," he said. Commenting on the Civil Societies' contribution towards implementation of the goals, the Co-Convener of Tanzania Sustainable Development Platform, Mr Reynald Maeda,  said that, mostly, the societies have been doing the best in the fight for women and children’s  rights. Promoting equally education to female children and reproductive health services, as well as fighting against gender-based violence  are among the areas that have been prioritised by civil societies. "In other words, the civil societies have been doing best in the implementation of the goal number three, which is for good health and well-being, number four, which is ensuring inclusive and quality education for all as well as number five, which is for achieving gender equality and empowering all women and girls," he said. GCNT Executive Director, Mr Simon Shayo, commented that Tanzania will achieve the goals in the targeted time frame given the fact that private sector and civil societies have huge contributions as they are well packaged in terms of capital and skills. He reiterated that, their enormous contribution was due to the fact that they usually invest in activities which have direct communications and benefits to people around, such as job creation, education, health and other social services access in communities. "Achieving the global goals includes among others, availability of all social services to people equally, while the nation's economy keeps on growing. Tanzania is on good progress and through these gathering, we are going to see the country's advancement percentage-wise," he said. 