CHRISTIANS all over the world came together to observe Ash Wednesday this week and begin their journey into Lent and the solemnity that comes with it. However as many Christians who are committed and faithful to truly serving, there are those who are out for their bellies. Enter Pastor Alph Lukau of Alleluia Ministries in Johannesburg, South Africa. This so called pastor performed a miracle of “resurrecting a dead man” under the guise of being the most supreme healer on earth. Have you ever heard of such nonsense? Pastor Lukau, alias Resurrection Pastor, was seen on a video clip that went viral as having resurrected a man in a coffin. The video first made waves on social media before main stream media caught onto it and went with it exposing the idiocy that it is. This unfortunate video was also seen near and far even making its way to the popular American TV late night show, The Daily Show, with Trevor Noah. To be honest, I was not happy that it went internationally viral like that. Somethings are just best kept to ourselves just like this nonsense. After the video made its rounds, another man claiming to be a pastor, Paseka “Mboro” Motsoeneng of Incredible Happenings church, issued a media statement condemning Resurrection Pastor for his antics claiming that there were all aimed at getting media attention. Mboro said that he would confront Lukau for “bringing Christianity into disrepute”, but he was not allowed to enter the church venue when he went there. Mboro was seen kneeling, beside his Audi Ai luxury car surrounded by his people, “praying” and begging God to forgive Resurrection Pastor for what he called, shaming the Christian faith. You don’t say? The optics for this public prayer were aimed at generating attention and boy, did it ever. He also got his 7 minutes of fame under the guise of the Christian faith. The South African Funeral Practitioners’ Association (Safpa) also voiced their displeasure at “such an antic for the sake of quick fame and cameras”. You don’t say. Perhaps they were mad that the Resurrection Pastor used the coffin like that? I believed someone asked if the so called dead man had a death certificate. On his part, Resurrection Pastor said that he was misunderstood and that he will deliver his side of the story in due time but that he was clear of any wrongdoing. Right, Sir such nonsense. So between the Alleluia Ministries and the Incredible Happenings Church they have taken time out to play around with Christianity as they see fit, making their money and seeking fame and notoriety at will. My Nigerian friends would say, “may thunder scatter their brains” but it is not my place to make judge. However, the more I hear about these guys the more I’m convinced that there is a special place in hell for those who mock people’s faith like this. That and that Christians are a peaceful lot. Imagine if it was our friends who pray facing Qibla. We would still have not been burning from that fire. Twitter: @ambylusekelo