A LAND use plan in Shinyanga Region has brought about an increase in crop yield and reduce land disputes experienced in the past among farmers and pastoralists and even among family members. A recent survey conducted by ‘Daily News’ in Nyida Village, Shinyanga District, shows villagers were happy with improved land management after the issuance of certificates of the customary right of occupancy (CCRO). Commenting on this development, Nyida Village Chairman Evalist Kabuga said the village was enjoying peace as out of 2,064 villagers, 751 had their land surveyed with 208 issued with CCROs. “We thank the government and development partners for implementing this programme in our village. Now we're free of land disputes and conflicts experienced before between farmers and pastoralists or among family members,” he said. Before embarking on the plan, the chairman said he would receive at least five disputes in a year with women being more victims of the circumstances particularly single mothers and widows. Village community mobilisation officer Mbabala Shija appealed to the local government authorities to cooperate more with development stakeholders, commending the Rural Urban Development Initiative (RUDI) supported by Oxfam Tanzania for sensitising villagers on land use plan. RUDI Project Manager responsible for Strengthening, Governance and Innovation in Rice Value Chain Stephen Mpangala said the land use plan had been successful in five villages of Shinyanga District, mentioning them as Welezo, Nsalala, Nduguti, Ihalo and Nyida. “The villages we are working in are increasingly becoming aware of the importance of CCROs to their economic and social wellbeing and we are working hard to reach more villagers,” said Mr Mpangala. Apart from Shinyanga District, RUDI was also successfully implementing the land use plan in Maswa District in Simiyu Region and Mbogwe District in Geita Region. A cost sharing arrangement between the villages implementing the land use plan and Shinyanga District Council has also been commended with beneficiaries being asked to pay only 15,000/- per acre instead of a 300,000/- normal rate charged on each surveyed acre. Nyida Village Livestock Field Officer Baudi Kahima and a villager, Ms Naomi Paul, said more initiatives should be set up to ensure more land was surveyed and CCROs issued for sustainable peace maintenance in the district. However, Shinyanga Ditrict Urban and Rural Planning Officer Deliquine Lyimo said lack of funds slowed the progress of the land use plan, so there was a need to do something about it.