MEMBERS of the Parliament Standing Committee on Industry, Trade and Investment yesterday called for a merger of three technological institutions. The legislators who were on a tour of the Tanzania Engineering and Manufacturing Design Organisation (TEMDO) have advised the government to merge the Arusha-based facility, the Centre for Agricultural Mechanisation and Rural Technology (CAMARTEC) and the Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) to avoid duplication of their activities. The MPs argued that the three institutions were performing the same functions in the development of industries in Tanzania. “Why don’t we join the three institutions, because they are basically doing the same duties,” queried Mr Musa Ntimizi who is also the MP for Tabora constituency. The MP warned that the three institutions will still be competing for government subsidies if they are not merged. Mr Ntimizi challenged the government to allocate more funds for the institutions which he said were doing an exemplary job in complementing Tanzania’s industrialisation drive. On his part, the committee’s Chairperson, Mr Suleiman Sadick Murad commended TEMDO for installing state-ofthe- art machinery from China at a cost of 614m/-. Mr Murad who doubles as the MP for Mvomero underscored the importance of TEMDO staff to acquaint themselves with the modern equipment. “You’ll be dealt a huge blow if the Chinese leave the country when you have not mastered the usage of these equipment,” he said. Some of the equipment procured by the Arusha based institution include Top Level Metal Horizontal Flat Bend, CNC Lathe Machine, Horizontal and Vertical Section bending rolls and guides. Summing up the committee’s tour, Industry, Trade and Investment Deputy Minister Stella Manyanya said the government was committed to sufficiently fund technological institutions in the country with a view of spearheading the industrialisation agenda. Established through the Parliament Act number 23 of 1980 which became operational in July 1982, TEMDO’s mission is to promote design, development, manufacture and application of demand driven technologies (machinery and equipment) and to provide technical support services in mechanical engineering and related fields to the industrial sector.