THE national athletic team to represent the country into the World Cross Country championship in Denmark has expressed high hopes of returning with medals. Organised by the International Athletic Associations Federation (IAAF) the 2019 World Cross Country Championships will take place in Aarhus City of Denmark on March 30th, as the Tanzanian athletes ready to leave by the Royal Dutch Airline (KLM) tonight. They left Arusha yesterday and will be in Dar es Salaam for a few hours to meet with other officials then fly from JNIA to Denmark after receiving the National Flag from the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe in Dar es Salaam. The team, according to the Wilhelm Gidabuday, the Secretary General of Athletics Association of Tanzania (RT), comprises of 20 people, among them 16 sportsmen and women as well as 4 officials. With nine female athletes in the entourage, the country is fielding more lady runners than their male counterparts. Hamad Ndee leads the team, accompanied by Meta Petro Bare, the head coach, Madai Rajab, the Assistant Coach and Mercelina Ngwandu who will be the team matron. The athletes have camped and trained in Arusha for several weeks prior to their departure. The Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority sponsors the National Athletics team in collaboration with Multi-Choice Tanzania, the vendor behind DSTV. The female athletes in the national team are Cecilia Ginoka Panga, Maryselina Issa Mbua and Magdalena Crispin Shauri from the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF), Amina Mohammed Mgoo and Angelina Daniel Tsere from the National Service (JKT). Others are Natalia Elisante Sulle and Failuna Abdi Matanga from Talent Club, Aisha Lubuna Maderani, and Anastasia Dolongo Ngombengeni from the Maranatha sporting team. The male runners include Emmanual Giniki, Faraja Damas and Joseph Panga from the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF), Yohana Elisante and Marco Sylvester Monko from the National Service (JKT), Gabriel Gerald Geai from Talent; Francis Damas Damiano from the Rift Valley team.