THE leadership crisis which has been brewing within the Civic United Front (CUF) over the past three years has come to an end as the High Court yesterday confirmed Prof Ibrahim Lipumba as the legitimate Chairman while the former Secretary General of the party Maalim Seif Sharrif Hamad decamped to ACT-Wazalendo. In its ruling yesterday, the High Court resolved the controversy on the leadership crisis after refusing to nullify the letter by Registrar of Political Parties which recognised Prof Lipumba as legitimate Chairman of the opposition party. Judge Benhajj Masoud ruled against the party’s Registered Board of Trustees, after dismissing the application backed by Mr Hamad.  He pointed out that the former Secretary General had not been mandated to initiate the case. Shortly after the landmark ruling, Mr Hamad backed with some leaders from his faction, convened a news conference in Dar es Salaam and announced that they were decamping to ACT-Wazalendo with immediate effect. “I have discussed with my fellow leaders and decided that we should seek another platform to continue with our political struggle,” Mr Hamad, who unsuccessfully contested the  presidency of Zanzibar through CUF since 1995, told a packed news conference. Just last weekend, Prof Lipumba appointed the former MP for Gando constituency in Zanzibar, Mr Khalifa Suleimani Khalifa, the new Secretary General after a General Meeting of the party. It is now apparent that the crisis which entangled the party with one faction backing Prof Lipumba and another on Mr Maalim has come to an end. The new development puts MPs who were supporting Mr Hamad’s faction at a cross-roads. It is not known whether they will pledge allegiance to Prof Lipumba or defect with Mr Hamad. Delivering the judgment, Judge Masoud said that Mr Hamad had sworn an affidavit as the Secretary General and accounting officer of CUF, but there was nowhere in the documents indicating that he had been authorised by the Board to take such action. He explained further that the respondents in the matter had countered the affidavit by Mr Hamad, going  further  by attaching documents containing names of persons believed to be members of the Board of Registered Trustees recognised by Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA). In his response to the counter affidavit, the judge noted, Mr Hamad could not indicate whether he was admitting or otherwise such list of names. Judge Masoud further ruled that the decision by the Registrar of Political Parties, to issue the letter in recognition of Prof Lipumba was legally justified. He ruled that as guardians of political parties, the decision by the Registrar was within his powers provided for under the Political Parties Act. Under the circumstances, the judge found nowhere to fault the decision of the Registrar of Political Parties. In the case, the respondents in the matter were Registrar of Political Parties, who recognizes Prof Lipumba as lawful CUF Chairman and the Attorney General. The rest were Prof Lipumba, who was being sued jointly with 10 others, including the party's Deputy Secretary General, Ms Magdalena Sakaya. The rest were Maftah Nachuma, Abdul Kambaya, Masudi Mhina, Thomas Malima, Ashura Mustafa, Mr Kapasha Kapasha, Mr Musa Kombo, Mr Habibu Mnyaa and Mr Haroub Shamis. In the application, the plaintiff, the Registered Trustees of the CUF which is allied Mr Hamad, was seeking for leave to apply for orders of certiorari to quash the decision of the Registrar of Political Parties to recognize Prof Lipumba as lawful CUF Chairman.