ACCESS to quality healthcare at close proximity continues to receive new impetus with the construction of 67 new district hospitals countrywide during the current financial year, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, revealed yesterday. Construction of the health facilities is meant to reduce sufferings and long distances, mostly covered by rural residents, in accessing health services which require sophisticated treatment such as surgeries, he stated. The premier pledged further that the fifth phase government was committed to construct more district hospitals and health centres in the next fiscal year as well as renovating existing health facilities across the country. Mr Majaliwa made the remarks here yesterday during an occasion to launch Kolomije Health Centre in Misungwi District, Mwanza Region, which was constructed at the cost of over 500m/- in order to take health services closer to people in the area. “The plan is to have quality healthcare closer to the people so that they don’t have to travel long distances to access the services in distant facilities,” he said, adding: “A total of 1.5bn/- has been allocated by the government for renovation of Misungwi District Hospital. More health centres are set for construction in Misungwi and other areas in the country,” Mr Majaliwa told residents who braced the scorching sun to attend the event. The PM further directed local government authorities across the country to mobilise funds for construction of dispensaries for which the central government will provide medical supplies and health staff. “There are over 16,000 villages countrywide and the government cannot build dispensaries in all these areas; local authorities should ensure they erect the required structures which as a matter of fact require just a small area for minor treatments,” he stated. The premier pointed to the determination by the government to improve health services, to which end, among other initiatives, it increased the budget for drugs and medical supplies from just 32bn/- in the year 2016 to 269bn/- in the current financial year. He informed the Kolomije residents that Misungwi District Hospital alone receives 187m/- for the medical supplies while Kolomije is allocated 6m/- every month. Apart from health, Mr Majaliwa assured the residents that the government would continue to improve other social services such as education and water supply. Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, told the National Assembly last year that plans were to construct 208 health centres countrywide. In his contribution to the ministry’s budget estimates for the current year, Dr Ndugulile informed lawmakers that the government had also allocated funds to renovate 67 district hospitals and six regional referral hospitals. Records show that a total of 77 district hospitals were built since the country gained independence in 1961, in addition to 115 health centres.