THE day before the day before yesterday (guess which day it was), I decided to peep into my memory bank, to see if there was something in there that I could retrieve and use to bore you a bit. I have recalled a friend and village mate whose name has vanished, but on whom I propose we paste the temporary name Tony. At any rate, if you insist on storing every bit of information in your memory bank, including the smile of a cynical fellow who accidentally (not deliberately) stepped on you in a Mbagala-bound bus the other day, it would burst due to being overloaded. The person in question, who probably went to Timbuktu to search for gold, got none and committed suicide, is nonetheless God’s creature I would be committing, not a mistake, but a sin to entirely forget about. He was one class ahead of me in a boarding primary school in the 60s. It was located not too far from the shores of a certain lake, whose name I am mischievously pretending to forget, because, several years ago, it swallowed a relative of mine who paid a dear price for illegal fishing. His canoe had become fed up of staying above the water, or was probably fed up of its passenger to whom it gave free rides. It pretended that the wind blowing against it was too strong to resist, overturned, and my relative ended up paying an involuntary visit “downstairs”. The school was literally planted in the middle of a jungle, about 15 kilometres from a place that pretended to be a town, but which was in reality a second-class township. For us, though, the occasional visits to the pretentious town were exciting; a welcome break from monkeys, snakes and geckos that were the other non-human God’s creatures that gave us company. During holidays in our village after he had completed Standard Seven, I accompanied Tony to town to check on his examination results. We were passengers in a bus which was a sort of half-caste (chotara). It was once a lorry that clever local mechanics who were neargeniuses had re-created. During the journey, he boasted that we would be checking his results as a mere formality, because his passing of the exams was by 100 per cent a guarantee, and zero per cent a probability. He was pronouncing the heroic academic bravado so loudly that it attracted the attention of many other people in the bus. They included the driver, who remarked that since Tony had automatically passed, he congratulated him, saying he was lucky because he would become a medical doctor, a pilot or engineer, and not end up as a bus driver like him! The remarks literally made Tony’s head swell with pride. He whispered onto my ear that the beginning of a gigantic revolution in his life had just began! He also speculated that his family would organise a congratulatory party for him on a scale that was much grander than the ones that had been organised for local chiefs! When we subsequently discovered that Tony had failed the exams disastrously, he seemed as surprised and shocked as a soccer fan would be if Manzese Kwa Mfuga Mbwa Maestros FC were to beat Barcelona 3-0 in a soccer match! As we walked towards the bus station for the trip back to the village, I restrained myself from making any comment about the exam results. Close to the station, he diverted to a roadside, lay on his back, closed his eyes and faced heavenwards. He closed his eyes, lay on his back and faced heavenwards. I guessed that he was probably praying to God to alter the exam results, but dismissed the guesswork as utter nonsense, because that would mean that the current results would be withdrawn (how?) and printouts of new ones from heaven (how?) would be released and distributed ! I momentarily toyed with the idea of the two of us going to a nearby church to pray to God to stabilise Tony to psychologically come to terms with the academic set-back. I would of course request God to enable me to pass the exams when my time came, and not fail like my friend! I dismissed the Church retreat, though, suspecting that my friend might penetrate into my mind and discover the prayers. We proceeded to the bus station and took our seats for the return trip to the village. The bus driver came over to Tony and congratulated him for passing the exams before the trip started. My friend was then mobbed by passengers who did the same. He wouldn’t have the courage to make a clarification and so wouldn’t I! By the time the truth emerged and spread, Tony had vanished from the village and was never seen or heard about by anyone thereafter, anywhere. wilson.kaigarula@guardian.co.tz