THE Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) in Kilimanjaro Region has managed to save over 2m/- after unearthing a syndicate where one of its customers was colluding with a private electric contractor to fleece it. Revealing the graft in Moshi recently, the Tanesco Kilimanjaro Revenue Protection, Engineer Mussa Ngombola, told reporters that the company (name withheld) was clandestinely collaborating with the individual to cheat in services that they discovered following a special operation they launched with their staff utility’s officials. “We were informed of the cheating by a reliable source that the client who resides at Kilima Hewa, Maili Sita area, within Hai District was cheating especially in his application processes, and when our officials including the security unit made a follow up, it was found that the client had cheated,” he pointed out. In elaboration, Eng Ngombola named the suspect as Festo Mtenga, adding that he had applied for electricity service and followed all the procedures. “The client paid a total of 638,472.39/- as per the technical drawings and the house wiring service processes which were done by the private contractor, whose name is withheld due to the ongoing investigations, and he was served with the power after paying also other stipulated charges,” he said. The area Revenue Protection Engineer said that after providing Mr Mtenga with the electricity meter, he decided to uninstall the meter from the house he had first applied for and transferred it to another building that was bigger than the first one. “Our investigations showed that the house he moved the meter to, was bigger than the first one we registered to avoid extra costs and charges. When we went to investigate the cheating, we found out that three more electric posts were added to access the new house and to make it worse; he used Ex Site posts (used posts.) “During the follow up it was also found that the costs of supplying electricity to the house where the electricity meter was transferred was supposed to cost the client 3,120,847.61/-, and this means he was cheating TANESCO to lose a total of 2,482,374.22/-,” he said. Speaking on the issue, the TANESCO Kilimanjaro Regional Manager, Engineer Mahawa Mkaka, cautioned their clients to avoid banking on dishonest electrical contractors, whom he said could ruin their lives and properties.