NATIONAL football team, Taifa Stars Head coach, Emmanuel Amunike, has told his players to believe in their ability, heading to group L final encounter against Uganda Cranes tomorrow. The country’s flag carriers face the Cranes of Uganda in a must win clash for Stars to race into 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals to be held in Egypt. The match to be staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam will be graced by Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa. “I told my players that they must believe in their ability because the biggest problem I have found facing most football players is lack of real belief or confidence in their own ability. “It’s true that Uganda is a good team but it does not mean that we can’t win against them. We need to win this match and qualify into the finals. Victory for Stars will be for everyone… not for me but Tanzanians deserve a place in the finals,” said former Nigerian international and Barcelona star. Already qualified, Uganda Cranes have nothing to lose from the match bearing in mind that any outcome after 90 minutes of play will be healthy for them. However, this is not the case with Taifa Stars who at all cost must win the match to reappear for the second time in the history of the continent’s biggest football event after nearly 39 years of absence. Packed in group L, Taifa Stars are second on the table with five points, eight points behind leaders Uganda Cranes, who have already qualified with 13 points. Lesotho are third with five points, while Carpe Verde trail the list with four points. A win for Taifa Stars will enable them reach eight points hence the outcome of the other fixture in the group between Lesotho and Carpe Verde will be the good judge for Stars’ destiny in the competition. The Nigerian tactician has also expressed his appreciation after all the players who have been called for the mission, reported at the camp timely, including professional players serving foreign teams. Their arrival, according to Amunike, has helped much to boost the training programme, something which he said to be highly motivating. Professional players who have arrived include the team’s skipper Mbwana Samatta who serves the Belgian topflight side, KRC Genk, Hassan Kessy who plays for Nkana FC of Zambia, Yahya Zayd from Ismaily of Egypt and Himid Mao from Petrojet- Egypt. Also reported and doing fine at the camp are Shaaban Chilunda and Faridi Mussa from Tenerife of Spain, Shiza Kichuya from the Egyptian side ENPPI, Simon Msuva from Morocco’s El Jadida, Rashid Mandawa (BDF, Botswana) and Thomas Ulimwengu from JS Saoura of Algeria. Meanwhile, Uganda Cranes were due to depart Egypt last night and are expected in Dar es Salaam today morning ready for the match. There was excitement in the Uganda Cranes camp on Thursday morning as the last foreignbased player expected Faruku Miya reported to the team’s base in Egypt. The HK Gorica offensive player’s timely arrival added steam to the team camp and was also able to train in the afternoon session. He is the 15th foreign-based player on the team summoned by Frenchman Sebastien Desabre. Miya will add to the offensive options on the team that already has tried and tested Emmanuel Okwi, Edrisa Lubega (SV Ried, Austria), Moses Opondo (Vendsyssel FF, Denmark), Muhammed Shaban (Raja Casablanca), Milton Karisa as well as the local based legion Patrick Henry Kaddu, Allan Okello, Allan Kyambadde and Moses Waiswa.