‘ DARE vandalise water infrastructure and you’ll face the music’. This was a stern warning issued to Lemanda villagers over the weekend by the Arumeru District Commissioner (DC), Mr Jerry Muro while handing over a water dam estimated at over 300m/- to the residents. Mr Muro was categorical that he will not spare anyone caught stealing the water valves or grazing herds of cattle near the water dam project that was renovated by an Italian agency, Oikos and handed over to the villagers. “Let’s use the dams wisely for the intended purpose, whoever is caught stealing anything from the dam will be squarely dealt with,” he warned. The DC also appealed to local elders commonly referred to as Laigwanans to preach peace in their communities and shun inciting the youth against developmental projects. “If anything, the Laigwanans have a noble responsibility of encouraging the guard of these projects,” he emphasized. He challenged the Lemanda residents to value and own the dam the way they do the same to their livestock, saying the 18.9mn litres dam will address water shortage in the area by 85 per cent. Earlier on, a water engineer with Oikos, Mr Simon Kajala told the DC that the Italian agency had built the watering trough for the community to use with their livestock. On her part Eco Boma Project Manager, Ms Ifura Ukio underscored the importance of protecting the water dams in the area which is known for being prone to drought. She disclosed that the four year project that funded by the European Union (EU) under the Global Climate Change Alliance (GCCA) Tanzania Programme and had introduced 15 technologies and innovations to different sectors namely, Agriculture, Energy and Forestry in coping with climate change. “Part of the project’s activities include rehabilitation of earth dams, ecological monitoring of rangelands and capacity building for local governments,” she said. It was further implemented by Istituto Oikos in collaboration with several partners and affiliates namely NM-AIST, Oikos East Africa, Meru and Arusha District Councils.