YOU may not believe this (neither do I) but, I have decided to participate in several of the marathons, that take place now and then in and outside the country. I am encouraged by the many people known to me, who are a “no miss”, come this, or that long distance running event. I see them on Facebook or Instagram. I admire their medals and it is a shame that I do not have one. True they are young, but I see a lot of sexagenarians, septuagenarians, octogenarians, nonagenarians and occasionally, centenarians participating in running events, and certainly, enjoying themselves. Here are some who got to hold a World record. Fauja Singh, born in April 1, 1911 in India, completed his last long-distance race, the Hong Kong 10 km (6.25 miles) run, in 1 hr 32 minutes and 28 seconds in 2013. He was 102 then, and this is not an April Fool’s Day joke. Herriette Thompson was heralded as the oldest woman to complete a marathon back in 2015. She was 92 at the time, but passed away only two years later at the age of 94. She broke the record when she finished the San Diego Rock ‘n’ Roll Marathon in 7:24:36. Ed Whitlock was an English-born Canadian long-distance runner. He was the first person over the age of 70 to run a marathon in less than 3 hours in Canada. He set a record in October of 2016 when he was 85, at the Toronto Waterfront Marathon by finishing it in under four hours. Whitlock was a runner in his teenage years, but he decided to take up the sport again in his 40s. The runner (sadly) died in 2017 from complications associated with prostate cancer. So, there are no excuses. You do not have to break any record, just run. I hope to do so! Congratulations to the 10,000 of you who will be participating in the Kilimanjaro Marathon in Moshi, on 3rd March. Information on the this event is reported in the Daily Blog, February 28 (p. 24) under the headline: “Moshi Buzzing ahead of the Kilimanjaro Marathon”. In his opening paragraph, the Daily Blog Reporter tells us the following: “Hundreds of Moshi residents ‘and its environs’ have turned up at the Keys Hotel in Moshi town to collect their numbers for the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon scheduled to take place this Sunday ……”. This sentence may need rearranging. Those who are turning up to collect numbers are residents of Moshi and its neighbourhood. I would thus restructure the sentence to reflect this: “Hundreds of residents of Moshi and its environs, have turned up at the Keys Hotel …..”. There are three categories of the Kili Marathon: The Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon (42 km), the Tigo Half Marathon (21 km) and the Grand Malt Fun Run (5 km). Our reporter tells us something about the Fun Run; “With barely three days to go to the big event, the issuing of numbers and registration ‘of’ the Grand Malt 5 km Fun Run started yesterday and will end today”. Surely, you are not issuing numbers and registration ‘of’, but ‘for’, the Grand Malt 5 km Fun Run! As expected, and according to the reporter: “Moshi town is already a beehive of ‘activities’, as some participants have ‘already’ started streaming in…..” All the authorities I have consulted refer to “a beehive of activity” or, “a hive of activity” (not “a beehive of activities”), with the plural form being “beehives of activity”. “Beehive of activity” means: “a busy place”, “a room full of working people”. Hoteliers in Moshi are a happy lot at the moment as our reporter tell us: “We received bookings since December so from Thursday, we will be ‘full booked’ until next week” said ‘a’ manager ‘at’ one of the hotels in Moshi”. “Full booked”? Hotels, airlines, get “fully booked”. The manager being reported upon is specific and his hotel is specific, so the reported language should reflect this: “We received bookings since December, so from Thursday, we will be ‘fully booked’ until next week”, said ‘the’ manager ‘of’ one of the hotels in Moshi”. How about security? The DC is reported to have said: “We have met and put in place, measures that will ensure the safety of the participants”. “We have met” is a direct translation from Kiswahili: “Tumekutana”. Who are we, who have met? RIP Rugemalila Mutahaba! We know you loved sports.