SHELL Tanzania and Young Scientist Tanzania (YST) recently inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will see the former footing a $100,0 00 (about 235m/-) financing aid in support of the latter’s activities. With a mission of encouraging Secondary School students to develop the love for Science subjects, YST undertakes two programmes that seek to deliver integrated and complementary events in the Tanzanian Secondary School academic year. That was revealed in Dar es Salaam by the Shell Tanzania Managing Director, Mr Marc den Hartog, adding that his firm’s support goes towards aiding students in their mastery of the disciplines mostly Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). He further said the course will include a comprehensive Science Outreach Programme that covers all the regions in the country, and an Annual YST Exhibition as well as competition in which Secondary School students showcase their researches. This, he said, was because the company operates in an area that requires a lot of technical expertise to undertake its projects. The company, he said, also believes that industrialisation and economic development of a country is anchored in science and technology. “Supporting YST is the best thing that I have seen. It has really made a difference and in the long term, it is increasing the number of people who are really educated,” added the Managing Director. Speaking during the signing of the agreement, the Director and Co-founder for YST, Dr Gozibert Kamugisha said in the recent past years, the organisation’s activities have had a profound impact in boosting scientific innovations in Tanzania. “That is why we as YST do commend Shell Tanzania to help and hope that they proceed because the investment they make in young scientists is for the general good of Tanzania,” he said. Shell’s support to young scientists in Tanzania goes back to 2012 when the company was operating as BG Tanzania. According to Dr Kamugisha, YST seeks to ensure that Secondary School students are able to use the knowledge that they gained in class to undertake researches that are meant to find solutions to their communities’ pressing challenges, especially in areas of agriculture, health, environment and energy among others.