POOR academic performance among primary school pupils could soon become a thing of the past after the Western Norway University of Applied Sciences teamed up with the Patandi Teachers’ College of Special Needs Education to implement ‘Securing education for children in Tanzania’ project. The four-year project involves reducing poverty through stimulating better reading capabilities among students and consequently increasing the percentage of students passing the final exams in Tanzanian primary schools. This is based on better viewing conditions in classrooms and improving vision functions among students with vision disturbances, according to Professor Gunvor Birkeland Wilhelmsen from the Norwegian based higher learning institution. “It is all about children’s vision, there are a lot of children having vision disturbances, conditions which are neither discovered by their teachers nor parents,” explained the university don in an interview with the ‘Daily News’ mid this week. According to Prof Wilhelmsen, children with vision disturbances have a tendency of losing interest in reading and learning and end up getting condemned and punished by their teachers and parents for registering low grades in their final exams. “This happens normally when eyes aren’t functioning well together and end up seeing foggy images because the eye muscles fail to send the right messages to the brain,” she expounded. According to the Norwegian Professor, they chose Patandi because it was a special needs college, where they had trained 32 teachers on eye muscles movements on pupils with vision disturbances. She emphasized that the project focused on screening what wasn’t screened by opticians. “We don’t recommend the usage of eyeglasses, but we work on their eye muscles in a bid to get rid of vision disturbances.” The project which runs from April 2017 to July 2021 at a tune of 2m/- pounds is being piloted by the Tengeru based college, making it the only college in Africa to offer such a programme. “We want Patandi to be the leading ship and later scale it up to other parts of the country,” she added.