PRESIDENT John Magufuli has directed the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to step up the fight against corruption, pointing out that if the menace is left unattended, it will gravely affect the country’s economic growth. The Head of State gave the directive at an event to receive the PCCB’s Implementation Report, which was preceded by the swearing-in of a new ambassador of Tanzania to Cuba, Mr Valentino Mlowola. The function took place at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday. According to the President, if corruption is at its minimal, the country will improve basic social services, raise salaries and in turn be very successful. “Corruption is a threat to peace, justice and development… a corrupt country cannot attract investors. We are aware of the situation whereby investors refuse to come and opt for another country due to the vice,” said the Head of State. He commended the PCCB Director General, Commissioner of Police (CP) Diwani Athumani and his deputy for a good start by managing to save over 70bn/-, calling upon them to further intensify their effort in the fight. President Magufuli urged them to be very cautious of the challenges ahead of them, citing the enormous unpleasant incidents and people pushing the country backwards. Among other things, he urged the PCCB boss to employ all the powers bestowed upon him to bring all parties linked in corruption acts to book. President Magufuli was impressed by the efforts and granted the request by the Minister of State in the President’s Office,Public Service Management and Good Governance George Mkuchika to establish 21 PCCB district centres to further intensify the war against corruption. He gave an example of a situation whereby he ordered a presidential plane to be branded as ATCL passenger plane but was told the country lacked the expertise to carry out the procedure. “About three companies were sought for the task and they were asking for my approval but I refused and told them to find people to do it here. Sometimes later they returned to me again but I maintained my position. “On one Sunday, I was informed that the plane will be leaving tomorrow and the people who will be escorting it have received an allowance of 28,000 US dollars (about 60m/-), an advance payment of 60 per cent has been made and some air hostesses will be going along for between 15 days to one month,” he said. He ordered for the plane not to leave and the rebranding task has been done in the country for five days. He identified among areas through which the country was being corned as tax refunds, saying most of them are being processed illegally. In the taxation area, he said there was a set of dishonest business people who possessed more than one electronic fiscal device (EFD) machine, an authentic one recognised by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and a false one. He pointed out that the director had informed him of a recent incident of a person who evaded tax of about 194 vehicles which were imported in the country. Despite the fact that the issue became known, it was vehemently defended. Besides the above incidents, the President revealed that some PCCB officials were linked to corruption. He said one of its directors deceitfully obtained money from his colleagues in exchange of some pieces of land.