BUKOBA Auxiliary Bishop Methodius Kilaini has praised the late Ruge Mutahaba for his enormous contribution in assisting fellow Tanzanians, urging youths to emulate his example. Bishop Kilaini made the remarks while paying his last respects to Mutahaba’s body at Gymkhana grounds in Bukoba Municipal Council. “As we mourn today, we are inspired by the enormous contribution Ruge made during his lifetime. The nation has lost a noble citizen. We shall miss him a lot,” he said. Minister of State (Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Investment), Ms Angellah Kairuki, told a tearful crowd that her office would ensure that they developed and fulfilled plans started by the late Mutahaba. Clouds Media Group Managing Director Joseph Kusaga described Mutahaba as a talented person who worked hard to assist and develop entrepreneurship skills. Renowned musician Mrisho Mpoto prompted mourners to burst into tears when he highlighted Ruge’s great contribution. A delegation of five ministers and five regional commissioners attended Ruge’s burial. They included January Makamba (Prime Minister’s Office - Union and Environment), Angellah Kairuki (PM’s Office - Investment), Dotto Biteko (Minerals), Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla (Natural Resources and Tourism) and Juma Aweso (Deputy Minister - Water and Irrigation). Regional Commissioners included Paul Makonda (Dar es Salaam), John Mongella (Mwanza), Anthony Mtaka (Simiyu), Adam Malima (Mara) and Hosea Ndagara (on behalf of Kigoma RC). Also present were several Members of Parliament (MPs) including Ridhiwani Kikwete (Chalinze), Nape Nnauye (Mtama) and Aishe Hilal (Sumbawanga). Ruge’s body arrived at Bukoba Airport at 10.45 am on Sunday aboard a government Fokker airplane 5H-TGF. President John Magufuli allowed the government-owned airplane to transport Ruge Mutahaba’s body from Dar es Salaam to Bukoba in recognition of his enormous contribution in uplifting the lives of many Tanzanians through his entrepreneurship skills. The body was taken to Gymkhana grounds where thousands of mourners paid their last respects starting 10.00 am until 4.00 pm. The body was later driven along a convoy from the grounds to Kiziru village, some 15 kilometres from Bukoba town, where he was laid to rest. Ruge, who was the Programmes and Production Director at Clouds Media Group, died last Tuesday while undergoing treatment in South Africa, battling with kidney failure for almost six months. He died at the age of 49.