NATIONAL Under-17 football team, Serengeti Boys launched their campaign at the UEFA Assist tournament on a back foot, after a 1-0 loss to Guinea in their debut match played yesterday in Antalya, Turkey. Guinea’s Conte Aboubacar scored the only goal of the match in the 26th minute, which survived until the end of normal period of play. The game, however, lacked intensity since it was played on the waterlogged Emri Complex pitch, thereby denying the talented young players to showcase their hidden potentials as far as football is concerned. Serengeti Boys will be in action again tomorrow as they take on Australia before winding up the fixture by entertaining hosts Turkey. In the yesterday’s encounter, Serengeti Boys used all available tricks in football to level the deficit and perhaps win their first assignment but most of their attempts were easily managed by Guinea players, whose towering height and stamina had advantage to them. In the second half, Serengeti Boys Head Coach, Oscar Milambo made three substitutions in the 68th minute, which saw his side coming back into the picture, playing with determination to pull level but the clock was ticking fast to post the tangible outcome. Brilliance skills from players like Kelvin John, Micheal Morris and Muhammed Ben kept a promising future for the country’s flag fliers ahead of the hot contest and most importantly, the exposure they are getting during the tournament in Turkey will bear fruits. UEFA Assist tournament has no champion as they are arranged to promote youth football and help to identify key talents from the young players. In view of this, all teams will play three matches before returning back to their respective countries. Both Serengeti Boys and Guinea are using the tournament as part and parcel of their preparations for the approaching Under-17 Africa Cup of the Nations (AFCON) slated to take off in the country from April 14th to 28th this year. Renovation works on the venues where the competition will be held are at advanced stage leaving no stone unturned. The government revealed that three stadiums which are the National Stadium, Uhuru Stadium and Azam Complex will host the competition. Serengeti Boys are packed in group A, probably the most difficult category together with Nigeria, Uganda and Angola, whereas Guinea are in group B, which consists Cameroon, Morocco and Senegal.