VODACOM Tanzania has launched its Vodacom business unit specifically tailored to meet the growing and ever changing needs of businesses to enhance competitive edge, efficiency and connectivity within their operations without diverting attention from the core business. Vodacom’s Managing Director, Hisham Hendi said the unit will cater for large corporates, small to medium sized enterprises (SMEs) as well as small home offices. “Globally there is a shift towards digital, online and cloud applications, so we expect our customers to also focus on new ways of working for efficiency, competitiveness and we believe we are the right partners with the right solutions to help them achieve this,” he said. Vodacom which is the largest telco in the country has long positioned itself as an enabler of economic development with innovative products and services tailored to meet customer needs. Large corporates like banks, public sector are looking for innovative solutions that will simplify their operations, keep them competitive and offer asset security. Vodacom offers products like co-location, cloud computing, data MPLS, toll free and M-Pesa business to ensure large corporates operate efficiently and remain productive. The country’s industrial drive has seen a mushrooming of small and mid-sized businesses with complex needs in terms of technology requirements and support yet have few or limited resources so are looking for cost saving solutions. “Vodacom is committed to supporting emerging businesses with solution to help achieve their ambitions and prepare for the future which is why we have a range of products especially made for this segment,” he said. The mid-sized businesses like NGOs that improved operations and smart business management is their priority will benefit from products like IoT, SIM manager and bulk SMS while small business and SOHO’s looking for cost saving, connectivity and cut operation costs and can tap into products like M-Pesa, Business solutions and bulk SMS to transform their businesses. Through these remarkable innovations and clear shift in business approach, Vodacom is positioning itself as a strategic partner to businesses focused on providing solutions that harness the power of technology to ensure businesses are competitive, efficient and wellconnected in their operations. “We are the total telecom solution provider who can partner with any business or industry and seamlessly transform it,” he added.