KILWA District wants negotiations for the construction of a 3.9tri/- fertiliser plant in the area in what analysts observe that will be the largest fertiliser plant in East and Central Africa. That was unveiled yesterday here by the Kilwa District Commissioner (DC), Christopher Ndubiagai, while addressing to Tanzania Standard Newspaper Limited (TSN) journalists in his office, adding that already land has been set aside for the big investment under the consortium of fertiliser plants from Norway, Denmark and Germany. “We would like negotiations for this investment to be fast-tracked. This will lift the economy and open up jobs and business opportunities,” he told the reporters, who had paid him a courtesy call, as part of activities ahead of Lindi Business and Investment Forum planned for later part of this month. The DC further said: “The area for construction of the plant is already allocated. The tittle deed is ready and has been handed to Tanzania Petroleum Development Company (TPDC). Equally, Mr Ndubiagai hinted that plans for the construction of the plant have reached an advanced level, where currently Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) and the investors were negotiating about gas prices to be used as raw materials in the fertiliser production. Scientifically, natural gas is required for the production of ammonia, which is used to manufacture fertilisers. Kilwa District is home to Songo Songo gas field located in and along the offshore of Songo Songo Island. Natural gas from the shores and three offshore wells at the Island, is piped to a plant on the Isles for procession, before it is transported to Dar es Salaam through another pipeline. Tanzania also boasts of estimated recoverable reserves of over 57 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of natural gas discovered in deep-sea offshore blocks in Lindi and Mtwara Regions. In the exploration, a team of international investors presided over by the Royal Dutch Shell, alongside Statoil, Exxon Mobil and Ophir Energy, plan to build a $3 0 billion onshore LNG export terminal in partnership with the state-run Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) in Lindi near large offshore gas discoveries. Last year the government invited bids for consultancy services to help in negotiations with the international oil firms, on a deal for the construction of the proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant.