SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said he is aware of TP Mazembe’s system of football play and he will use that to get good results from them. Simba entertain TP Mazembe from DR Congo in the first leg match of the CAF Champions League (CAF CL) quarter finals on April 6 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, while the reverse action will be staged away in Lubumbashi, DR Congo a week later. Simba, the country’s and East Africa block sole representatives in the continent’s biggest football showpiece, booked a place into last eight thanks to a hard fought 2-1 triumph over AS Vita of DR Congo at the same venue about two weeks ago. The Msimbazi Street giants will be looking to maintain their unbeaten run at the 60,000 capacity stadium in all competition this season, which has been the epicentre of their success. Again, it was the Zambian bought midfielder Clatous Chama who stabbed the winner to re-write the club’s history in the hot contest. He did the same against Nkana FC during the qualification round. Simba finished runners up in their group D with nine points, a point behind leaders Al Ahly at 10 points from six matches. Speaking recently in the city, Aussems said he has vital information about TP Mazembe. “I have some important information about TP Mazembe and I know that they are rivals of AS Vita whose coach is also my best friend,” he said. However, at some point during his past interviews, Aussems admitted that his seed should change the way they approach away matches in the competition. Immediately after Simba made it into the Champions League group stages, the coach revealed that his number one objective was to win all three home games to claim maximum nine points, an objective that the club managed to attain. He said it was difficult for his team to post away wins and in the end, Simba lost all three ties they played outside the boundaries.“At this phase (quarter finals), we need to change our mindset by aiming to score and win away clashes because away goal rule and points are both vital here,” Aussems said. In the same token, the team’s creative midfielder Haruna Niyonzima said playing in the CAF Champions League final has always been his dream. Niyonzima has been instrumental in most of the games that Simba have won this term and he was massively involved in the winning goal against AS Vita. On his Instagram page, Niyonzima wrote, “Ever since I was a child, I have always wanted to play in the CAF Champions League final.” In another development, Simba’s Doctor, Yassin Gembe, confirmed yesterday that the team will be minus first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, during their Mainland Premier League match against Mbao FC at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro tomorrow. Manula suffered a wrist injury during the national team, Taifa Stars clash against Uganda Cranes in Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. Gembe said that Taifa Stars Doctor, Richard Yombo had advised them to rest the goalkeeper, at least for a week.