THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR) and the East African Court of Justice (EACJ) have taken their cooperation to new heights, as they sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to enhance promotion and consolidation of human rights. At a ceremony that, took place at the seat of AfCHPR on Wednesday, AfCHPR President, Justice Sylvain Ore and that of the EACJ, Dr Emmanuel Ugirashebuja, noted that after lengthy discussions they had found out that it was pertinent to work together on their common goals in a way that added value to human rights on the continent. The Presidents and Judges agreed to cooperate for an initial period of three years on issues such as within the context of the constitutive instruments of AfCHPR and EACJ. The parties agreed to cooperate in terms of staff exchange, reciprocal representation, knowledge and information sharing as well as research and training. “As far as possible and where working conditions in the respective Courts so permit, the Parties undertake to cooperate in training, capacity building and resource mobilisation for the execution of joint projects,” reads part of the MoU signed by Registrars from both sides, witnessed by the Judge Presidents and other senior staff. In his remarks, President Ore thanked President Ugirashebuja for the way he took part in forging the attachment through cordial relations that bound them, the highlight of which was the African Court Judges’ visit on September 4 to the seat of the EACJ that left an indelible mark in their hearts. “Mr President, on that occasion you stated that our visit was proof of the interaction between our two Courts, which are part of the larger family of the international justice system and how former honourable members of your Court contributed to cementing the foundations of AfCHPR. This Court is also the fruit of your labour. “This means that our proximity to each other is borne not only from the fact that we share the same geographical space and live in the city of Arusha, but also from our common history, our love for humankind and our commitment to his dignity wherever he is located. It’s, therefore, not surprising that your exceptional interpretation insight has made it possible and you have demonstrated it, despite the constraints from your constitutive act in that regard, to extract requirements for the respect of human rights from the EAC Treaty and from certain cases that you have dealt with,” said Justice Ore. The AfCHPR President said through the links they had established between them were laying the foundation of their interaction slowly but surely by successive sedimentation and there lies the secret of its reassuring firmness. “We are sure that, tomorrow, there will be no war on the interpretation. On the contrary, our shared apprehension of human rights protection will give individuals the highest degree of protection. In particular, our Courts will reflect on interdependence between economic, social and cultural rights and civil and political rights,” he said.