AS the world celebrated the International Women’s Day on Friday, companies in Tanzania have been urged to create a sustainable culture that supports achieving a more gender balanced society both at family level and in workplaces. The observations were made during a panel discussion held at NMB Bank Plc headquarters on Friday, coinciding with the annual World Women’s day commemorations. Panelists at the discussion held at the NMB Bank Headquarters in Dar es Salaam, argued that this year’s theme for the International Women’s Day “Balance for Better” should be accustomed to daily undertakings for the society to attain meaningful achievements. This, they argued, can be achieved by raising awareness against gender biasness. In his opening remarks, NMB’s Ag Head of Human Resource, Emmanuel Akonaay, stroke a chord when he challenged the gathering to perceive gender equality beyond the numbers. In his views, a gender balanced society cannot be achieved only in terms of numbers. “Is it enough?” he queried, adding: “We are doing very well in some levels, but is this enough?” “What should we do to get where probably we should have been?” he challenged the gathering, posing an example of women in leadership positions. According to him, it should not be based on the assumption that by appointing more women in leadership position the society could attain the balanced numbers in terms of gender. For him, the right approach should be based on merits and competence of particular individuals who are worthy of the leadership position. “It needs creation of a level playing field where everyone would feel safe and secured,” he said, pointing out an example of a female interviewee facing a male dominated panel. On her part, Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDT) Director of operations responsible for programmes, Irene Mlola, took a different angle in looking at the theme “#BalanceforBetter”. From her organisation’s perspective, she said financial inclusion is key to a better balanced society. “We believe that through financial inclusion, people will be able to balance their lives and eventually live a better life,” she noted. However, she was quick to comment that despite diversities, a stubborn gap still exists between men and women in terms of accessing financial services. “Today, there are some evidence that suggests and proves that by bringing more women in the position where men are, the whole world economy in terms of GDP would increase,” she argued. Supporting Irene’s observations, NMB’s Strategy & Investor Relations Specialist, Caroline Yambesi said that creating a sustainable culture that supports inclusive work balance should be the main focus. “In this millennial environment, companies should move away from the gross misconception that hiring more men is equal to more productivity. She further advised people to not only look at HR ratio at a company level but also go deeper and look at what women bring to the table. Trademark East Africa Country Director, John Ulanga, voiced his support for the other panelists observations, saying on one hand, the whole society should be happy with the progress that has been achieved so far.