AN early morning fire has damaged one of the cottages of Ilboru Safari Lodge, a three star hotel in the city. The incident occurred when at least 35 visitors booked in at the cottage had already checked out of their rooms. The fire is said to have emanated from one of the cottages that belonged to the lodge’s manager. In a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, Regional Superintend of Fire, Kennedy Komba attributed the fire to an electrical fault caused by a laptop and an incandescent light bulb that were left on throughout the night. “We suspect that there was an electrical fault caused by an initial power outage,” noted Mr Komba. According to him, a jerry can of kerosene was kept in one of the cottages, which he suspected must have aggravated the early morning inferno. No sooner had the fire spread to other cottages than two fire engines successfully doused it off, saving properties worth of millions at the three-star luxurious safari lodge nestled on the lower slopes of Mt Meru. “Most of the chalets were thatched with grass, it would have been easier for the inferno to spread to other rooms as well, causing more damage. It took two fire engines from the regional fire and rescue force to contain the blaze. No one was hurt in the incidence, save for the shock and devastation that was felt by the hotel owners.” When reached for comment, the lodge’s managing director Annelies Metili said it was a devastating fire accident, but thanks to God noone was injured. “Luckily there were no guests when the fire broke out,” she noted. According to Ms Metili, only one out of the 25 cottages was destroyed by the blaze. When asked on the cause of the fire, Ms Metili said it was too early to establish neither the cause nor the loss caused by it. Earlier, Ms Metili issued a statement to the general public concerning the incident. She assured tour operators and the general public that the lodge had resumed operations and that services had not been interrupted by the incident. “This morning a fire occurred on the lodge property which was quickly responded to and extinguished by the local fire brigade. A private residence on the property suffered considerable damage and one nearby cottage had minor damage. Other than this damage to property there were no personal injuries nor were guests staying at the lodge impacted in any way. Business continues as usual and we appreciate your ongoing support,” the statement reads.