TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) has acknowledged initiatives to promote investment opportunities in regions by Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited as a complementary role to its basic responsibility. The TIC Executive Director, Mr Geoffrey Mwambe, said in Lindi Region on Tuesday that they recognise that by organising investments forums in regions, TSN, the government-owned publisher of ‘Daily News’ and ‘Habari Leo’ newspapers, was complementing what they do. “Investment promotion is the primary responsibility of TIC. What is currently being done is to help each other,” he said at the forum organised by TSN and Lindi Regional Commissioner’s office to promote investment opportunities in Lindi Region. TSN has already organised business and investment forums in Arusha, Tanga, Zanzibar, Geita, Simiyu, Tabora and Shinyanga regions. Mr Mwambe said the forums were important platforms for promoting investment opportunities and attracting domestic and foreign investors to drive up growth and development. The TIC top boss supported efforts to promote opportunities in Lindi, saying the region has enormous wealth in every district which needs to be utilised to stimulate economic activities. “Lindi has everything. It is geographically strategically located and each district has different resources which brings up a good mix,” he said. He called on Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials to engage traders and encourage them to pay taxes instead of harassing them. “To TRA we want tax revenue. Your job is to expand the tax base. When we get more investors means we get more tax payers,” he said, noting he sits on the TRA board of directors. Lindi Region is seeking to promote its untapped rich resources in oil and gas, agriculture, fisheries, tourism, and mining sectors for domestic and foreign investments in order to boost growth and development in the region. The region will be home to a $30 billion liquefied natural gas (LNG) project by multinational oil and gas companies.