THE construction of Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA)’s Terminal 3 in Tanzania’s commercial capital, Dar es Salaam, has been completed by 95 per cent. It is expected to be completed by 100 per cent in May this year, thanks to the government’s push to have it completed as soon as possible and up to standard. This is after taking into account delays caused by lack of funds. Terminal 3 will create many opportunities for the government and nation! This is due to the fact that the new facility will also facilitate the setting up of other facilities and services at and around JNIA. When Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa toured the construction site to inspect its progress on Friday, he reiterated the government’s stand to have it finished as agreed and, therefore, he pushed for preparations to make it start operating immediately after being handed over by the Dutch contractor, BAM Group. With the number of planes we have today and those privately owned, there will be more flights at JNIA and this has implications for advertising Tanzania to other nations, local tourism and foreign exchange. The completion of Terminal 3 will obviously put the facility in the right position in terms of having a standard and multi-purpose international facility. The facility, however, will be able to accommodate 24 large planes and handle six million annual passengers, including parking lots, access roads, platforms and a taxiway. This will be more than double of the current annual traffic, which according to last year’s statistics (March), stands at about 2.5 million passengers. Expansion of JNIA is part of the government’s plan to transform the country into a regional hub and boost the country’s tourism sector and economy. This means that improved JNIA infrastructure translates into new air transport links – both domestic and international and - more foreign exchange earnings. According to last year’s Bank of Tanzania (BoT) statistics, tourism is Tanzania’s biggest foreign exchange earner, brought in the country about $2.4 billion last year. With these developments, there will be a big difference in air services for more visitors to come and visit tourist attractions. This, of course, will put us on the world map as our planes will not only be domestic, but also international flights. For that matter we have every reason to feel proud of the stage we have reached at the moment, especially when Terminal 3 is handed over to the government in May.