THE government is set to introduce major changes in the management of the Cooperatives, Credits and Savings Unions in the country by reviewing academic qualifications of the top leaders manning them countrywide. Besides that, the state is similarly in top gear to amend the Cooperative Unions Act Number 6 of 2013 in order to incorporate new legislative and regulatory transformations in making the unions more vibrant and stronger. The anticipated changes were sketched here on Wednesday by the Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga as he addressed members of the East African Regional meeting of the African Confederation of Cooperatives Savings and Credit Association (ACCOSCA). According to the minister, the two major changes were targeting to overcome operational and management snags that have been besetting the unions for many years, leading to their underperformance and collapse. “The government will soon review the Cooperative Unions Act which will go alongside reviewing the academic qualifications of the top leaders in those Unions as many leaders in the office have outdated qualifications,” he said. The minister said Tanzania had around 6,137 dredit and savings unions with total assets worth 1.3trl/-, over 905,000 registered members and over 800,000 non members benefiting from their financial services. Overall, he said, cooperatives and unions across the country had over 3.9 million members, which makes it crucial for them to be led by people with the right qualifications, and phasing out those with standard seven education levels. He said the government will sustain support for unions since they were potential facilitators of the country’s economic development, with records showing that they had provided direct employment to over 13,000 people by December last year. Minister Hasunga issued several directives to the authorities dealing with the unions and challenged all sectoral Ministries to establish cooperative desks and strictly monitor all the contributions from their members. Earlier, the Registrar of Cooperatives, Mr Tito Haule, and the Chairman of the Savings and Credit Co-operative Union League of Tanzania (SCCULT), Dr Gervase Machimu, said Tanzania was prepared to regain its glory by having impressively performing cooperative unions as was the case previously. He challenged members in East Africa to observe laws and regulations governing the sector, adding that Tanzania was passing through some radical changes in reshaping its co-operative unions’ status that will see it bouncing back strongly over the next two years. On his part, Dr Machimu thanked President John Magufuli for supporting the cooperatives sector since the fifth phase government assumed office and commended ACCOSCA for ensuring stable cooperative unions in the East African region. However, he said many cooperative, credits and savings unions had a number of challenges that included delays in deductions and submissions of members’ contributions, sabotage of properties and assets and issuance of ghost loans.