PRIME Minister (PM) Kassim Majaliwa (pictured) has urged traders to support the government’s efforts to fight against corruption. Speaking in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam, at the weekend, he urged them to shun corrupt practices. “Notable achievements have been realised in the country as a result of the fight against corruption and this has led to improvements in the health sector. In this regard, the fight against corruption should be encouraged by every citizen,” said the PM. Thus, the PM called upon public officials to regularly visit traders at their workplaces to listen to them and solve their problems. “Every official should work diligently. Bureaucracy, looking down on other people and the use of abusive language have been common, which is not right,” noted the Premier. According to the PM, plans are underway for the government to transform the way business is done in Kariakoo to allow traders to operate their businesses 24 hours. He pointed out that the goal was to boost the country’s economy and that of the business community as a whole. The PM would meet Dar es Salaam regional leaders to devise ways of implementing the plan. He noted that Dar es Salaam was a commercial city in the country and that was why the government had planned to ensure the business environment was improved and opportunities were available for traders to operate smoothly. In another development, the PM directed Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment Joseph Kakunda, Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu to merge the Tanzania Food and Drugs and Authority (TFDA) with the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS). Mr Majaliwa said since TFDA and TBS were discharging similar duties the ministers should meet and go through their functions and come up with a prosed Bill to merge them. This, according to the PM, will address nuisance tariffs and bureaucracy, which are detrimental to business and customers. He revealed that institutions had been wasting a lot of time to test products, which had been causing inconveniences to traders. “I am just wondering which kind of chemicals you use that cause delays in getting the anticipated results. TBS tests stools and shirts, but when you discover that the products are substandard, you don’t take the trouble to inform owners,” noted Mr Majaliwa. He cited an example of a person, who had ordered windows and other construction supplies for the completion of his house, but was told that the materials were substandard. He called upon each institution to perform its functions and stop asking for bribes from customers.