THE country’s Medical Stores Department (MSD), has refuted claims that it was running out of Morphine, a narcotic pain reliever used to treat moderate to severe pain. The autonomous department under the Ministry of Health maintains that it had enough supply of Morphine in its Dar es Salaam’s main warehouse and in its zonal stores across the country. In a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, MSD Director General, Mr Laurean Rugambwa Bwanakunu refuted claims that the department’s stores were experiencing a shortage of the drug. He, however, said that Morphine was a controlled drug that is procured strictly through authorisation. “It is not true that we are running out of the drug, much as it is a strictly controlled drug, Morphine can only be released through special permission and authorisation,” clarified the MSD boss. He urged health centres and districts in need of the drug to follow the right procedures in acquiring Morphine. Mr Bwanakunu’s clarification comes two days after pharmacists and social workers raised concern on the availability of the drug that acts directly on the central nervous system to decrease the feeling of pain. Health experts who convened here for a two day advocacy meeting for access to controlled medicines in Palliative Care took issue with what they described as a cumbersome process of ordering and procuring the drug. A Palliative Care Manager with the Evangelical Lutheran Church (ELCT), Dr Paul Mbando said here on Monday that Tanzania had a large Morphine stock, calling on authorities to do away with the barriers of accessing the essential drug. “We have less than 60 per cent of health facilities that are provided for with Morphine,” he said. According to Dr Mbando, by 2011, Tanzania had only four health facilities that were permitted by the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) to issue Morphine. One of the centres that were given the green light to procure the drug includes the Ocean Road Cancer Institute (OCRI). Morphine is used to help relieve moderate to severe pain. The drug belongs to a class of drugs known as opioid (narcotic) analgesics. It works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain. On Monday, Tanzania and Uganda vowed to pressure drug authorities in both countries to authorize more procurement of Morphine. Uganda’s Principal Pharmacist, Dr Fred Sebisubi emphasized the importance of East African Community (EAC) member states to allocate a specific budget for the procurement of the drug. “Ordering and procuring of such drugs should not be taking long, they need to be readily accessible and available,” he said.