ENERGY and Minerals Parliamentary Committee has commended the Minerals Ministry for using building materials made in the country in its two ongoing construction projects in Dodoma City. The Parliamentary Committee’s Chairman, Mr Dunstan Kitandula with his entourage, took the stance while their tour to project sites in the city that took them to the ministry’s building located at suburban of Ihumwa. “Other ministries and institutions should emulate Energy Ministry for promoting local industries by using building materials made locally in the country,” pointed out Mr Kitandula, who also doubles as Mkinga Constituency Member of Parliament (MP). The tour also took the Energy and Minerals Parliamentary Committee to Minerals Resources Institute (MRI), which is putting up a new administration block in its main campus at Miyuji, Dodoma City. However, Mr Kitandula, said local industries also have a role to play in promoting their products by improving standards of their products, adding that they should produce products of high quality to penetrate both local and international markets. On his side, Energy Minister, Mr Doto Biteko, expressed gratitude to Mzinga Holdings Company Limited, which is putting up the ministry’s office building for the speedy construction, saying despite being tasked to do it within a short time, they have managed to do it professionally and efficiently. “I am optimistic that the construction project will be completed with the timeframe after extension of one month due to some challenges,” pointed out the Minister. According to the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Mineral’s Ministry, Prof Simon Msanjila, the construction works at their office has been extended to the end of this month from last month due to challenge of rains interfering with their work. Engineer Hagay Mziray from Mzinga Holdings Company Limited, observed that his company has used most of the building materials acquired locally in the country, further citing them as cement and marbles. “We have used marbles which are available in Dodoma for floor construction in the Ministry’s office building,” he added.