AT least 5,400 Tanzanians are set to get employment during the implementation of Stiegler's Gorge Hydroelectric Power Station (SGHPS), which will be able to generate over 2,100MW. Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, told the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals, which visited the construction site recently, that 5,000 Tanzanians would be employed as temporary workers and 400 others would be employed under permanent contracts. The parliamentary committee, which visited the construction site to assess mobilisation procedures, was led by its chairman, Mr Danstan Kitandula. According to Mr Kalemani, between 3,000 and 5,000 Tanzanians will be employed during the construction, while between 250 and 400 others will get permanent employment after construction. “Other 400 Tanzanians will be employed when the project starts to generate 2,225MW. This means they will be employed after construction,” he noted. He added: “Employment opportunities will help Tanzanians get income and improve their lives.” According to Dr Kalemani, the implementation of the project will uplift the livelihoods of Mloka villagers in Rufiji District in Cost Region and of Kisaki villagers in Morogoro Region. He added that the project would enable the supply of electricity to 37 villages in Kibiti and Chalinze. A total of 12 villages will be connected to electricity under Tanzania Rural Energy Agency (REA) programme. The government signed a construction agreement with Arab Contractors and Elsewedy Electric from Egypt in December 2018. Speaking after the signing of the contract, Speaker of National Assembly Job Ndugai reaffirmed the Parliament’s commitment to supporting the implementation of the hydropower project. Mr Ndugai praised the government for achieving what he described as a “historic landmark.” He added that: “As Parliament, we will support the initiative by allocating sufficient funds to make this project successful and useful.” The project is expected to cost 6.5tri/-. In October 4, 2018, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa visited the construction site and asked all Tanzanians and experts to play their roles effectively in ensuring proper implementation of the project. In February, this year, the government handed over the site to the Egyptian contractor. The move paved the way for the contractor to officially start the job that will avail additional 2,100MW to the national grid.