DEPUTY Minister of State in Prime Minister's Office responsible for the Disabled, Ms Stella Ikupa, has said helping People with Disability (PWDs), does not need one to be rich since helping the needy just requires a giving heart. Handing over wheelchairs to the PWDs yesterday in Dar es Salaam, she said majority of the population in many communities hold the view that unless one is blessed with riches, they cannot help the needy in the society, a perception which she said was utterly wrong. She applauded the preparations for East African Arts and Culture Festival (JAMAFEST 2019), made by the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports (JAMAFEST 2019)JAMAFEST. “ I would also like to commend the preparations done and the quality goods showcased in the pavilions by the disabled people.” According to Ms Ikupa the government is striving to make sure that in every event people with disability participate. One of the wheel chairs handed over has been donated by Executive Secretary of the National Arts Council (BASATA) Mr Godfrey Mngereza,” she revealed. She said: “A small thing that you think you can do to a person, might be a big one to another one. “Even contributing 20,000/= to PWDs is commendable.” Addressing the employment challenge that most PWDs face, she noted that PWDs have rules, policies, guidelines, and laws that are to be followed. “Every employer who has over 20 employees is to follow what the law entails, and that is to have 3 percent of PWDs in his or her team of employees,” she said. Cheering for the festival again, Ms Ikupa said, “From the various exhibitors I have been able to meet; it is evident that this festival is huge and beneficial. Apart from business, people have been able to expand their knowledge on various issues and broadened their networks. “I urge Tanzanians to turn up in their multitudes to visit the festival where apart from the numerous and exotic free entertainment, they will get to learn and expand their knowledge and even meet new contacts and make new businesses.” “Once you arrive at the festival, one will not regret; it will be time fruitful and well spent,” she insisted. One of the recipients of the wheelchairs, Mr Martin Pokela said his gratitude to the kind heartedness of the supporters. He then requested the government to further assist him as he is a singer who has not yet reached the spotlight. “I am grateful for the wheelchair that I have received; it will help me in my many movements at home, but I would need a motorbike that will be taking me to church and choir practices.” With that request a representative of Radio 5 Mr Semio Sonyo, offered to record two of his songs at the station for free.