AUTHORITIES in Kilimanjaro Region have called upon NMB Bank to introduce more products in its services and cover more rural areas, so as to improve the wellbeing of its customers and Tanzanians in general. The call was made by the Kilimanjaro Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Engineer Aisha Amour, during the region’s version of the NMB Bank sponsored Teachers’ Day that was held in Moshi on Thursday. “The new services should be compatible with education for a wide range of people, especially those in rural areas, so that more people can access the best services provided by NMB countrywide of which many, especially those residing in rural areas are not aware of,” she said in a statement read on her behalf by Mr Fulgence Mponji from Kilimanjaro Regional Secretariat. RAS Amour said that statistics show that a large percentage of the population, especially those living in rural areas, has not started accessing services provided by financial institutions, saying that those who use such services accounted for only about 40 per cent or a little bit more. “This is clear evidence that a workshop like this is important and what you should do is to continue holding such workshops at various levels in the society, especially for those who live in rural areas,” she said. Eng. Amour hailed NMB Bank for its close cooperation with the government through its services including loans to Central Government and Local Government employees. “Statistics show that the NMB Bank has offered two trillion shillings to Central Government employees as well as those from Local Governments countrywide, most of them being teachers,” she said, adding that for many teachers, the loans have made them lead good, happy lives that are stress-free in their retirement. S enior Manager, Consumer Lending and Employee Banking from the NMB Headquarters, Mr Ally Ngingite, said the institution had continued to launch new products regularly with the aim of improving the lives of Tanzanians of all levels. “Our services are aimed at supporting government’s efforts to improve the lives of citizens and the national economy, including ensuring that citizens use banking services rather than cash, so that they could correspond with current global trend of financial spending using financial institutions. “In fulfilling this mission, NMB already has 229 branches nationwide, over 7,000 agents, over 800 Automated Teller Machine (ATMs) services and over 2.5 million customers who use NMB mobile financial services,” he said. The officer noted that the NMB Bank had continued to improve family lives by introducing a savings product for children, with the aim of providing children with education to invest alongside financial discipline among them in the early stages of their lives. NMB Northern Zone Manager, Ms Aikasia Muro, said that NMB was proud to collaborate with the Government and Tanzanians in general. “Teachers contribute 50% of all NMB customers and they are the leading credit providers of our institution,” she said, adding that its success was attributed to great cooperation the institution received from its clients through various advice and opinions. “ We have improved and continue to enhance our services on a regular basis (from year to year), fulfilling our responsibilities through the advice and opinions we receive from our clients,” she said. During the occasion, apart from testimonies which were presented by some of the clients, teachers and schools which performed well in national examinations in primary, secondary (both O and A level studies) and the District Education Officers (both primary and Secondary officials) were awarded with certificates and trophies following their respective successes.