TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) Tengeru and Mikocheni Centre, in collaboration with World Vegetable Centre (WorldVeg), have embarked on new amaranth vegetable research that will contribute to better livelihoods and better nutrition in the country, East Africa and in sub-Saharan Africa. Under the project Amazing Amaranth (Mchicha) that aims at developing nutritious amaranth lines and food practices to improve nutrition in East African researchers will release other four improved varieties that will result in increased amaranth production and consumption to benefit smallholder farm households and consumers. According to TARI Tengeru Centre Project Coordinator Emmanuel Laswai there were over 20 local amaranth varieties cultivated in Tanzania and other four improved varieties would be developed under this project. Mr Laswai told 'Sunday News' yesterday that Amazing amaranth would broaden and intensify the use of amaranth germplasm for developing improved varieties, focus on nutritional content as a breeding objective and form close collaboration with development partners and value chain actors to maximise theimpact of new amaranth varieties. "Our main aim is to release new varieties of amaranth to improve nutrition to our people. Most of people are not aware of the importance of amaranth. Investment in amaranth research and development will contribute to better livelihoods and nutrition in Tanzania and other Africa countries," he noted. He added: "We have released three varieties, including poll - both leaves and grain cab be used, Nguruma only leaves are used and Aker. We expect to release other four varieties after the ongoing Amazing Amaranth project.” He noted that many Tanzanians did not understand the nutrition value of amaranth as they thought it was only poor people. According to Mr Laswai, amaranth can be consumed as a green vegetable or a grain. The crop is easy to grow, heat- drought- and salt-tolerant and can be attacked by only few diseases. The grain is protein-rich 16 per cent, with balanced amino acid content. Leaves are high in micronutrients, including vitamin C, pro-vitamin A, calcium, magnesium, potassium, iron and phosphorus. "Amaranth is high in protein (over 16 per cent), has balanced amino acid content, calcium, potassium, iron, and vitamins A and C.Amaranth is easy to grow," he explained, adding: “It is heat and drought tolerant and resistant to many diseases. Mr Laswai mentioned three common types of amaranth used as leaves, grain and those used as grain and leaves. “We expect to establish demonstration plots next year to create public awareness about different improved varieties of amaranth to improve people’s health," he insisted. The five-year Amazing amaranth project, which started 2018-2021, is expected to benefit many people across Tanzania, including Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Mwanza, Iringa, Dodoma and other regions in the country. The project is implemented in Kenya and Tanzania. "We expect to have preliminary findings in 2021. We also expect to add more three years to ensure the varieties reach farmers," he noted. Researcher innovator Emmanuel Vincent pointed out: "This is amazing amaranth. We met with all stakeholders and value chain actors of amaranth to discuss all problems and opportunities found in growing amaranth in Tanzania.” Commenting, Fekadu Dinssa from World Vegetable Centre (WorldVeg) said amaranth was the most popular vegetable variety in Africa. "Amaranth is rich in vitamin A and other nutrients compared to other vegetables in Africa. We develop many varieties to improve the livelihoods of African people," he said. Amaranth (Amaranthus spp.) originates from Central America and was introduced to Africa in the 20th century. There are over 60 amaranth species globally.