THE proposed interventions for red meat production on traditional family farms and commercial ranches as well as feedlot development would result in a 52 per cent increase in total red meat production. The Tanzania Livestock Master Plan shows 2017/18–2021/22 that the development of the meat technology training staff and the provision meat processing skills is key to increasing red meat production. The master plan underscores the need for investment in export infrastructure for animal holding and quarantine centres as well as in programs for disease surveillance, monitoring of abattoirs, animal identification and traceability as important strategy in boosting red meat production. It stated that the combined interventions, production would grow to 742,500 tonnes between 2017 and 2022. However, this would not meet expected consumption growth of 71 per cent by year 2022 to 867,302 tonnes, leaving a 17 per cent deficit of 124, 800 tonnes in the 2017–2022 red meat production and consumption balance. Due to extremely limited access to land for grazing and feed production, and limited ability to enhance the genetic potential of local ruminant breeds in the medium-term mean, it is unlikely that the red meat production gap can be closed in the next five years. Furthermore, with the substantive increase in the supply of red meat from small ruminants with goat meat and mutton currently accounting for 14 per cent and 4 per cent respectively this is unlikely to significantly help close the projected meat consumption-demand gap as beef accounts for 82 per cent of the red meat production in Tanzania. Given the rapidly growing population, and increasing incomes and demand for animal-source foods in Tanzania, such projected deficits would be expected to put upward pressure on red meat prices. Moreover, meeting the growing red meat export goals in the Agricultural Sector Development Programme Phase Two (ASDP II), period would also be extremely difficult. With additional investment report stated that the self-sufficiency rate will increase from 35 per cent to 105 per cent. This will eventually result into a surplus of 158 thousand metric tonnes which represents a potentially exportable quantity of not only primarily beef, but also perhaps other ruminant meats namely goat meat and mutton to surrounding countries and even surplus chicken and eggs.