SIMBA and Mtibwa Sugar come face to face in the Mainland Premier League match at the U huru Stadium in Dar es Salaam this evening. The defending champions will be eyeing to maintain their perfect start to the season and to pocket vital three points to make it six points after two games. A win by Simba will see them opening a three point gap at the summit of the 20-team league. Simba opened the league season with a resounding 3-1 win over JKT Tanzania at the Uhuru Stadium on August 28th this year. On the other hand, Mtibwa Sugar who always give Simba a rough ride whenever they meet, are aiming to record their first victory of the season after losing 3-1 to Lipuli F C at Samora Stadium in Iringa in their league opener. It will be their second away match of this term knowing exactly that today’s game is important for them to get tangible results to get back on the track. Speaking yesterday after the team’s training session at the Uhuru Stadium, Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems said it will be a tough game against Mtibwa Sugar, because he said the Morogoro-based side has a crop of quality players. Regardless, the Belgian trainer said their main target is to collect maximum three points today and maintain their perfect start to the season. He said all players who featured for their national teams with an exception of Rwandese, Meddie Kagere, have joined the rest in the team. “Players came back from the national teams’ duties with smiling faces because Tanzania qualified, Rwanda qualified, Zambia and Kenya didn’t lose their friendly match… that is a good thing. I don’t have injuries and that is also important thing. “We are ready for tomorrow’s (today) second game of the league. Y ou know that every game is tough for us because every team want to beat Simba. We know that Mtibwa Sugar is a good team and we are aware that it will be a tough match. It will be up to us from the beginning to force and to make a good tempo and score as early as possible,” he said. Aussems said skipper, John Bocco and Brazilian striker Wilker da Silva are yet to regain full fitness and will be out of today’s match. He said they needed at least three weeks to recover fully. He also said that defender Paschal Wawa and attacker Deo Kanda will also miss today’s match due to minor injuries. “It seems that all other players are ready and available so it is ok for us. I talked with Meddie Kagere yesterday (Wednesday) he was well and I hope nothing will happen to him. We expected that he will be coming back this afternoon (yesterday) and will be in the group for tomorrow’s match because I have no strikers at all,” he noted. The coach said that Simba will need to solve current striking crisis when the January transfer window opens. “We will need to go shopping for a striker in January. When I was on leave in F rance before the pre-season I requested the leadership to get one or two more strikers because I said with three that is not enough you know. I said if anything happens to one of the strikers, we will be in trouble and unfortunately two strikers are injured so we are limited offensively. Simba versatile defender Erasto Nyoni said his side is ready for today’s showdown against Mtibwa Sugar. He also called for club supporters to come and cheer them throughout the game, saying their big presence usually motivates them. On his side, Mtibwa Sugar Head Coach, Zuber Katwila said nothing will stop them from collecting maximum points against Simba. “We are well prepared for this match and our target is to collect maximum points and nothing else. We respect Simba and we will play cautiously but attack them relentlessly,” Katwila said. Other top flight matches will be played during the weekend whereby on Saturday, Namungo F C will be at home--Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi hosting Singida United, JKT Tanzania will take on Lipuli F C at Isamuhyo ground located in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam, whereas Mbao F C will battle it out against neighbours Biashara United at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. The action continues on Sunday as Ndanda F C entertains Mwadui F C at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara, while Tanzania Prisons will be at their territory Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya confronting Ruvu Shooting. At CCM Kirumba, Alliance F C will host Kagera Sugar.