 ANDREW Albert netted a hat trick and Kelvin John scored once as Tanzania’s Ngorongoro Heroes handed Ethiopia a 4-0 blitz at FUFA Technical Centre Njeru in Uganda yesterday. Under the tutelage of Zuberi Katwila, the National Under-20 football team looked very superior to their opponents in attacking and defending sections, a situation that helped them stamp a voluminous victory yesterday. The players seemed to be tailor-made for victory courtesy of weeks of serious drills in the camp prior to the tournament’s kick off. Ten minutes of the cautious game didn’t produce realistic chances from either side. Hat-trick hero Andrew Albert Simchimba was the first to make an attempt in the 14th minute, but his effort went a few inches off target. Three minutes later in the 17th minute, Ngorongoro Heroes efforts were rewarded. It was Kelvin John who netted the opener after beating Ethiopia's defence for pace before firing home at the near post. Ethiopia nearly levelled matters in the 20th minute, but Ngorongoro Heroes goalkeeper Ally Salim Katoro made a fine save to deny Abel Negashe. Heroes added the second goal in the 37th minute through Andrew Albert Simchimba who completed Kelvin John’s assist. Heroes were leading 2-0 at the end of the first half. Heroes came strongly in the second half with series of well-planned raids and their efforts paid off in the 49th minute. It was Albert again who made it. In the 57th minute Ethiopia introduced Tsegab Yohannes and Adman Rashad for Biruk Mengashe and Yabsera Mulegea. Heroes made the first substitution in the 74th minute by bringing in Abdul Hamis Suleiman who replaced Gadafi Said. Just six minutes to stoppage time Heroes added the fourth through Albert to seal the tournament’s hat-trick. Ngorongoro Heroes are pooled in group B alongside compatriots Zanzibar, Ethiopia and Kenya. Ethiopia won the tournament in 2005. After yesterday’s Ngorongoro Heroes will face Kenya tomorrow at the same venue before winding up their group campaign against compatriots Zanzibar on Thursday. Zanzibar will also be in action today as they face Kenya at the same venue. This tournament which is funded by Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) will climax on October 5th this year. Eleven countries confirmed for this championship and these include hosts Uganda, Sudan, Eritrea, Djibouti, Kenya, Ethiopia, Zanzibar, Tanzania, Burundi South Sudan and Somalia. Starting XI Ally Salim Katoro, Israel Patrick Mwenda, Gastapha Saimon Rukomba, Dickson Nickson Job(c), Oscar Geoffrey Masai, Ally Hussein Msengi, Tepsi Evance Theonassy, Novatus Disnas Miroshi, Andrew Albert Simchimba, John Kelvin Pius, Gadaf Ramadhan Said Ethiopia: Yohannes Temesgen, Murad Abebeker, Eyob Matios, Yabsera Mulegea, Fuad Nesru(C), Muse Kabela, Biruk Mengashe, Abeayehu Hajiso, Eyob Alemayehu, Tamirat Silas, Abel Negashe.