THE government has been urged to strengthen control on access to means of suicide as global statistics indicate that close to 800,000 people die due to suicide every year. According to health experts, the public has a role to play in suicide prevention by assisting people who show symptoms of committing suicide, by holding private conversations with and advising them to seek medical assistance. Speaking in Dar es Salam yesterday during a symposium on Mental Health Awareness and Suicide Prevention, a psychiatrist at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), Dr Praxeda Swai, said that the government can control access to means of suicide by restricting access to firearms and illegal selling of medical drugs. “A person with intent to commit suicide can purchase a large dose of medical drugs without doctor’s prescription but there are some people who own firearms legally but poor storage in homes may lead to suicide,” Dr Swai said. She said there was also a need for conducting mental health checkups on people who use firearms in their daily activities to avoid incidents of suicide because some of them were facing various challenges in their lives which may lead into committing suicide. Dr Swai further said that suicide was a serious and complex public health problem for which there was no single cause or reason. “It is difficult to explain why some people decide to commit suicide while others in a similar or even worse situation do not,” she said. Dr Swai however said that suicide can be completely prevented, thus any warning signs or symptoms of suicide should not be ignored. She said some of the signs /symptoms of suicide included taking great risks that could lead to death such as driving extremely fast, talking or thinking about death often, displaying extreme mood swings, suddenly changing from very sad to very calm or happy. Others includes giving away important possessions, saying goodbye to friends and family, feeling unbearable pain , talking about being a burden to others , withdrawing from family and friends, changing eating or sleeping habits, talking about wanting to die or wanting to kill themselves , feeling empty, hopeless or having no reason to live. She said that according to the World Health Organization (WHO), suicide is the second leading cause of deaths among youth aged 15 to 29 and elders aged 75 and above. Over 78 per cent of global suicides occurred in low and middle income countries. Dr Swai said: “There was no single cause for suicide among youth but the group was facing a number of challenges which may lead them into committing suicide. “Most youth in this group are in adolescent age; they are also exposed to various things such as use of drugs, alcohol, and it is the age in which this group has so many questions in their minds, conflicts with family members and sometime maltreatment.”