MANY new faces are on the leaders board with debutants Namungo, Kagera Sugar and Lipuli b reathing fire at the neck of the defending champions Simba. It was a banner season opener, whose surprise package was Ruvu Shooting who shocked Young Africans with a 1-0 win, the loss placed the Dar es Salaam giants at the 17th position on the log after the end of the first round. The loss by Yanga was somehow a surprise results as many people believed that they were going to pocket vital three points after their superb away performance which saw them eliminating Botswana’s Township Rollers in CAF Champions League (CAF CL). However, as the final whistle sounded, it was the visitors who returned home with a full bag while their opponents will have to wait for the next match should they want to stage real resistance as far as the race towards championship is concerned. Ruvu Shooting win has placed them 9th on log just below the 8th placed Polisi Tanzania. The season opener’s misfortune also ravaged Biashara Mara who are bottom-placed after losing 2-0 to Kagera Sugar, Mtibwa Sugar, who are placed 19th after losing to Lipuli and, JKT Tanzania who are placed 18th following a 3-1 loss to the defending champions Simba in their league opener at the Uhuru Stadium on Sunday. Namungo who were promoted this season are so far the top placed newcomer while Polisi Tanzania who, who are also league debutants are placed 7th following their 3-1 win over Coastal Union in their campaign opener. At the middle of nowhere are Alliance FC and Mbao FC of Mwanza who shared spoils in their opener. They are joined with Mbeya City and Tanzania Prisons, who also fired blanks in their league’s opening match at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. Simba’s Meddie Kagera, the last season’s winner of the golden boot, has started well his title-defence campaign. He has snatched the lead again after scoring a brace in his team’s 3-1 win over JKT Tanzania. It was a positive start for defending champions who wants to retain the championship for the third time in a row and with their premature exit in the CAF CL competition, it means they will direct all their energy towards the VPL as well as the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) respectively. Immediately after the game, Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems could not help but showered his praises on Kagere saying he always has a goal sight. He however said in the last fifteen minutes of the game, his charges played like children as they conceded a late goal something he said should not have been entertained by a professional team like Simba. The VPL continues on September 14th with exploding fixtures as Mbao will host Biashara United at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza while JKT Tanzania will entertain Lipuli FC as Namungo face Singida United at Majaliwa Stadium. On September 15th, Alliance will face off Kagera Sugar, Tanzania Prisons will play Ruvu Shooting while Ndanda take on Mwadui FC. One match will be held on September 17th involving Simba against Mtibwa Sugar while onSeptember 18th, Coastal Union will be at home against KMC whereas Mbeya City will welcome Young Africans at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya before Polisi Tanzania taking on Azam FC.