TO any other person, 60 could denote a natural number after 59 and before 61. However, to Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), this number has a special meaning as far as conservation and people’s lives are concerned. Before the establishment of Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) several years were spent to negotiate the terms and conditions for the Maasai to move out of the Serengeti into the 8,292 square-kilometre area. After splitting from Great Serengeti Ecosystem in 1959, the authority was established for three main objectives namely: Conservation of natural and cultural resources, promotion of tourism and to safeguard the interests of the indigenous residents practising pastoralism. The authority is also duty bound to promote tourism and protect the interests of pastoralist and hunter-gatherer communities. Sixty years on, the authority is taking stock of what it has achieved so far. According to NCAA Manager for Tourism Services, Paul Fissoo, milestones based on the objectives cannot be mentioned without appreciating national and international recognitions award to NCA and NCAA by various bodies such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco), World Heritage Site in 1979, Man and Biosphere Reserve in 1981, Mixed World Heritage Site in 2015 and GeoPark in 2017, as well as one of Africa’s seven natural wonders. “NCA remains to be one of the pristine conservation areas in Tanzania, probably second to none in Africa in terms of species diversity and abundance, the presence of endangered species such as rhinos and increasing number of wild animals, the eradication of commercial hunting and lumbering are among the milestones,” according to Mr Fissoo. The sheer number of attractions found within the NCA has seen tourists and prominent personalities flocking to the area to enjoy the beauty of the scenery, including the crater, which is revered for the Big Five and Olduvai Gorge, one of the most important paleoanthropological sites in the world, where Dr Louis Leakey and his wife Mary discovered a human skull of what came to be known as earliest man. Famous people, who have already toured the area, according to Mr Fissoo, include the 42nd US President Bill Clinton, the Queen of Denmark Magrethe II, Rev Jesse Jackson, former US human rights activist and Hollywood film stars, Chris Tucker and John Wayne. A week ago, a group of inspectors general of police (IGPs), from 14 countries under the Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Cooperation Organisation (EAPCCO), who were attending the 21st EAPCCO General Assembly in Arusha, took their day to visit NCA and couldn’t hide their excitement about their trip to the area .“Tanzania is revered for its rich wildlife, flora and fauna and this is partly due to its unmatched system of protecting its natural resources,” noted Sudanese IGP, Adil Mohammed Ahmed Bashir. Tourism and revenue statistics indicate that the annual exponential growth and its contribution to government coffers through Value Added Tax (VAT), dividend and statutory levies are a clear testimony of efforts made so that NCAA commands a considerable market share in the area. In the past fiscal year, for instance, NCAA collected 143bn/- revenue from tourist arrivals in the area. The whopping amount was cashed in through domestic tourists, who numbered 275,500 compared to non-residents, whose number stood at 426,535. In the 2017/18 fiscal year, 644,155 tourists, both foreign and local, toured NCA, earning the authority a staggering 129bn/-. According to Mr Fissoo, such figures speak volumes of NCA’s conservation efforts. “NCA has a number of invaluable attractions ranging from natural, historical to cultural resources that we are endowed with and entrusted to conserve and protect on behalf of all of us for the benefit of present and future generations. We have made commendable efforts to see these attractions are conserved through conservation awareness campaigns, anti-poaching patrols, corporate social responsibility initiatives, engaging scientists and researchers, incorporating indigenous traditional knowledge as well as collaborating with national and international conservation bodies,” says Mr Fissoo. He adds that the presence of high diversity and abundance of flora and fauna, undisturbed cultural resources, admirable history of the people, and richness of the indigenous Maasai, Hadzabe and Datoga cultures are among the clear testimonies that NCAA is determined to conserve and maintain the area’s attractions. Recently, the authority was entrusted to the custodian of new additional sites, which include Amboni caves of Tanga and Mbozi Meteorite in Mbeya, Mumba rock paintings at Eyasi and Engaruka stone ruins and Engaresero footprints. “This shows how committed we are to protecting, conserving and developing natural and cultural resources for tourism and community benefit. We have been entrusted by the government to undertake this noble endeavour to see these cultural resources meet present and future generation aspirations and contribute to the knowledge base and revenue important for national development and improvement of people’s livelihoods,” he explains. Apart from conservation, NCAA has also endeavoured in improving the livelihoods of pastoral communities coexisting with wild animals in the area. Through Ngorongoro Pastoralists Council (NPC), the authority has in the past 60 years heavily invested in the development of pastoralist communities, including the provision of primary to university education in and outside the country. The authority issues to pastoralist communities 8bn/- annually, where 3bn/- goes to support NPC activities, while the remaining is directed towards the welfare of Maasai pastoralists.