DEPUTY Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Damas Ndumbaro is one of the participants in this year’s Chief Executives Officers (CEOs), Retreat Golf tournament in Zanzibar. Ndumbaro presence is likely to spice up the competition challenge in the tomorrow’s tee off. Ndumbaro is among about 50 golfers from around the global meet in Zanzibar for the annual open golf event that draw CEOs, business owners and diplomats. The Sea Cliff Club manager Elias Soka told the ‘Daily News’ from Zanzibar yesterday that preparation for the 18-hole tournament has been completed and everything is in place. The par 72 course located very close to exotic shoreline of Indian Ocean, will be brightly coloured with the men and ladies competing for the event’s top prizes. According to the draw, Ndumbaro will tee off first at the fourth tee in the four ball group. He has been drawn together with Paul Mungai, Mark Ongom and Iddah Kwanyah. Ndumbaro told the ‘Daily News’ that he is ready for the battle though didn’t have enough time to practice. “I will be there to beat the course. It is true that other responsibilities kept me away from golf course for sometimes, but that is not an excuse,” he said. Soka said hefty prizes will be there for the overall winners and the winners of various categories. He also said that will be awards for the nearest to the pin at no. 9 and longest drive for hole number 14. He added that: “We have three remained slots for those who are yet to register. Please join us at the CEO golf event. The tee off will start in the morning followed by an exclusive evening at the club house, prize giving ceremony and plenty of entertainments.” This year’s CEOs sponsors include; Turkish Airline, Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Zanzibar, STIHL, Auric Air Service Ltd, Lonagro Tanzania, ZMMI, Zanzi Resort, Sea Cliff Hotel Dar es Salaam, Sea Cliff Court Hotel & Luxury Apartment, The Safari Blue, Zanzibar Parasailing, Cape Town Fish Market and The Butcher Shop Dar es Salaam. The sole golf course in Zanzibar was officially opened by Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein in February, 2015 and in 2018 it won the best World’s Best Par 3 Golf Course Awards.