ENERGY Minister Medard Kalemani has ordered immediate review of natural gas prices and approval of positive rates to both government and investors. Dr Kalemani gave Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Petroleum Upstream Regulatory Authority (PURA), Attorney General Office and experts from the ministry a 30-day ultimatum to finish the assignment. Currently, natural gas sells at between 4.7 and 7.72 US dollars per unit. Minister Kalemani issued the ultimatum on Wednesday during his tour of Goodwill Ceramic Company Limited and Lodhia Steel Industries Limited in Coast region’s Mkuranga District. The minister gave the directive amid mounting complains from investors, particularly Goodwill and Lodhia, over the natural gas prices, are alarmingly escalating, adding up to the costs of production. “The government is determined to create a friendlier environment for investors to attract more investments…I direct authorities responsible for price setting to instantly start reviewing the prices and come up with suitable charges for both sides,” he stated. In the review, the minister instructed the authorities also to make comparison between Tanzania’s prices and other countries’. He, however, explained that there were price variations from one place to another, saying the technology applied during explorations and cost of transportation remained the major factor. Minister Kalemani also launched the use of natural gas in Lodhia Steel Industries, revealing that as of now, there are 48 natural gas powered industries in the country. The natural gas uses, according to the minister, have reduced operational costs by between 50 and 30 per cent. He hinted that the ministry also plans to conduct special review on prices charged on natural gas to industry owners to ensure rapid growth in the use of the resource in the country. Dr Kalemani instructed relevant authorities to have accurate figures on the number of natural gas powered industries and amount of their demand between now and the year end. Lodhia Steel Industries Ltd Director Sailesh Pandit disclosed that the investors have reduced operational costs by 30 per cent since they started using natural gas. In 2017, TPDC announced plans to draft a master plan for infrastructure to supply natural gas to industries and households in selected regions. Tanzania has 57 trillion cubic feet (tcf) proven but largely undeveloped natural gas reserves and expects to reap close to 5 billion US dollars annually in gas exports through the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant.