KAGERA Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime has boasted his team will upset Simba SC in an eagerly hair raising encounter to be played tomorrow at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Maxime told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that they have the capacity to repeat their 2018 feat, where they beat Simba twice 2-1 in Bukoba and again 1-0 in Dar es Salaam. “ My players are in top form. We are well prepared to play Simba. Football fans should turn up in thousands to cheer our team. We promise them to see a well-balanced match,” he said. Kagera Sugar dislodged Simba at the summit of the Mainland Premier League after beating Mbao FC at the CCM Stadium in Mwanza over the weekend. Midfielder Awesu Awesu netted the solitary goal in the 38th minute to hand Head Coach Maxime, third straight victory away. Kagera Sugar lads maintained their perfect start of the season and have now posted maximum nine points from as many matches. In their opening match of the season, Kagera Sugar beat Mara’s Biashara United 2-0 at the Karume Stadium in Musoma before registering a 2-1 win over host Alliance FC of Mwanza at the Nyamagana Stadium. The victory saw Kagera Sugar leapfrogging defending champions Simba to the top of the 20-team pile. Kagera Sugar players arrived in Bukoba on Monday from Mwanza and have been training hard at the Kaitaba Stadium. Simba, on the other hand, were expected to arrive in Bukoba later today. The Msimbazi Reds have received a major boost ahead of the match, as Head Coach Patrick Aussems confirmed that key striker Meddie Kagere has shaken off the injury scare and will be available for the clash. Initially, it was reported that Kagere, who was the last season top scorer with 23 goals had suffered a minor knock in training and was likely to miss the game against Kagera Sugar. However, the reports posted on the club’s Facebook account had it that after undergoing scanning, it was revealed that the injury was minor and the player could feature in the game. “ Kagere will certainly be part of the match on Thursday (tomorrow) and this is good for us because we now have Wilker Da Silva also available after being out for almost two months,” Aussems said.