AZAM FC Head Coach, Ettiene Ndairagije said his side will approach positively the second leg match against Triangle United in CAF Confederation Cup set on September 28th in Zimbabwe. Following a 1-0 loss in the first leg tie held at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam on Sunday, the home team now face a must win task during the next match as the only guarantee to take them through to the next stage of the competition. The Zimbabwe based side netted the winner in the 34th minute of the first half via its skipper, Ralph Kawondera and have a job to defend it well at their turf should they desire to progress further into the contest. A tricky ball was played inside Azam’s penalty box which saw defenders failing to clear it to safety thereby awarding Kawondera a golden chance to stab it into the yawning net and see his side stepping one foot into the next round. But, despite the defeat, Ndairagije expressed optimism that they will do what it takes to snatch vital victory from the foreign venue. “As you know, we are still in the team rebuilding process such that today’s (Sunday) performance has given us a lesson on the areas we need to improve to do well in the approaching encounter,” he said. Moreover, the Burundian trainer revealed that his charges played under big pressure with the mentality to score first something he said created lack of coordination between midfielders and strikers. “In most cases, positive results come from good performance that is why we ought to start early preparations for us to do well away in Zimbabwe,” he said. Also, the coach defended his decision of calling to bench Shaaban Chilunda just few minutes after being introduced into the match saying he picked a knock which rendered him to fail executing the responsibilities he was tasked to do. “I wanted him (Chilunda) to play at the center of the striking force but after picking the slight injury, he was afraid to compete for the ball with Triangle United defenders hence I had to pick him out because time was running away,” said coach. Asked whether he knew their opponents well before facing them, Ndairagije conceded that they had idea about them only that their preparations was not hundred percent complete. On his part, Triangle United coach, Taurai Mangwiro said the game is still on despite winning the first round battle. “We played against a tactically sound team which gave us much pressure but our defense was resolute enough to contain them,” he said. Adding; His side has never lost a continental cup match at their own venue and that they have never lost any match after scoring first such that they want to continue with that good record