THE government is in the final stages of setting up an international tea auction, a move that is geared towards facilitating the highest possible prices and promoting local brands. Minister for Industries and Trade Innocent Bashungwa says the auction to be centred in Dar es Salaam is expected to be set in motion before the end of this month. He cited the strategy as being one of the government’s initiatives to ensure that cash crops attract very good prices as well as reliable markets. Mr Bashungwa said the tea trading facility would both ensure that all locally produced tea was sold within the country, and spare farmers and businesspersons of the hassles of travelling to, and selling the product in Mombasa, Kenya. He further explained that, a task force comprising the Tanzania Tea Board, Tanzania Mercantile Exchange, Warehouse Receipts Regulatory Board, Tea Association of Tanzania and Tanzania Trade Development Authority had been formed to superintend over the facility’s formation. He told Parliament here yesterday that preparations were expected to be completed by the end of this month, so that all locally grown tea was auctioned internally. The minister said the move would eliminate costs that transporting the product outside the country would entail, to enable farmers gain from higher prices for raw tea. The Tanzania Tea Board (TBT) organised a stakeholders meeting in April this year to discuss challenges facing farmers and its plan to have indicative price for the cash crop. The stakeholders agreed on the indicative price issuing, endorsing 315sh/- per kilogramme of green tea leaves for the 2019 season. He was responding to a question from Mr Fredy Mwakibete (Busokelo-CCM) focused on what strategies for reliable markets for tea growers were. The government recently announced plans to raise tea production over the next five years, and boost its industrialisation plan. The Tea Board of Tanzania (TBT) targets five regions - Iringa, Njombe, Mbeya, Tanga and Kagera. Currently, Tanzania’s tea is sold at the Mombasa auction. TBT chairman Steven Mlote said the country was establishing sales warehouses in Dar es Salaam for bulk tea storage before introducing an auction in Tanzania. Tanzania tea sold through Mombasa auction is estimated at between 5,000 and 8,000 tonnes per year, depending on the harvest season and weather in major production areas. TBT aims to raise tea production by helping farmers to penetrate domestic and foreign markets, Mr Mlote said. The Ministry of Agriculture seeks to increase the current cultivated land from 22,721 hectares to 25,000 hectares. Some 11,272 hectares are big estates managed by big companies and 11,449 hectares are owned by international scale farmers who constitute half of tea growers in Tanzania. Improvement of extension services, training institutes, supply of quality seeds, distribution of pesticides and insecticides are among the major government measures.