THE Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal by two police officers and three civilians who were sentenced to 30 years imprisonment for armed robbery. The five appellants who lost the appeal are Mbaruku Hamisi, Elinazi Eliabu, alias Mshana, Amri Kihenye, alias Amri, Police Constable (PC), James and Sergeant, Juma Mussa. Justices; Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Barke Sahel rejected the grounds advanced by the appellants that they were not properly identified and that the offence of armed robbery was not proved. They pointed in their judgment delivered in Mbeya Registry recently that an important element of the offence of robbery is the use of force against a victim for purposes of stealing or retaining the property after stealing. “Guided by the principle of section 278A of the Penal Code, we have scrutinised the charge, and reviewed the evidence; we are satisfied that all ingredients of the offence of armed robbery were disclosed in the charge sheet and proved by the prosecution,” the justices ruled. They recalled from the evidence of one of the victims who said he was threatened by a machete and that, therefore, the appellants used force against him before stealing the properties. In regard to the issue of identification, they noted that the appellants were arrested in the course of a hot pursuit and that the victims were robbed at around 17:30 hours, the sun at that time had not yet set; It was broad daylight. The justices also noted from the evidence that immediately after they were robbed, the victims started to chase the appellants with their car and in that pursuit three police officers joined the pursuit where they managed to arrest all the robbers. “In the end as there was no substance in the appeal, we see no reason to interfere with the concurrent findings of both lower courts of convicting and upholding the conviction of the appellants and on sentencing the appellants to a term of 30 years imprisonment. The appeal is dismissed,” they declared. In the Resident Magistrate’s Court of Mbeya, the appellants were arraigned and convicted of armed robbery. Upon conviction, they were each sentenced to a term of 30 years imprisonment. Dissatisfied with the conviction and sentence, they unsuccessfully appealed to the High Court. The robbery took place on January 3, 2014 at Kawetele area within the city and region of Mbeya. It was an account of one of the victims that he was instructed by his boss to transport Pasupuleti Sreethi and Morivenkasuppa Narayanapua to Chunya. They started their journey at around 15:30 hours. They first passed by Gapco petrol station to fuel the car, then they went to Mwanjelwa to buy two blankets and finally started to go to Chunya. When they reached Kawetele, which is 25 kilometers away, they saw two motor vehicles on the road. The victims overtook the first car which was a Toyota GX 100 but when they wanted to overtake the other car that had a flat tyre, which was white in colour and parked in the middle of the road, a person appeared and stopped them. It was around 17:30 hours before sunset. They managed to identify the person who stopped them to be Sergeant Mussa, who was with PC James. Sergeant Mussa asked if the victims had any wheel spanner or a jack, or a screw driver or a pliers, but they replied that they had none of the items. While one of the victims was struggling to pass, Sergeant Mussa handcuffed him and he was dragged out of his car and switched off the engine. Then, Hamis and PC James transferred him to one of their cars while Sergeant Mussa remained with the other victim. Then a car appeared and was heading to Mbeya from Chunya. Sergeant Mussa stopped it and asked for a spanner which he was given. While he was changing the flat tyre, one of the victims tried to raise an alarm but Hamis threatened him with a machete, declaring that he would kill him. After changing the flat tyre, the car from Chunya continued with its journey. The appellants turned around their cars, off loaded the luggage from the victims’ car and put them into their car. The appellant later left the area at high speed before being arrested at a police road block.