TANZANIA has topped the list of 10 countries in sub-Saharan Africa that have made impressive gains in reducing poverty among their populations, World Bank (WB) report shows. According to the report published by the World Bank Data Blog on Thursday, the country has recorded the fastest pace in reducing extreme poverty in sub-Saharan Africa. “It reduced extreme poverty from 86 per cent in 2000 to 49 per cent in 2011, cutting its extreme poverty rate by 3.2 percentage points per year. This is about three times the pace of the average country in the region,” notes the report, whose data has been extracted from the September 2019 version of the PovcalNet database. The report also notes that Chad and the Republic of Congo rank second and third as they lowered their poverty rates by 3.1 and 2.7 percentage points per year respectively during the period. However, the report shows that more than half of the world’s extreme poor live in sub-Saharan Africa. Yet, several African countries have recently made impressive gains in reducing poverty. It further reveals that poverty in Africa is heavily concentrated in a few countries. “Whereas, over 70 per cent of the region’s poor people live in just 10 countries, including Nigeria, the DRC, Ethiopia, Tanzania Kenya, Madagascar, Kenya, Mozambique, Uganda and Malawi, fortunately, of the 10 countries with the largest number of poor, five are among the fastest poverty reducers,” the report shows. They are Tanzania, Chad, Congo Republic, Burkina Faso, the DRC, Ethiopia, Namibia, Mozambique, Rwanda and Uganda. “Overall during this period, the 10 countries have combined to lift over 13 million Africans out of extreme poverty. “Monetary poverty in sub-Saharan Africa is based on household consumption and only represents one of many aspects of people’s economic well-being,” notes the report. The World Bank’s Multidimensional Poverty Measure (MPM) is an index that combines monetary poverty with additional welfare measures. The shares are primary-school-age children in school, and the share of the population with access to electricity. Generally, the top reducers of extreme poverty have also seen progress in improving these two non-monetary measures of well-being, as observed in the data.