TANZANIA has suspended its national airline’s flights to Johannesburg pending written assurance of passengers’ safety from Pretoria due to deadly xenophobic attacks in South Africa. Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) will not flyto O.R. Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg unless there is written guarantee from Pretoria on the safety of passengers. South Africa has for the past few days been embroiled in xenophobic attacks against mainly Africans working and doing business in the country. The assaults have received backlash from many countries, with wananchi retaliating by destructing South African businesses in some countries, especially Nigeria. Works, Transport and Communication Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe explained yesterday that passengers who had already booked flights with the national carrier will be transferred to other airlines. “The impounded ATCL aircraft in South Africa returned in the country on Wednesday night and wasscheduled to resume flights to Johannesburg but we have suspended flights on the route unless we get assurance on the safety of our passengers,” Engineer Kamwelwe said. The minister, who was speaking during the official launch of restructured Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA), noted on the other hand that the team of legal experts in Tanzania is contemplating to file charges for compensation for the time that the aircraft was impounded in South Africa. The aircraft was inspected when it landed at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) and was found to be in good condition, Engineer Kamwelwe explained, noting that it will continue plying other routes. “The pace at which ATCL made a come back in the industry has sent shockwaves to other airlines. Our plan is flying worldwide,” he explained. South Africa’s Gauteng Lower Division Court in Johannesburg had on August 21, this year, ordered the seizure of Airbus A220-300 aircraft after businessman Hermanus Steyn obtained a court order. But, the Tanzanian government on Wednesday won the case against the seizure at the same court and the aircraft was flown back in the country on the same day. Judge Twala of the High Court of South Africa Gauteng Local Division set aside the August 21, 2019 dated seizure order, granting an application by Tanzania for lifting the ruling that was issued ex-parte, without involving the government. The judge ruled against the businessman and ordered him to pay all the costs for prosecuting the application before the South African court, including the costs of hiring two counsels. Speaking after the verdict, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Dr Damas Ndumbaro said in considering the application, the court allowed one of the grounds that had been presented by Tanzanian team of lawyers in South Africa. Meanwhile, procurement procedures for purchase of three modern weather radars aimed at improving efficiency of climatic reports by TMA have been completed, the government announced yesterday. Minister Kamwelwe made the declaration in the city at the official launch of the restructured meteorological agency. Tanzania currently has two radars in Mwanza and Dar es Salaam against the total requirement of seven. The procurement of the three more gadgets will bring the total number to five, with the latest installed in Mtwara, Mbeya and Kigoma regions. “The government has been supporting TMA to improve its operations owing to the fact that weather services are central to all sectors of the economy. These reports are also important for mitigating likely weather disasters,” he explained. The minister explained that through the Tanzania Meteorological Authority Act of 2019, the scope of the country’s weather agency has been expanded to boost efficiency through issuance of climatic reports and regulating the sector. TMA Director General Dr Agnes Kijazi said that accuracy of weather reports issued by the authority has progressively improved from 75 to 96 per cent. She noted further that the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) has issued certificates recognising the accuracy of reports issued at two weather recording centres Bukoba and Songea.