A FISHERMAN’S love to fish is inexplicable. Despite capsizing in the Indian Ocean for at least 15 times in the past 26 years, he never quitted this awarding activity. Mr Haji Ally, who is 48 years old and a resident of Bagamoyo, is a fisherman in the district. Like other fishermen in the district, he engages in small-scale fishing to supply fish to the district and partly to Dar es Salaam and Dodoma regions. Fishing is a risky job, particularly for small-scale fishermen, who use poor fishing tools, like small boats, which sometimes, cannot withstand strong winds and waves. Like other fishermen of his calibre, Mr Ally possesses a wooden fishing boat. With it, he says, he has escaped death at least 15 times, thanks to his swimming skills. “In most cases, I was involved in accidents when the boat capsized due to winds and I used my swimming skills to save myself. When a boat capsizes, we (fishermen), normally wave a piece of cloth using one hand, while swimming to ask for help from colleagues. I swim like a fish, I may swim waiting for help even for 24 hours,” he explains. In his boat, there is no life-saving jacket or floating buoy. He only trusts in his swimming skills. Despite threating circumstances, Mr Ally says he does think of other jobs. “Fishing is my only activity, which I never even thought of quitting. It earns me sufficient income to maintain my family,” Mr Ally, who has been fishing for the past 26 years, says. A father of four, Mr Ally has built a six-room house using earnings from fishing and pays school fees for his children. “With my education level I don’t think that I can get a job that will pay me like what I earn from fishing,” he says. In good days, Mr Ally may earn even 80,000/- a day after selling fish through an auction at a fish market situated in Old Town in the district. He saves part of the money for buying new fish nets after every three months. One net is sold at 2m/-. As the Coast Region is expected to host the industrial exhibition and a business forum from October 1-7, this year, he asks for access to soft loans from financial institutions for him to buy fishing gear for efficient fishing. Some of the financial institutions that will participate in the exhibition and the forum are CRDB Bank and TIB Bank as among the sponsors. During the forum, the banks will explain about their products and how they can support investors, traders and entrepreneurs to invest in Coast Region. The events are jointly organised by the Coast Regional Commissioner’s Office, Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), Ltd and the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade). At least 500 industries are expected to participate in the events that will to take place in Kibaha District. Bagamoyo District campaigns for commercial fishing in its jurisdiction in the Indian Ocean, targeting to attract fish processing industries in the district. District Fisheries Officer Anthonia Mpemba notes that there is the potential for fish processing industries in the district, but the challenge is lack of large-scale fishing. “All fishermen here engage in fishing for domestic uses… we wish we had commercial fishing to utilise marine resources and feed processing industries,” Ms Mpemba says. The district is upbeat that fishing processing plants will further boost its revenue, learning from the current upward trend of the contribution of the sector to the revenue from the district’s own sources. Statistics indicate that revenue from a local fishing market has increased during the past five years. Revenue collection increased from 56m/-in 2012/13 to 116m/-in the 2017/18 fiscal year. “The revenue has increased due to improved performance of the sector and its proper management,” Ms Mpemba adds. According to her, fishermen depend on Dar es Salaam and Dodoma for the fish market. Ms Mpemba calls on stakeholders to support small-scale fishermen in the district and enable them to acquire better fishing gear that will enable them to fish in deep sea to have big catches. The banks, for instance, could offer soft loans to fishermen so that they could buy fishing gear such as fishing boats. Most of the fishermen in Bagamoyo use locally-made fishing boats. She said to empower fishermen in the district, the authorities plan to construct a new fish market in Bagamoyo Old Town. At national level, Tanzania is blessed with fish resources from marine, freshwater, riverine and wetland species. By utilising these resources, the sector provides the direct employment of about 183,800 fishers. More than 4,000,000 people such as boat builders, fish processors, net and engine repairers are indirectly employed. Reports from the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries say that the sector provides income for local people from foreign earnings, food for coastal and upcountry communities and also contributes to GDP (2.4 per cent in 2015). This makes the country one of the leading fishing nations in Africa, ranking in the top 10 in terms of total catches and fish production. However, assessment of the fisheries management performance is scanty. Fish resources in Tanzania are exploited using an open access principle through a licensing system and community participation in fisheries management. The ministry says an increase in human population does not match the rate of exploitation for the fisheries resources, thus exerting high pressure on fish species. There is also a problem of unsustainable fishing. Reports show that fish resources in Tanzania are not harvested according to the maximum sustainable yield principle and this has been exacerbated by increased exposure of the sector to international trade. Therefore, the fisheries sector in the country needs both socioeconomic and technological transformation based on advanced principles of sound economic development.