RESIDENTS of Mirumba village who attempted to drive a group of adult elephants to the Village Executive Officer (VEO)'s office so that they could be compensated for crops destroyed by the animals are lucky to escape with their lives after the furious jumbos turned against them. Mirumba village is located at Kibaoni Ward in Mpimbwe, Mlele District, Katavi Region. The score of courageous villagers which included both men and women were seen attempting to drive the herd of about 20 jumbos by creating a cacophony using tins and yelling, but the whole exercise backfired after the massive animals violent and tried to attack them. A cross–section of Mirumba villagers interviewed by the Sunday News at Mirumba village recently said the incident occurred recently but no causalities were reported as most of them managed to flee after the elephants turned aggressive. The villagers said the jumbos wreaked havoc at the village on the material day before they decided to direct them towards the local government office, but the attempt failed miserably. One of the villagers, Peter Masanja told this paper that a herd of 20 elephants invaded the precinct shortly after midnight and crossed the Sumbawanga– Kibaoni road towards the village. He said that at around 8:00 am, they saw them returning to their sanctuary, and it was at that juncture that the villagers attempted to herd them towards the office of the local government so that they could be compensated for their crops which were badly destroyed by the animals. Mirumba Village Chairman, Mr Patrick Kambimbaya confirmed the incident, saying no causalities were reported apart from destruction on the crops caused by the stray jumbos. The herd of jumbos is reported to have invaded Wampembe area at Mirumba village, wreaking havoc as the wild animals escaped from Katavi National Park. Across section of Wampembe residents interviewed by this paper admitted that currently they are facing a shortage of food due to destruction of crops made by the elephants in their farms. Contacted for comment, the Rukwa Regional Senior Wildlife Officers, Mr Nicholaus Mchome said that the elephants migrate seasonally according to availability of food and water. "Memory plays an important role during this time for the animals, because they remember locations of water supplies along migration routes" he added.