TANZANIA is one of the leading countries in Sub Saharan African countries in curbing corruption since President John Magufuli ascended to the top seat. The remark was made by the Acting Director General of Preventing and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Brigadier Gen John Mbungo, during the African Union Advisory Board on Corruption (AUABC) sensitization workshop held in Dar es salaam recently. He said that, according to national and international reports, the government was earnestly focused on the mission, one of the strategies being earnest implementation of laws geared towards addressing the problem. He said PCCB has hosted five members from the African Union Advisory board on corruption who came to the country to assess how Tanzania was implementing the African Union’s anti-corruption pact. “From 9 to 13 of July, we hosted five AUABC members who came to asses Tanzania on how the country is implementing African Union Convention on preventing and Combating Corruption (AUCPCC) which was signed in 2003. Gen Mbungo remarked: “We are good ...and we are in a good position in the Sub Saharan Africa region in preventing and combating corruption. The evaluation has revealed that the fifth phase government under President Magufuli is in the forefront in fighting against corruption.” According to Gen Mbungo, Tanzania signed and rectified African Union Convention on preventing and Combating Corruption (AUCPCC) in July 2003. He explained that each member country is obliged to implement five main objectives together with an evaluation of the way the convention is being implemented. He mentioned some of the objectives as promoting and strengthening systems for the prevention, investigation and imposition of sanctions as well as the elimination of corruption in member states. Others are to maintain relationships among members and coordinating policies and legal systems on combating and preventing corruption in member states. “This is the first time for Tanzania to be evaluated on the implementation of the African Union convention on the prevention and combating of corruption. We expected the evaluation to be very good since our country puts much efforts in preventing and combating corruption for the development of the nation,” he noted