THE government has expressed its readiness to cooperate with the Polish government in developing the water sector in the country, especially in improving sanitation services. The Director of Project Preparations, Coordination and Delivery Unit in the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, Engineer, Doricia Mlashani said that the cooperation will be beneficial to Tanzania since Poland has advanced in water and sewerage infrastructure. Eng. Mlashani was speaking during a visit by a Polish delegation to Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA), Headquarters on Thursday. The Polish mission is in the country to deliberate on areas of cooperation in the water sector. The delegation visited among other areas Tuangoma sanitation scheme in Kigamboni and Lower Ruvu Plant in Bagamoyo, Coast Region. Eng. Mlashani said that the mission will meet with the government and water authorities to deliberate on areas of cooperation. “Although we are still in initial stages to see how we can cooperate, but we are thinking of engaging them in supporting sanitation services because we have not done enough in this area,” she said. She said that sanitation services in Tanzania is at about 18 percent, noting that the situation was a major reason for identifying sewerage water management as one of the possible areas of cooperation. Eng. Mlashani said that her ministry intends to improve sewerage infrastructure so that they can also generate power from the waste. DAWASA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Cyprian Luhemeja said that the visit by the Polish delegation was an opportunity for Tanzanian experts to share knowledge and experience on how they can improve, not only in water services but also wastewater management. He said that despite efforts being undertaken by his authority to improve water and sanitation services, it was still facing a challenge of technology. Meanwhile, DAWASA Off Grid Sanitation Coordinator, Charles Makoye said that plans were underway to construct more decentralized waste water treatment facilities and simplified sewerage systems in order to move the services closer to the people. “The construction of these systems is part of efforts being undertaken to minimize the distance from where the wastewater is produced to the collection points,” he said. He said a total of 50 decentralized waste water treatment facilities were expected to be constructed in a five year project being implemented through support from World Bank. Mr Makoye said that some of the areas in which the facilities will be constructed includes Kigamboni, Chanika, Mtoni, Makongo, Kawe Ukwamani, Kurasini, Temeke and Chamazi.