PRESIDENT John Magufuli has commended the government of China for its sustained good cooperation with Tanzania, including its support and investments in the country. The Head of State expressed his gratitude to the President of China Xi Jinping in Dar es Salam yesterday, during a brief ceremony to hand over 40 vehicles from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF). President Magufuli, who is also the Commander-inChief of the Armed Forces, said that besides supporting Tanzania in various social services, defence, security and infrastructure , China was a which will be exported to China where there was a high demand for the cash crop. President Magufuli requested Lieutenant General Shao Yuanming, who leading country in terms of investments in Tanzania with 723 projects worth 13.581tr/- which have generated 87,126 jobs. He said that the cooperation could be further strengthened by TPDF and PLA through the construction of a cashew nut processing factory with a capacity of processing 200,000 tonnes of cashew nuts per year. President Magufuli added that the move will help to add value to Tanzania cashews represented PLA during the handing over of the vehicles and the Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania Wang Ke, to convey his appreciations to President Xi Jinping for a continued good cooperation and the plea for the construction of a factory for processing cashew nuts. He also expressed his gratitude to China for donating 40 vehicles to TPDF which he said, would strengthen the performance of the armed forces. He also requested PLA to assist in securing a big airplane which would accommodate army personnel and equipment. “The handing over of these vehicles demonstrates again the good cooperation between the two countries; we commend China for various forms of support to our country; China has been the main stakeholder in trade to our country … it is also assisting in tourism, For example, we are expecting to receive 10,000 tourists from China this year,” he said. For his part, Lieutenant General Yuanming commended President Magufuli for attending the handing over event and his continued cooperation with China, including military cooperation. He said that PLA will continue to cooperate with TPDF . Chief of Defence Forces General V enance Mabeyo identified various areas in which TPDF has benefited through its cooperation with PLA as construction of a military training centre at Mapinga in Bagamoyo at the cost of 67bn/- , rehabilitation of Ngerengere Airport which cost 137.63bn/- and the second phase construction of National Defence College in Dar es Salaam which is expected to cost 57bn/- . He added that PLA was finalising preparations for construction of TPDF headquarters in Dodoma.