EFFORTS are underway to eradicate poaching in the country under a vigorous campaign that is scheduled for launching early next year. The government through the Nation’s Taskforce Against Poaching (NTAP) is preparing zero poaching campaign by 2019- 2024, which will be launched together with NTAP by January next year. Addressing reporters in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday evening, Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla said efforts to curb illegal wildlife harvesting like poaching were yielding fruits. He made the statement following a successful joint operation by state security agencies at Chamazi Saku on the outskirts of the city, in which 339 piecesand 74 complete elephant tusks worth over 4bn/- were impounded. Dr Kigwangala said six notorious criminals linked to the looting of natural resources, including two government officials the police were arrested over accusations of aiding the poaching syndicate. The minister named the arrested suspects as Hassan Likwena famously known as Nyoni, Oliva Mchua, Bushiri Likwena, Haidary Sharif, Amani Kavishe and Mwita Mateo, withholding naming the police officers. “This is not a one day operation, we have been following up these criminals for years since 2015 when we started employing intelligence led operations. We have been successful and today we announce the capture of the notorious poaching master, Hassan Shabani famously known as Nyoni who is the owner of the illegal trophies that we have seized,” said Dr Kigwangala. He said the arrest of Nyoni signals the end of the poaching syndicate and ultimately the end of illegal trade in wildlife products. “Since 2015, we have impounded 500 guns, with 84 of them being military operation weapons and 33,000 bullets… this is a major achievement and effective this year, we will develop a strategy towards zero acts of poaching by 2024,” said the minister. He vowed that by 2024, there will be no poaching business, declaring war to all criminals who will be found in illegal possession of any animal parts or unregistered weapons. The minister said that despite efforts by the government authorities, there are still some challenges in curbing poaching, citing increased demand for government trophies in the illegal export market. “We want to join efforts in ensuring the illegal wildlife activities remain history in Tanzania. Our special task force against poaching has done a good job since the campaign was launched. The zero poaching campaign by 2019- 2024 will help to combat illegal poaching in the country,” he said. The minister called on wildlife stakeholders and wananchi to collaborate by providing information to help in the fight against poaching. He decried increased illegal human activities within wildlife areas, increase of human wildlife conflicts, rising illegal trade of bush meat, increasing demand of charcoal in and outside the country, poverty and low understanding among Tanzanians as some of the impediments of anti-poaching drive. Dr Kigwangalla called on people dealing in the illegal wildlife trade and government trophies as well as invaders of game reserved areas to stop immediately, saying the government will not hesitate to take stern measures against them.