TANZANIA Parliamentarians Against Malaria (TAPAMA) on Wednesday commenced a major initiative as a campaign to support legislators’ engage in enhancing political will to eliminate malaria by 2030. The Chairperson of TAPAMA Riziki Lulida said yesterday that the project will strengthen political engagement and data-driven accountability and action at the Constituency and national level. “The project is set to broaden TAPAMA and all parties’ parliamentary group to organize against malaria and support institutionalization of accountability and action… through an enhanced malaria scorecard, which uses existing routinely collected data from the District Health Information Systems,” she said. There has been significant progress in reducing the burden of malaria with prevalence dropping drastically from 14.4 per cent in 2016 to 7.3 per cent by 2018. This significant progress is as a result of coordinated action by the Tanzania’s National Malaria Control Programme. To avoid back-tracking and accelerating the response we need increased action, more resources, increased partnerships, multisectoral action and greater accountability. As parliamentarians we have a greater role in supporting this vision towards achieving the goal of zero malaria by 2030. TAPAMA is working closely with the national malaria control programme and the African Leaders Malaria Alliance. This 18 month project in Tanzania is being financed by Comic Relief GSK Partnership (UK), a UK based Organization. The project will support the development of a malaria scorecard app for smartphones and tablets. The initiative will also see the development malaria advocacy and communication strategy and provide guidelines for parliamentarians on key advocacy, resource mobilisation and accountability actions. Parliamentarians will be trained on using the scorecard tools, with routine review meetings to drive accelerated actions conducted in four high malaria burden regions (Kigoma, Geita, Kagera, Lindi/Mtwara). TAPAMA will further engage in regional advocacy including playing a major role in the SADC Malaria Day event in November 2019. Parliamentarians are major partners in advancing the malaria agenda, where they play a major role at the Constituency level in advocating for service provision and enhancing participation through sharing information, role modeling, intervening with traditional structures and service providers at constituency level and spearheading oversight and accountability for malaria. At the national level parliamentarians can support the malaria agenda through expenditure tracking, creating a conducive policy environment, effectively advocating for an effective response as well as promoting accountability for results, sufficient resources and transparency of decisions and resource use.