WARD Executive Officers (WEOs) in Dodoma City have been urged to be trend setters on punctuality, by reporting early to their offices in the morning, to fully serve the people effectively and efficiently. Speaking at a recent capacity building training work shop of WEOs, the Acting Director of the City Council, Mr Balthazar Ngowi, expressed dismay over the growing ten- dency by WEOs to report to their offices late in the morning. “Ward Executive Officers should set an example on punctuality,” said the acting City Director, who is Head of the Administration and Public Service Unit. The workshop was organised by the City Council of Dodoma to enable them man age nutritional intervention programme in their respective areas effectively. Mr Ngowi further directed WEOs to supervise revenue collection in their respective areas well, and mobilize the people to discharge their tax payment obligations. “The revenues will enable the City Council to run its day to day activities effectively,” he observed. On the state of nutrition, Mr Ngowi said WEOs are obliged to supervise National Nutrition Programme implementation, stressing that they should mobilize community members to carry out the programme. On her side, Nutrition Officer of City Council of Dodoma Ms Semeni Juma, said malnutrition was serious in some areas of the city, citing out poor child care and lack of balanced diet as among the causes. “Malnutrition results in diseases, stunting and deaths to children. The National Nutrition Programme is vital for addressing the problem,” she said. Ms Juma said plans were underway for WEOs to enter into an agreement with the City Director for WEOs to be committed on implementing the National Nutrition Programme, the aim being to improve nutrition conditions in wards. Hombolo Ward Executive Officer Aletas Bakindile expressed gratitude to the city council for organising the workshop, noting that it also served as a platform for exchanging experiences. “The training workshop has reminded us of our responsibilities as WEOs in implementing the National Nutrition Programme,” he said.