MINISTER of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments), Mr Suleiman Jafo has commended the impact that JAMAFEST 2019 will bring to the East African Community (EAC). Speaking during a tour of the event at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the minister said that as the region is looking forward to strengthening security and peace within EAC, the region must be closely related and friendly, “Something that JAMAFEST 2019 is implementing.” He noted that through festivals and exhibitions of such types that use arts, crafts, traditions and culture, helps to cement the bond between EAC member states. Mr Jafo also noted that Kiswahili language has spread throughout the festival. “As I have visited various pavilions, I have witnessed Kiswahili been spoken by most people; this indicates how the language can create unity amongst the people in the region. “Kiswahili is an important and expensive commodity that can still be marketed to our neighboring countries,” he pointed out. The responsibility Tanzania has now is to ensure that the Kiswahili language is further spread to other countries, he remarked. JAMAFEST (Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival), help to join the citizens and strengthens unity in EAC, he said, adding: “I got an opportunity to visit several pavilions in the exhibitions and I got to witness the riches of arts and crafts found in the region.” JAMAFEST hailed as unification agent Mr Jafo was pleased with handicraft products which use materials that reflect day to day life, to create something aesthetic pleasing and putting a price in something considered as waste products. “This indicates that even in protecting the environment, cleanliness of our areas can be increased through arts and crafts,” he remarked further. This displays and proves how the region is blessed with many riches. There is no need of importing a lot of products as they are already found in East Africa, he stated. Witnessing a display of talents where men and women competed in some traditional sports, Mr Jafo commented: “I have witnessed sports that back then were doing very well; the youth participated in ‘mdako’, ‘bao’, ‘ukili’ and ‘dama’. These sports are now being forgotten, I am pleased to see them presented in this festival.” “Such sports are educating the youth today on the type of sports that the society in the past engaged in,” he said, adding: “My belief is that we are heading in the right direction and with the unity and bonds that we are continuing to build, we will reach at the destination envisioned by the federation.” He commended the entire team that was involved in the preparations that lead to the success of the festival. Mr Jafo urged Tanzanians to visit the National stadium grounds so as to meet various entrepreneurs at their pavilions, exchange ideas and come up with newer innovative ideas.