ABOUT 3,000 smallholder cashew nut growers in Mtwara, Lindi, Ruvuma and Coast regions will benefit from NMB Bank’s 9.35bn/- farm input loan in the 2019/2020 farming season. Under the arrangement, the bank has entered into partnership with Tanzania Agriculture Development Bank (TADB) that will provide 50 per cent loan guarantee through the Smallholder Credit Guarantee Scheme. Deputy Minister for Agriculture Hussein Bashe said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the government is determined to raise the contribution of agriculture to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) above the current level of about 30per cent. “The government, through the ministry of agriculture, is keen to create friendly environment for all financial institutions to increase investments in the agricultural sector at reasonable rates,” he said, noting that the government has already paid 665bn/- to cashew farmers and the remaining small amount will be settled before the year end. He added, “Our farmers across the country are in need of financial support necessary to procure farm inputs for the new farming season, I commend NMB for the move that will assure farmers of good harvests.” NMB Bank has to date, through TADB smallholder credit guarantee scheme, disbursed 14.3bn/- to 32 different Agricultural Marketing Co-operative Societies (AMCOS), with 14,310 members engaged in sugarcane, cashew and coffee production in Songwe, Morogoro, Coast, Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Lindi and Mtwara regions. Mr Bashe said the agricultural sector that employs over 70 per cent of the country’s workforce faces many problems—hi gh cost of production, limited access to financing and lack of reliable markets. To address the problems, the government made arrangement through the TADB smallholder credit guarantee scheme to guarantee loans to smallholder farmers for increased productivity. The deputy minister said only eight per cent of all banks’ 16tri/- total loan portfolio last year went to agriculture sector. “This is very small and unacceptable for the agriculture sector, which remains the heart of the economy,” he argued. He asked commercial banks in the country to continually lower interest rates to 15 per cent by next year from between 16 and 17 per cent charged, currently. NMB Bank’s Acting Managing Director Filbert Mponzi said the bank has taken deliberate efforts to expand agriculture financing, thanks to the important role that the sector plays in the economy. “Under our partnership with TADB, we are willing to support the warehouse receipt system financing as guided by the government in the 2019/20 season. We are committed to support the government efforts to develop agriculture and its contributions to the economy and poverty alleviation,” he said. TADB Managing Director Japhet Justine said, “We have guaranteed NMB to finance cashew nut farmers to procure farm inputs. We have done the same to sugarcane farmers.” “Under the guarantee scheme, we are supporting the government efforts to transform agriculture,” said Mr Justine, adding that the scheme is expected to attract more banks into agriculture sector.