MINISTER for Information, Culture and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe has appealed to residents in Lake Zone regions to travel to Bujumbura, Burundi in big numbers to cheer national team Taifa Stars. Taifa Stars will travel to Bujumbura for the 2022 World Cup Qatar qualifier first leg clash against hosts Burundi’s ‘Int’hamba Murugamba’ on Wednesday, before hosting the Burundians at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a week later. Ahead of the clash, Minister Mwakyembe has encouraged Mwanza, Kagera, Geita, Kigoma and Shinyanga residents to consider taking a short trip to Bujumbura and rally behind the team. Mwakyembe made the appeal on Friday, while addressing stakeholders and the media at the Kagera Regional Commissioner’s office. “I appeal to residents in the Lake Zone Regions- Mwanza, Kagera, Mara, Geita, Shinyanga and Kigoma to register themselves and travel to Bujumbura to support our national football team. “We have about nine excellent players including foreign- based Mbwana Samatta and Simon Msuva. All that is needed is to give them full support in their crucial match in Bujumbura. If we manage to win, I am quite sure the second leg in Dar es Salaam will be easier,” he said. According to Minister Mwakyembe, Tanzania is on the right track, having won several titles including the -17 women side that won the COSATA championship recently in South Africa. “We are making good strides at the international arena. The government is now working on improvement of the infrastructure including stadium. Three new stadiums will be covered with artificial turf this year,” he said. On Friday, Taifa Stars interim Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije predicted a tough encounter. The Burundian tactician is aware that the game against his native side is going to be tough, insisting that their opponents have a good squad that comprised some fresh blood. Ndayiragije took charge of the team from Nigerian football legend, Emmanuel Amunike, who parted ways with the team on mutual agreement, after unsatisfactory performance in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt last June. “We are aware that our opponents have a good team, which had also participated in AFCON finals this year, but we are well prepared to face them and we are looking forward for a competitive, tough and thrilling away game. Ndayiragije said players picked in the squad for twolegged clash are currently training at the Boko Veteran ground in Dar es Salaam and are responding well to his training regime. Should Taifa Stars see off Burundi, they will be one of the 14 winners in the qualification playoffs to join the continent’s top-ranked 26 sides, who have been exempted from the preliminary stage of the long journey to Qatar.