DEFENDING champions Simba will be seeking their fourth win out of four matches as they face Mara’s Biashara United at the Karume Stadium in Musoma today. It will be a tough Mainland Premier League assignment for both sides as Simba will be seeking to maintain their good run and grip of the top spot, while Biashara United will be fighting to keep their campaign back on track after a poor start into the season. After four matches, Biashara United have only managed one point and are placed 18th of the log. Simba will come into the match today buoyed with confidence, following their 3-0 drubbing of Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba last Thursday. Deadly striker Meddie Kagere scored twice and Assistant skipper Mohamed Hussein netted one in a match they should have won even with a bigger margin. Following the victory, Simba knocked off Kagera Sugar to reclaim the driver’s seat at the 20-team league with maximum nine points from three matches. Kagera Sugar with the same points drop to second on goal difference but they have played four matches. Going into the match today, Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems said his charges need to be more clinical in front of the goal, saying the Simba ought to have scored more goals in the match against Kagera Sugar basing on the chances created. He added that their mission in Kagera has been accomplished and now they have turned their focus on the next game against Biashara United at the Karume Stadium in Musoma today. “After Kagera, we will see how our players make recovery from the game and put our plans on the coming game, which will be staged in a poor pitch and because we are aware of the situation, we will see how to tackle,” he said. He added that Simba is playing all their games to win and in the focus in every game is to try to play an attractive and offensive game. Simba arrived in Bukoba from Mwanza early yesterday amid massive reception from the fans, who thronged the streets to welcome their team. Aussems will continue to miss the services of injured striker and skipper John Bocco, who is nursing knee injury he picked during the Community Shield match against Azam FC on August 10th this year. Bocco scored two goals in Simba’s 2-0 win over Biashara United in the league match at the same venue last season. However, the presence of Ibrahim Ajib as a second striker, has given Simba another dimension in attack as demonstrated during their match against Kagera Sugar. Biashara United is trained by former Simba defender Amri Said, who joined the team after parting ways with Mwanza based Mbao FC last season. Meanwhile, in other league matches played yesterday, Ruvu Shooting beat Polisi Tanzania 1-0 at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast Region, while Singida United lost 0-1 to Alliance FC of Mwanza at the Namfua Stadium in Singida. Mwandui and Mbao battled to a 1-1 draw at the Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga.