CULTURAL exhibitions, music, dance as well as arts and craft were temporarily put aside at the regional Arts and Cultural extravaganza, dubbed Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival (JAMAFEST), as the crowd was treated to various traditional games. Kicking off the day with tug-of- war, the women’s group started with a team from Tanzania and Kenya. It was a great game of tagging and pulling and shouting, where the two teams at the end got out with a draw. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ one of the Tanzanian team participants V eronica Kalunga said that in general it was a great game and was a fun filled morning. “ In the first round, we were not ready, and were taken by surprise and that is why we lost but managed to recover in the second round,” she said. Not wanting to give her full name, Susan a participant from the Kenyan team said that overall both teams were good. ‘Wapinzani wetu siyo mbaya’. The second game involved men tug-of- war, where Tanzania lost to Kenya twice. Kenya’s team captain Kelvin Makanga congratulated both teams for their dedication. He commanded organisers of JAMAFEST 2019, pointing out that it present a perfect platform for EAC to come together through sports and culture, “We got to interact, play games, win and at the end of the day still hug each other,” Makanga said. The grounds were filled with other traditional sports including a wrestling match, where Tanzanian men got to showcase their ability in the ring. The first match was between Abuu Sanga and Ahsan Kizala. Where in the first two rounds they tied and the game entered into a tie breaker, where Kizala emerged the winner. Other sport disciplines that were showcased during the festival included board game or Bao; mdako for ladies and Kenyans got to illustrate the game of Pia. It is more of a short rod that is designed to be pointy at the bottom and widens as it reaches the top, where it is twisted and rolls around, but once it falls it marks game over. Men and women from Tanzania showed how to grate a coconut, where they competed. There was a display of traditional dart games, plaiting ukili and so many more. Commenting, the National Sports Council (NSC), Deputy Secretary General, Neema Msitha said traditional games must be given priority they deserve. He reminded registered traditional sports associations in Tanzania and the rest of EAC to put more efforts in promoting them. “ As part of the efforts by the government of Tanzania, we have called them to participate in the festival and show their talents. However major efforts are supposed to be done by the associations to promote the games,” she commented.