KMC FC Head Coach, Jackson Mayanja said frequent injuries in his squad will have an impact to them in the early stages of the Vodacom Premier League (VPL). The Kinondoni based side started the season on a back foot after a 1-0 defeat from Azam FC on August 26th this year at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to occupy 15th slot as far as the current VPL table is concerned. KMC had a chance to fly high the national colours in CAF Confederation Cup but were prematurely bundled out by AS Kigali from Rwanda after a 2-1 loss at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The first leg tie in Kigali ended scoreless hence each team had an opportunity to do well in the second leg but in the end, the visitors progressed. Speaking here recently, Mayanja said they have had no resting time no wonder; they kicked off the season with big pressure on them. “We competed in the CECAFA Kagame Cup as well as Confederation Cup and after that, we had few days before starting the league season that is why we had so much pressure on us,” he said. Adding, the Ugandan trainer said now, some of his players have joined their respective national teams for the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. However, Mayanja revealed that he was a bit confused as some of his regular players have reportedly joined the junior national team (U-20) bearing in mind that they usually stay in camp for almost a month. “Some of our dependable players have been included in the U-20 team but my worry is that they will stay in camp for about a month, while the league is going on. This will have an adverse impact on our performance,” he said. Eight teams started the league on front foot after winning all their opening games to bag crucial three points, which are Lipuli FC, Simba SC, Kagera Sugar, Namungo FC, Azam FC, Mwadui, Polisi Tanzania and Ruvu Shooting. On the other hand, another eight teams started negatively to miss the vital three opening points such as Young Africans, JKT Tanzania, Mtibwa Sugar, Biashara United, Singida United, KMC, Ndanda FC and Coastal Union. Only four teams pocketed one point each after their respective matches elapsed in draws and they are Mbeya City, Tanzania Prisons, Alliance FC and Mbao FC.