ATTORNEY General Prof Adelardus Kilangi yesterday tabled miscellaneous amendment bill, which among others, seeks to strengthen the rule of law, fast track case hearing and curb corruption. The Written Laws, Miscellaneous Amendments (N) 4) Bill, 2019 that came for second reading in parliament yesterday also restricts public law officers, state attorneys or lawyers from being issued with practicing certificate during the whole period of service. The suggested amendments restrict law officers and state attorneys from practicing as advocates during the entire period of their service with exception of document certification and affidavit. The bill proposes to amend eleven laws—the Advocates Act, Cap. 341, the Births and DeathsRegistration Act, Cap. 108, the Criminal Procedure Act, Cap. 20, the Extradition Act, Cap. 368 and the Government Proceedings Act, Cap. 5. Others are the Magistrates Courts Act, Cap. 11, the National Prosecution Service Act, Cap.408, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act, Cap.329, the Proceeds of Crime Act, Cap.256, the Office of the Attorney General (Discharge of Duties) Act, (Cap.268) and the Tanganyika Red Cross Society Act, Cap 66. The proposed amendments, argued the Attorney General, aimat updating and harmonising the respective laws with changes so far observed in their implementation. The Advocates Act, he said, is amended to align it with subsequent changes that were effectedin the organisational structure of the AG Office. Professor Kilangi added that the amendments also intend to enhance the system of birth and death registration to enable the government to plan and allocate its resources, accordingly. The amendments adopt ward and village executive officers as assistant registrars, saying the changes seek to devolve services close to wananchi. They further propose new provisions to enable registration of deaths of Tanzanians abroad. The amendments introduce procedures to be followed in the process of adoption and issuance of registration certificates, upon adoption. On the Criminal Procedure Act the amendment aimed at introducing plea bargaining system in the country. If endorsed, the system will allow negotiation in criminal cases between the prosecutor and accused, with the accused given option to plead guilty to particular offence, lesser offence or particular counts in a charge with multiple counts in return for some concession from the public prosecutor, which may not be limited to lenient sentence or withdrawal of other counts. The amendments further propose addition of new sections, which provide procedures for plea bargaining agreement, consequences of the plea bargaining agreement, plea bargaining agreement format and procedure for registration of the plea bargaining agreement. The amendments intend to empower the Chief Justice to make and give directives for better carrying out of the provisions relating to plea bargaining. The AG said introduction of the system will reduce case backlogs and ensure timely delivery of justice as well as reduce inmate congestions in prison facilities. The amendments under the Extradition Act propose mandate to the minister responsible for legal affairs to surrender fugitive criminals to any person duly authorised by the country. The Bill proposes amendment to the Government Proceedings Act, introducing the Solicitor General as an Advocate of the Attorney General. The proposal requires all persons to submit to the Solicitor General a copy of the notice to sue in all suits against the Attorney General to give him ample time to prepare for defence. The AG is empowered to give instructions to the Solicitor General to proceed or terminate any proceedings pending in court. “A new section has been introduced to empower the Attorney General to intervene in any suit or matter instituted against the government, intervention by the Attorney General in the suit or matter doesn’t require a ninety- day notice as stipulated by the Government Proceedings Act” he said. In the Magistrates’ Courts Act the bill proposes amendment to enhance the pecuniary jurisdiction of commercial cases in subordinate courts. The amendment aims at reducing backlog of cases triable in the High Court Commercial Division. Other amendments seek to decentralise powers of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) on issues related to issuance of consents to offences, which require his consent before they are commenced in courts. In the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act, the proposed amendments intend to align the powers of the DPP and officers under him to issuing consent to commence criminal proceedings in corruption offences.