DEPUTY Ministry for State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Labour, Youth, Employment and Disabled, Anthony Mavunde has commended RoutePro, a Tanzanian lastmile distribution company, for their creativity towards empowering and creating youth employment by providing motorcycles and business training to 30 youths in five regions. Mr Mavunde was speaking at a handover event here organised by RoutePro, where the distribution company was handing out a total of 30 motorcycles to be distributed in Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and Singida regions. “Youth unemployment is one of the major challenges facing our nation, thus, addressing this is our top priority as the government, and that is why we continue to work closely with various development partners to create sustainable solutions, and when Tanzanian companies such as RoutePro take initiatives to provide training and employment opportunities to our youths, we provide all the necessary support they need,” said Mr Mavunde. RoutePro’s initiative will provide 30 motorcycles to youths along with training on business and distribution practices as well as educating them on the use of latest technology to track sales and data management. The distribution company already has 400 motorcycles doing last-mile distribution for a number of Fast-Moving- Consumer-Goods companies, including Tanzania Cigarette Company (TCC). RoutePro will also engage with its business partners and other Tanzanian manufacturers to support candidates with stock to distribute and sell in the market. The two parties (RoutePro and the candidate) are to thereafter split the profit 50/50. Speaking on the selection process, RoutePro’s Operations Manager, Jaja Mbazila, said the distribution company used a data base of the youths who have been working with RoutePro in various distribution projects and selected those who demonstrated hard work and determination to grow. “We are basically giving the hardworking and selfdriven youths an opportunity to grow and eventually build their own businesses. We have worked closely with them over the past few years, and they demonstrated determination and potential to do well in this line of business,” said Mr Mbazila.