AUTHORITIES in Chamwino District have further lowered charges for land formalisation to 80,000/- from 150,000/- in an attempt to empower property owners increase investments and promote economic prosperity in the locality. Initially, Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development Minister William Lukuvi announced in April this year, that the land surveying fee shall be 150,000/- down from 250,000/- that was paid to surveying companies for formalising land. Julius Mayira, the district lands and resources department chief announced at the public meeting in Chamwino the government will be charging 80,000/- for Buigiri residents and 100,000/- for Chamwino Ikulu and Msanga villagers. The district land officer told villagers attending the meeting that the government had also returned over 1,000 plots of land that has initially been earmarked by the district council. “All title holders will be required to develop their land with immediate effect ... the council is against unplanned settlements and Chamwino is the new eye of the state.” Apparently some villagers had complained to the regional commissioner Dr Binilith Mahenge that since the government took over a large portion of the land in Chamwino for the expansion of the State House, dozens had resorted in settling up their structures in unplanned vicinities. Jonath Maheneo, a resident who attended the gathering requested the authority to explain their aftermath following its earlier decision to allow some private companies to survey their land at the cost of 700 per meter square. “This amount is cheap for a person who has a small plot. But some of us have a large piece of land and if you tally it, it’s a lot of money,” he said. In response, Mr Mayira said the government was not involved during the negotiations, cautioning the general public against signing dubious agreements. He said the council had also reached a consensus with some private firms to survey the land in the district and work was expected to start soon.