SENIOR investors and members of the Ras Al Khaimah Chamber of commerce have shown interest to invest here should the business environment be conducive. This was revealed during their meeting President Ali Mohamed Shein who is on an official visit in the UAE. Members of the RAK Chamber of Commerce & Industry displayed their business to Dr Shein saying they intend to operate in Z anzibar in the near future should they be convinced by the ‘investments climate.’ The assistant Director General of the Chamber with 139 members, Ms Eiman Darwish Alhayyas said they plan to travel to Zanzibar to find new areas of investments including trade, food security, industries, tourism and agriculture. Mr Ahmed Numan- director general, Ras Al Khaimah Economic Zone (RAKEZ), with about 40,500 investment projects and that industry contributes 25 percent of the country’s GDP, and booming Tourism. President Ali Mohamed Shein welcomed the planned relations with the chamber saying Z anzibar is currently a better place for investment and that the government has been improving infrastructure. Dr Shein is on official visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), since last Sunday in honour of the invitation of Sheik Saud Bin Saqr Al Q asimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah. Dr Shein and his delegation will meet leaders of the Ras Al Khaimah (RAK)-Gas Company, which is already operating in Zanzibar in the ‘Oil and Gas explorations project.’ Ras Al Khaimah Economic Zone (RAKEZ), sea town of Ras Al Khaimah, Tourism development Authority, and companies among other activities listed during his visit in the UAE country before witnessing the signing ceremony to strengthen Z anzibar/Abu Dhabi relations and benefit more through ‘Khalifa Fund.’ Shein’s delegation included his wife First Lady Mwanamwema Shein; State Minister Mr Issa Ussi Haji ‘Gavu’; Finance and planning Minister Ambassador, Mohamed Ramia Abdiwawa and Land and Energy Minister Ms Salama Aboud Talib. Others are the Attorney General Mr Said Hassan Said; Acting Director- foreign affairs department (Zanzibar), Mr Ambassador, Mohamed Haji Hamza; and other government officer. They are expected to return on Sunday September 29, this year.