THE Ministry of Education, Science and Technology has affirmed that there are plenty and competent Kiswahili teachers ready to grab Southern African Development Community (SADC) opportunities to teach the language in their countries. The statement was made in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the ministry’s Public Relations and Communications Officer, Ms Sylvia Lupembe when she paid a courtesy call at Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) offices. “We have sent Kiswahili teachers abroad not once, after SADC meeting and we want to confirm that there are sufficient and qualified teachers, who are ready to grab such opportunities,” she further said in company of her team, as they talked to the journalists. She cited South Africa, Rwanda and China as countries, which have already acquired experts to teach the language in their educational institutions. “This is our role and we have enough qualified teachers who are ready to teach Kiswahili in other nations too,” she emphasized. Ms Lupembe noted that universities in the country offer Kiswahili language lessons and her Ministry was part of the team as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seeing into it that they coordinate the programme externally. More push in teaching Kiswahili Language to foreign countries came into limelight after it was adopted as the fourth official language at the 39th Summit of the Heads of State and Government of SADC meeting held in Dar es Salaam recently. The decision was welcomed and hailed as a progressive step and for many; it is not surprising that the region is finally embracing the language considering that Kiswahili is already an official language in the six out of the 16 SADC member States. Kiswahili is also an official language at the African Union (AU) and the East African Community (EAC). In another development, Ms Lupembe said that the ongoing project to renovate the old buildings in schools countrywide started with Songea Boys, Minaki, Mwisenge, Tabora boys is progressing well, and currently a total of 60 out of 88 have already been attended to. She also commented that the visit was also to strengthen their ties with the ministry for better flow of information on education matters. In another development, Ms Lupembe said that they have set up a bureaucracy that would assist the public on how to acquire any information from the ministry.