THE Dar es Salaam–based TGNP Mtandao has just held a five-day event that invited over 1,000 feminist activists from different parts of the world to discuss issues that foster gender equality. It was an occasion which made some inter-cultural engagements where for example, women from Tarime in Mara Region met others from Kishapu (Shinyanga Region), Ilala (Dar es Salaam and even from Mbeya and Morogoro regions. During the Gender Festival, feminists identified the patriarchal systems embodied within political party systems, corruption and sexual exploitation faced by women in politics as key to their advancement politically. They also discussed the need to raise and coordinate public debates and issues of women's rights in political processes at different levels, and to ensure key laws and policies supporting women's equal participation in politics. Efforts have been made worldwide to reduce gender parity in all aspects of life, by increasing accessibility and equity of women in various areas, decision making being one. Today, women occupy a relative amount of positions of power in the country, despite their number being small in such positions. However, women in decision making positions are faced by various challenges. There is a need to explore the challenges faced by women leaders, their ability to cope, ways they engage in coping with the situation and suggest ways of reducing the challenges. During the festival, the participants identified dominant masculine culture, negative attitude from subordinates, woman natural roles, low level of commitment and confidence, lack of time to socialize and networking as impeding women rights. They discovered strategies to fight women inequality as being hard working, balancing between the office and family, employing participatory techniques in management, further education and training, especially on management skills, setting achievable goals. They vowed to avoid unethical practices such as corruption and sexual affairs, doing away with discriminatory traditions and laws, mentoring and coaching and use of alumni and role models. Women are not different from men and the existing gender inequalities are not biologically created but rather socially constructed. In order to bring social change and reduce gender inequality eliminating impediments and put in place policies, laws that promote equal rights of women there is a need for for women to attain 50 per cent women representation in management and decision making positions. I think role women gender models should now start sharing their experiences, coach and mentor girls from low school age, priotise further education and training for women, appointing women based on their merits and appointees getting proper orientation. There is a need to identify capable girls, nurture, and mentor them, engage women in awareness campaigns, and advocate for change in discriminatory laws and practices. What is gratifying is that the government is planning to review Women and Gender Development policy to empower more women in advancing their progress and growth. Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly, and Children Dr Faustine Ndugulile says equal chances to women can also reduce gender violence in society. When he spoke at the 14th Gender Festival organized by TGNP Mtandao in Dar es Salaam recently, Dr Ndugulile said in 2017, over 41,000 gender-based violence incidents were reported countrywide. Women and girls should not undergo gender based violence and they deserve greater access to resources, opportunities, and decision-making power, in order to sustainably reduce extreme poverty, build healthy communities, and promote inclusive growth. The establishment of gender desks, One Stop Centre to handle Gender Based Violence (GBV) and Violence Against Children (VAC), has so far attracted praises as an effective strategy to check aggression in the society. These efforts focus on strengthening women- and youth-friendly policies at the national level, working with communities and local government to increase women's equality and youth inclusion, and ensuring that Tanzanian women and youth are healthier and more productive. Tanzania is one of two initial priority countries under Let Girls Learn, a whole-of-government initiative to improve enrollment and retention in educational programs for female adolescents. While primary school enrollment among girls and boys is nearly equivalent in Tanzania, less than 20 percent of women age 20-24 have completed secondary school and 20 percent have had no education at all.