SINGIDA Municipal Director, Mr Bravo Lyapembile has appealed to the coordinators of the poverty alleviation scheme identified as the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) to assist beneficiaries with knowledge and skills for their sustainable incomes and overcome a prolonged dependency. Mr Lyapembile was speaking to a team of journalists from various media houses who are visiting TASAF implemented projects in the region. The Director noted that it is only through capacity building and proper guidelines to be employed for sustainable business to enable the beneficiaries raise their economic status. On that note, he urged the beneficiaries to consider and put into full use pieces of advices and guidelines given by the coordinators and other experts. He, however, noted that huge transformation has been recorded in areas the programme is being executed, where most of the people, who were living in abject poverty, can now engage in several income generating activities, citing them as poultry farming and other small businesses to sustain their lives. Others have also gone to the extent of improving their houses from mud-thatched houses roofed with grasses to modern iron roofed ones. In line to that the programme has also helped to strengthen delivery of health services in the municipality by embarking on the construction of Ugauga Dispensary along with a staff house. And, via the public works programme (PWP), the beneficiaries are receiving an addition income through their participation in executing a project of their choice, which has been identified by the communities. “With the presence of the Dispensary, people around the area currently do not need to walk far away to access medical services when they are ill,” said the Municipal Director. According to the Director, the programme has further stepped up to support school girls with 50,000/- after every two months to procure sanitary pads, a move aimed to boost the educations system by ensuring that the group do not miss days of school every month. “The fact that the programme reaches its targeted population as well as vividly showing intended results, clearly shows that the goal of the government in ending poverty is promising,” he noted. He identified challenges facing the programme in the area as a huge demand of poor households and called upon TASAF to find a possibility of including the rest of the group. In further strengthening the fight against poverty and ensuring that the country meets the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) among, which includes ending poverty, the municipality dished out 136m/-to women, youth and people with disability in the financial year 2018/19 and over 80m/-in the previous year for the same. Attesting to the real situation, a widower Maria Majengo (48), who lives in Mtipa Village and Ward, disclosed that several years ago when her husband passed on, she was thrown out of their matrimonial home by the relatives of her deceased spouse along with her seven children. “I was left with nothing, I returned at my parent’s residents who gave me a piece of land where I literally lived. “After being enrolled to the programme, I am thankful I now own a house, and my children can go to school, eat three meals a day and I am operating a milk and tomato business,” said Maria.