TANZANIA has earned itself tremendous fame across the world for a couple of reasons. The late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, our country’s pioneer president, played an instrumental role in adveritising, first, Tanganyika, and subsequently, Tanzania, when the Mainland and the Isles merged. Given his humbleness, the advertisement was not something he demanded, perceiving his contributions as a mission expected of every patriot and nationalist. It naturally came to pass therefore, and not surprisingly, that his death in 1999 triggered sorrow that spread like whirlwind across the globe. Without directly setting out to be thus, Mwalimu was one of the country’s leading advertisers, as is the Kiswahili language, whose popularity is consistently rising beyond the country’s borders, one of the latest manifestations being its adoption as the fourth official language of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), the others being English, French and Portuguese. Beyond Mwalimu and Kiswahili, fabulous tourist attractions constitute yet another factor for Tanzania’s magnetic pull. These include the majestic Kilimanjaro Mountain, and the variety of wildlife. For virtually all foreigners who visit our country, climbing and even having a glimpse of the majestic Kili is a MUST. Chipped into the bargain is seeing wildlife in the country’s national parks and game reserves. That is all very well for the visitors and citizens alike; they derive joy from seeing the endowments of which we are custodians on behalf of the rest of mankind. Something is wrong though somewhere there-in, and it is pretty embarrassing. It is that, whereas quite many foreigners troop into Tanzania to savour the country’s fascinating tourist attractions, relatively few of the nationals appreciate the emotional benefits derived from them. One of the leading factors is the feeling that tourist attractions are meant for foreigners and not wananchi. We thus have the embarrassing scenario of foreigners delightfully enjoying the splendour of wildlife and other attractions, while the sons and daughters of the soil are virtually in the dark on that score. That mentality ought to change. More Tanzanians should be psyched into cultivating an interest in seeing and appreciating natural attractions, by basically neutralising the notion that God’s gifts like wildlife are meant for Europeans. Hence the validity of the recent call by the Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Mr Constantine Kanyasu, for Tanzanians to cultivate a culture of visiting tourist sites.