TANZANIANS have been urged to vote for Mount Kilimanjaro for it to be selected as one of the World’s Leading Tourist Attraction 2019. The plea was made on Saturday by the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Dr Hamis Kigwangalla, while launching HK Kilichallenge campaign that is aimed at raising funds to fight against HIV/AIDS. “There are many benefits for Tanzania as a nation if Mount Kilimanjaro wins and is declared the World’s Leading Tourist Attraction 2019 and this would stimulate a significant increase in the number of tourists in the country, which is one of the government’s main goals as far as the tourism sector developments in the country is concerned,”he said. The Minister noted that there are many reasons why Mount Kilimanjaro could emerge as a winner in the competition, which he said included the presence of four ecological zones around the Kilimanjaro National Park (KINAPA) and runs from the Equator to Antarctica, a fact which makes the mountain the best sight for adventures in the world. “Another reason is the fact that Mount Kilimanjaro won at least six International Kudos in the past ten years; these few reasons among many others are enough to give Mount Kilimanjaro a victory. The only thing we Tanzanians have to do, is to encourage each other to vote so that the Africa’s highest peak could have enough votes to win”, he added. Commenting on the inaugural HK Kilichallenge campaign Dr Kigwangalla said in addition to raising funds for the fight against HIV/ AIDS it has also focused on improving the tourism sector by advertising Mount Kilimanjaro, where he thanked all the sponsors, who supported the initiative through their different sponsorships. Speaking during the occasion, the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC) Anna Mghwira, who presided over the launch, congratulated Dr Kigwangalla for introducing the HK Kilichallenge campaign in the area. “This campaign is a historical event, which will be spiced if you make it to the peak because you will write another history as the first sitting Tanzania’s Natural Resources and Tourism Minister to have reached the peak of Mount Kilimanjaro,” she said. In another development, Ms Mghwira hailed the Ministry for Natural Resources and the Parliamentary Committee for Lands, Natural resources and Tourism for their commitment, which has led to improvements in the tourism sector. She also applauded the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) management for its commitment to manage the country’s National Parks, a move which she said also contributed to the increase of tourists visiting the country. “Your outstanding performance led to the government under the leadership of President Dr John Magufuli to increase three new National Parks, and more recently the addition of the fourth to be known as the Julius Nyerere National Park,” pointed out the RC. On her part, the Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee for Lands, Natural resources and Tourism Ms Kemirembe Lota, who will be one of 130 participants in the campaign, said some of the members of the committee members have decided to join Dr Kigwangalla in the campaign to improve the country’s tourism sector, besides the main goal of raising funds to fight scourge. During the climb, Dr Kigwangalla will lead more than 130 participants, involving different film and music stars, like Nassib Abdul (Diamond), Steven Nyerere and Jacob Steven (JB), to mention but a few.