THE prosecution yesterday dropped four money laundering charges in the 2.4bn/- trial of five people, including UDA Rapid Transit Limited (UDART) Director, Robert Kisena, which is pending at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam. Following such new development, Kisena and his co- accused persons will face 15 out of 19 counts of leading organised crime, forgery, uttering false documents, and obtaining money by false pretences and occasioning loss which they were previously facing. Other accused persons include Kisena's wife, Florencia Mashauri, Kulwa Kisena and Charles Newe, who are director and accountant with UDART, respectively, as well as Chen Shi, a Chinese Engineer and Director with Longway Engineering Company Limited. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile, the accused were not allowed to enter plea to the charges as they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The decision by the prosecution to drop the money laundering charges entitles the accused to apply for bail at the High Court. The case was adjourned to September 17, 2019, for mention. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, are incomplete. The prosecution alleges that the accused committed the offences between January 1, 2011 and May 31, 2018. It is alleged that within the same period in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, all accused with others not in court, intentionally organised a criminal racket. The court heard that Robert, Kulwa, Newe and Florencia are alleged to have stolen fuel valued at 1,216,145,374/10, property of UDART. The prosecution told the court that on October 20, 2012 in Dar es Salaam, with intent to defraud, Robert and Shi forged Extract Board Resolution and List of Shareholders, purporting that members of Longway Engineering Company Limited resolved to open current account with KCB Bank Tanzania Limited. According to the prosecution, the accused also pretended that they were shareholders of the company and had authorised the opening of the bank account in question, while it was false. It is alleged that on the same day the accused uttered the two documents at the bank. Between April 6 and May 26, 2016 at NMB Bank PLC, Bank House Branch in Ilala District, with intent to defraud, Robert allegedly forged two Fund Transfer Request Forms, showing a total of 1,344,925,000/- was payment to the company. Such payments were for manufacture of cabinets and backup power and its equipment and civil works at installation and construction of terminal fences at Kimara, Ferry (Kivukoni), Ubungo and Morocco Stations of Rapid Bus Transport (BRT), while it was not true. He is also alleged to have knowingly and fraudulently tendered the said documents at the bank on the same day. On June 8, 2016 at the bank, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, Robert and Shi allegedly obtained 1,198,180,886/58 from UDART, purporting the sum was payments to Longway firm. The prosecution alleged that between May 25, 2015 and December 31, 2016 in Dar es Salaam, by their willful acts, Robert, Kulwa, Newe, Shi and Florencia caused UDART to suffer a pecuniary loss of 2,414,326,260/70. Kisena brothers and Florencia were also charged with two separate counts of constructing petroleum installation without approval and selling petroleum in unauthorised premises. The offences were allegedly committed between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2017 at Jangwani Area in Ilala District. The court was told that being directors of a company known as Zenon Oil and Gas Limited, jointly and together, the trio constructed petroleum installation infrastructure known as Petroleum Filling Station without the approval of the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA). It is alleged that the three accused persons also conducted business of selling petroleum in an unauthorised premises, at Jangwani Rapid Bus Yard.  