DAR ES SALAAM has been officially announced as a host of the newly introduced Basketball Africa League (BAL) Group D qualifying competition. The group D battle of the competition that consists only men teams is scheduled to be held at the National Indoor Stadium in the city from November 15 to 20th this year. Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) president Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the new league that is organised by FIBA Africa in collaboration with National Basketball America (NBA) replace the African Club Championship. It was introduced in Beijing, China recently, during the World Basketball Congress. Magesa said that clubs from 48 African countries including JKT of Tanzania will battle it out in the preliminaries stage that two teams will sail through to the second round. In the tournament, Magesa said, Tanzania champions JKT is scheduled to face challenge from Patriot (Rwanda), Hawassa (Ethiopia), City Oilers (Uganda), Brave Hearts (Malawi), and Dyanamo (Burundi) for top two slots. He said that teams that will sail through, will form two groups with best three each qualify for the BAL 2020 battle. “The six best teams in the qualifying tournament, will join other six from African well developed basketball countries like Senegal, Nigeria, Egypt, Angola, Tunisia and Morocco to form 12 teams that will also be pooled into two groups that will battle it out for the league top honours,” said Magesa. Currently, JKT also lead the field of 16 Dar es Salaam League (RBA League) teams table with 45 points from 23 matches. Magesa said all regions and zonal league Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar should be concluded by October, before the National Basketball League (NBL) playoff is staged early in November. Magesa said that women will continue with the existing format as Dar es Salaam city is also honored to host FIBA Zone V Basketball Club Championship for women. The annual competition is scheduled to start at the National Indoor Stadium in the city from November 21-26th this year. The championship makes a return in the country for the second consecutive year. He said Tanzania will be presented by JKT Stars and Don Bosco Lioness, who will battle it out against Les Gazelles (Burundi), Wokite (Ethiopia), Equity and KPA (Kenya), APR and Hoops (Rwanda), Mogadishu City (Somalia) and JKL (Uganda). Magesa appealed for sponsors and sports wellwishers to come forward and support teams and the federation to stage successful events