IN the social media networks the word Beberu is trending and has gained popularity. Those with differing opinions and political ideology call each other Beberu-“Wewe Beberu tu” with a light touch though. It is interesting the way it is been used and the perspectives or implied meaning it carries. Following what is happening in the US with respect to their President Donald Trump and in Britain with regards to their Prime Minister Boris Johnson one can be prompted to say the Beberus houses are on fire. A call from top Democrat senators want President Trump to be impeached on allegation that he has abused his presidential powers and sought help from a foreign government to investigate his political rival former Vice-President, Joe Biden is loud and clear. The whole drama started when a courageous whistleblower spilled the beans. What impresses me, however, is the way Beberus tackle their internal affairs. The approach is definitive and transparent in the real meaning of the word. According to the Democrat US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi a process to impeach President Trump is underway and that the House of Representatives is working to ensure that the rule of law is observed. As you would have expected President Trump calls the charges “Witch Hunt garbage.” But those who have seen the complaint from the whistleblower such as the US House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff think otherwise. “I found the allegations deeply disturbing and credible,” Schiff says adding that, “I want to thank the whistleblower for coming forward. I think what this courageous individual has done has exposed serious wrong doing.” Whilst fire has broken at the US oval office, in London things are not calm either. The No-deal Brexit is threatening the PM’s position as opposition MP’s are demanding for Boris Johnson’s resignation for breaking the law. I see history in the making as BJ might go down the books as the short-lived British PM. BJ had suspended parliament to allow his administration to fast track the No-deal Brexit but his political maneuver hit a dyke when the Supreme Court recalled the parliament mid this week. Defiant BJ reacted strongly urging the parliament to stay aside or face day of reckoning and accusing Jeremy Corbyn of ‘running scared’. Interesting political development from the two leading Beberus in the world, isn’t it? We have a president from “Established Democracy” who wants to hang on power through Machiavellian antics and a Prime Minister- also from an “Advanced Democracy” who wants to accomplish his political agenda through undemocratic and unlawful means. If these things were happening in a young democracy or less developed world their reaction- language and approach-is everybody’s guess. Name calling, demonization and all sorts of actions including sanctions would have been taken. My political exchanges with Diasporas confirms a plunging deeply divided nations the US and Britain have become in recent years. There a couple of lessons that we can learn from these Beberus as they strive to bring their houses in order. We have seen on a number of cases how independent the pillars of these nations are. The judiciary is working independently and justice is delivered promptly and accordingly. In the case of the US we have heard and seen how President Trump has tried to ‘interfere’ with other pillars on several occasions but he has always hit a dyke because the systems are independent, transparent and officials are professionals and guided by work ethic. Following a disclosure from the whistle blower, Joe Biden, who is his political rival had this to say, “President Donald Trump not only has compromised national security but mounted ‘a direct attack on the independence of the justice department.” In Britain, the judiciary has done its part by reinstating the parliament and parliament is now holding accountable the Prime Minister who had to cut his New York official trip short to face off parliamentarians. I am sure our officials and politicians can borrow a leaf from the British and US politics. Public right to know is also central to good governance. The US top politicians are now demanding the complaint to be made public for citizens to read and understand its content. The US Senate’s top Democrat, for instance, Chuck Schumer has urged the White House to make it public. “The public has a right to read the whistle blower’s complaint for themselves. The contents of the complaint should be made public immediately,” he demanded. Undeniably, when all information is scant, considered classified and with today’s technology all one is creating are rumours and probably to borrow a word from President Trump’s ‘fake news’ or ‘hoax’ by beberus (those who raises their voices or have the nerve to questions the status quo). In Britain a No-deal Brexit is consuming and frustrating BJ. Interestingly despite all the pressure from opponents, BJ has vowed to get his country out of the EU whether with a deal or no deal come October 31. If you ask British elites and business persons they will tell you Brexit is a wrong move. Questions that lingers: Are Brits now worried about established businesses across the EU by British businessmen and women? What about their country’s contributions to the EU? What about the people and families who have established themselves within the EU or were able to secure jobs and businesses because they were part of the EU? What about Britain’s relations with other EU members if no deal will be secured come October 31? It’s not the intention of this piece to meddle into EU’s affairs but the fact that the EAC has been modeled towards it, I thought it wise to shed light on its unforeseeable future. Whatever happens to EU or one of its member states there is surely a lesson for EAC member states, officials and people to learn. Looking at the Tories and BJ’s approach and the way he takes up the issue certainly Britain might find itself in a fix which will take effort and energy to get over it. From the way things stand, BJ looks upbeat, determined and primed to go. Yes, the Brits have given him the support to take on EU heavy weights who are also determined to stop BREXIT if there will be no deal. Despite all the pressure, however, both President Donald Trump and Boris Johnson seem to be unshaken. To them everything is cool and there is no problem! Jacks Meena, Freelance Media and Communications Consultant. E-mail:jmmeena@hotmail.com +255 655 280 355/754 283 557