DOGS suspected of having rabies have been attacking residents in various parts of Kalambo District in Rukwa Region, with reports claiming that one person has died of rabies and 17 others, among them 14 children, have been injured. The person suspected of dying of rabies was attacked by the dogs reportedly from Santa Maria Village near a small town of Matai in Kalambo District. The three persons, who sustained injuries, come from Kisungamile Village, while the 14 children are from Keleni and Old Matai villages. Kalambo District Council Livestock and Fisheries Officer, Wilbroad Kansapa revealed this, while addressing a rally at Santa Maria Village, saying most people in the district with 6,360 residents, had not been vaccinated. He further explained that he had already liaised with the Kalambo District medical officer to ensure rabies vaccine was available at all health facilities in the district. He confirmed that one person from Santa Maria Village had been reported dead after being attacked with a rabid dog, while three Kisungumile villagers and 14 children from Keleni and Old Matai had been attacked. “In efforts to address the problem, District government through Livestock and Fishery Department have started killing stray dogs by shooting them with live ammunitions “he added. In addition, Mr Kansapa urged dog owners to ensure they vaccinated their dogs against rabies, insisting that all dogs should be chained from wee hours to midnight failure of which legal action would be taken against the culprits. Rabies is a deadly virus spread to people from the saliva of infected animals. The rabies virus is usually transmitted through a bite. Rabies is usually spread through an animal bite. The animals, which most likely spread rabies, include dogs, bats, coyotes, foxes, skunks and raccoons. Symptoms include fever, headache, excess salivation, muscle spasms, paralysis and mental confusion. A person, who has been bitten by a rabid animal is advised to seek urgent medical attention after a bite or suspected bite. There is no specific treatment for rabies. Once symptoms appear, it’s nearly always fatal. A vaccine can prevent infection