TAIFA Stars Assistant Coach, Selemani Matola has commended the good work done by the team, after posting positive results away against Burundi, in the first leg of the African qualifying for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Fresh their exploits at the recent Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), Egypt 2019, Burundi and Tanzania sold out a good game but ended one-all at the Prince Louis Rwagasore Stadium in Bujumbura. The game marked an emotional home return for Tanzania Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije as he guided the Taifa Stars to play against his country of birth. After a barren first half, Burundi went ahead ten minutes before the final whistle, courtesy of a belter of a strike from Cedrick Amissi. However, some nerves at the back of host ‘Int’hamba Murugamba handed Taifa Stars a way back into the tie, when Simon Msuva pulled level. The away goal will be a sticky detail for Burundi and gives Taifa Stars an edge ahead of the return leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday. Burundi will need an outright win or a high scoring draw to go through to the group stages of the qualifiers. On the other hand, Etienne Ndayiragije’s charges will now need a win or barren draw at home, to sail through into the next stage of the qualifiers. Reacting after the match, Matola said the players followed the technical bench’s instructions and frustrated their hosts, especially in the first half. However, he was quick to warn players that the task is not over and challenged them to keep their focus. “In the second half, they (players) were a bit exhausted, allowing Burundi to take charge of the game and score the first goal of the match. Matola called on Tanzanians to fully support the team by flocking at the stadium on Sunday to motivate the players for them to finish off the task. “We promise Tanzanians that we won’t let them down and we believe the team has all what it takes to win the return leg and progress into the next stage of the 2022 FIFA Qatar World Cup qualifier group stage,” disclosed Matola. On his part Stars skipper, Mbwana Samatta, who is plying trade with Belgium topflight league side KRC Genk also praised his colleagues’ effort in the game he labeled as was tough and competitive. The skipper called upon all Tanzanians to continue supporting their team especially in the reverse game this weekend, insisting that the fans supports was vital in boosting the players’ morale and encourage them to accomplish their tasks. Taifa Stars veteran goalkeeper, Juma Kaseja predicted a tough return leg and called on his fellow players to be on their guard. He also cautioned the technical bench to ensure the work on the weakness emerged in the Bujumbura game, to ensure Stars emerge with victory on Sunday. “It will be tougher game compared to the first leg, we should not pull our legs off the gas until the task is completed,” said Kaseja. Stars squad was expected to jet back yesterday evening from Bujumbura and move straight away into camp to fine tune for the Sunday’s clash. Should Taifa Stars see off Burundi, they will be one of the 14 winners in the qualification playoffs to join the continent’s top-ranked 26 sides, who have been exempted from the preliminary stage of the long journey to Qatar. Qualifiers for the next World Cup in Qatar will be divided into three stages with two rounds of knockout ties on either side of league competition, officials said. The 28 lowest ranked sides on the continent will first contest a knockout round over two legs, with the 14 winners advancing to the group stage.