YOUNG Africans skipper Papy Tshishimbi said they must continue fighting hard for other upcoming matches amid early exit in the CAF Champions League over the weekend. Yanga missed the chance to progress into the group stage of the continent’s top club football competition after a 2-1 defeat from Zesco United at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola, Zambia which turned to be a 3-2 overall defeat by the Jangwani Street based side. It was the second leg of the two-legged tie which saw their first meeting at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam ending in a balance of 1-1, results which was advantage to the Zambians. However, despite the slump, Yanga have been squeezed into the CAF Confederation Cup and will be the only side to fly high the country’s flag in international contest following the exit of Azam FC who farewell the competition courtesy of a 1-0 loss to Zimbabwe’s Triangle FC on Saturday. Azam lost the first leg battle 1-0 at their Azam Complex Stadium in the city hence their opponents have advanced thanks to a 2-0 aggregate win. But, speaking after the tense match in Ndola, Tshishimbi said they need not to give up but rather continue working hard for other competitive games lined up for them. “We were told that Zesco United prefer using wings to penetrate into their opponent’s territory, we tried to prevent them from causing much trouble towards our goal but in the end, good luck fell on them,” he said. His words were encored by Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera who said their colleagues simply used well the chances they made to source the two goals which emerged them winners. “In the second half, we were a bit loose on the ball as we easily gave it away thereby attracting more pressure towards our territory unlike in the first half where the chemistry worked pretty well,” said the Congolese trainer. On his part, Zesco United Head Coach George Lwandamina showered praise to his former club saying they were tactically better during the second leg as compared to the first game. “They have shown improvement today (Saturday) and worked on their previous weaknesses which appeared in Dar es Salaam. Due to this, you saw that they were able to control the midfield such that we had to apply extra tactics to win back midfield dominance,” said him. In his remarks, the former Yanga midfielder Thabani Kamusoko conceded that his past club played well in midfield which consequently made them to use flanks during combat moments. Meanwhile, Yanga Communication Officer Hassan Bumbuli has disclosed that they have written the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to reschedule their Vodacom Premier League (VPL) match against Polisi Tanzania which was set on Wednesday. “We expect to have the full squad on Tuesday (tomorrow) hence the players will likely be exhausted to play a league match and hopefully, they (TFF) will positively reply us,” he said in an interview.