WE all remember the story of the boy who cried wolf but, do we know the story of the guy who claimed to be Garry when in actual fact he is Galavanted. And by that I actually mean he was given the name Garry by his parents because they heard it being said somewhere and they liked how it sounded. When Galavanted grew up and found out the true meaning of his name and knowing that a person is in fact their name, he opted to change it to Garry and thus assume a different, more sophisticated look and feel. But changing the name doesn’t change the essence of who you are, right? And no matter how hard one works on changing who they are, their true essence will always shine through. Charles Kinuthia, the Kenyan man who was this week convicted by a Kigali court for fleecing Rwandans, describes himself as an “accomplished and distinguished” chief executive officer of a “new national franchise company”, an entrepreneur, motivational speaker, leadership trainer, educator and mentor but a closer inspection of Mr Kinuthia found out he was everything but what he described. Also as a side note, he may have gotten away with it if it wasn’t Rwanda. Them Rwandese do not play this foolishness. A Kigali court found Kinuthia guilty of cheating Rwandans of money in fees $50 for the event that never took place, sentencing him to two years in jail with a fine of (approx.) $32,500. His three accomplices; Two Kenyan women and a Rwandan man were, acquitted. In the few articles I’ve read on this Kinuthia character there is a lot of half-baked information including one that says that , “he was recently honored with a PhD in the humanities, without mentioning the awarding institution” as well as, “he offers sketchy details on how he has made his great fortune”. When asked about what he does specifically, Kinuthia has previously said that he owns a software company “and several other companies here and there that we run around the world”, without divulging details. Born and raised in Kenya, Kinuthia claimed to have lived in Australia and Finland but doesn’t give many details of his background only that he has “experience”. Before his return to Kenya in 2017, Kinuthia had spent 14 years outside the country doing the same thing most have been doing since time immemorial, working to financially liberate his family. His problems began when he organised a highly publicised wealth conference in Kigali in May. Thousands of young Rwandans flocked the Kigali Convention Centre, lured by the $2,000 that was promised as an incentive for attending. It was later discovered that he meant that the $2,000 was actually meant as value of the training the attendants were to receive and not actual cash in hand. Before he could get himself out of it, the government stepped in, cancelled the event and pressed charges on him. Done deal, Galavanted had shown his true cards and he was caught, literally, and that is the end of that. Twitter: @ambylusekelo