THE 10th season of music talent show ‘Bongo Star Search’ (BSS) kicks off in Arusha today, as the organisers announce new judges, new approach and what they plan for the event as it hits a decade anniversary. It starts here with talent recruiting exercise to be conducted in Mianzini junction today and tomorrow, to conduct special talent recruiting exercise. Veteran Bongo flava artists, Judith Wambura (Lady Jaydee) and Abdul Sykes (Dully Sykes) have been anointed to serve as be adjudicators in the 2019’s Bongo Star Search. “We would like artists who can come up with traditional music, cultural equipment and roots sounds, that can create serious future musicians, not just some mere bubble-gum pop artists as it has been the norm,” said Sykes. As usual the ‘Bongo Star Search’ (BSS) runs under Benchmark Productions, with the company’s Managing Director, Rita Paulsen aka ‘Madam Rita’ said they are spending this entire weekend in Arusha to enlist new and upcoming talents from the City. “There are young people who can sing, but lack personalities to complement their artistic endeavours, other can’t sing but can represent themselves well; this time we want future artists who have those both qualities,” said Paulsen. The talent show marks its 10th anniversary, but throughout the decade, the show has never produced any winner from Arusha. The organisers hope this time some outstanding performers can be picked from other regions apart from the incumbent Dar es Salaam. Recruiting exercise will be done here by Bongo-flava music producer, Joachim Kimario (Master J) and the Chief BSS Judge, Rita Paulsen and the entire exercise is taking place at the ‘Fuzz Point Zone Resort,’ with Idris Sultan playing host. Arusha District Commissioner (DC), Gabriel Daqarro, who welcomed the delegation here, advised Bongo Star Search entourage to also visit local schools. “Next time you should involve local education institutions because that is where you can get real talents,” he said. After Arusha, the talent search will head to Mwanza, Mbeya, Kigoma and later Dar es Salaam. The BSS programmes will be aired through ‘Star Swahili’ channel of StarTimes, which is the main sponsor of the talent show.