OUR East African Community (EAC) member countries will represent the bloc in the group stage of the 2022 World Cup qualifier for Africa after the weekend results in the various venues. Tanzania joined neighbours Kenya and Uganda who got byes courtesy of their superior positions in the FIFA World rankings while Rwanda, who won 3-0 away in Victoria, Seychelles are 90 per cent sure of qualification in their return leg match later today in Kigali. But other two members of the bloc; Burundi and South Sudan were not fortunate to advance after losing to Tanzania and Equatorial Guinea respectively. Burundi misery was arguably brought by veteran goalkeeper Juma Kaseja who was the hero for Tanzania who edged Burundi 3-0 on penalties to reach the next round of F IF A World Cup Q atar 2022 qualifiers. The 34-year old saved Omar Ngando’s penalty to send the Taifa Stars into the next round after a 1-1 draw tied the result 2-2 on aggregate. Away venue in the Equatorial Guinea capital Malabo was bitter for South Sudan, the sixth member of the EAC. Emilio Nsue scored the only goal as Equatorial Guinea beat South Sudan and advance 2-1 on aggregate. The teams drew 1-1 in the first leg match staged in Juba five days earlier. U nless miracles happen, Rwanda, who host Seychelles in K igali today, have qualified to the group stage by 95 per cent following their 3-0 win away in Victoria. Rwanda registered a comfortable away victory past the Seychelles thanks to a 3-0 score line at Stade Linite in V ictoria last Thursday. Amavubi as the Rwandans are nicknamed dominated from the start as they enjoyed plenty of possession led by their midfielder playmaker Belgium based Hadjiri Hakizimana against a Seychelles side which had eight debutants and under the watch of interim coach Dutchman Jan Mak. The half cleared corner taken by Jacques Tuyisenge which Gerick Vidot failed to clear met captain Hakizimana, who rifled his fierce shot which beat Seychelles goalie Romeo Barra to set the tone. Yannick Mukunzi added his team’s second in the 42nd from Tuyisenge set up. Medie K agere who broke from midfield fired the ball past a bemused Barra to seal victory.