EXPORT Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) has urged Tanzania and Uganda business community to establish processing industries through special economic zones for goods value addition, to reduce exportation of raw materials. In Tanzania, investors investing in special economic zones are guaranteed opportunities provided through the authority’s facilities where 80 per cent of the processed products are for export markets. The Senior Investment Promotion Officer at EPZA, Mr Panduka Yonaz, made the call during a presentation to the Tanzania-Uganda business forum that ended in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. He said that special economic zones contribute to building up industrial production output with high impact on export, trade and employment. “Special economic zones may contribute significantly to the transformation of social economic development, building up industrial production output and rapid industrial upgrade with high impact on export trade and employment,” he said, adding that the export of raw goods is uneconomical, plunging them into losses. The two-day Tanzania- Uganda business forum attracted over 500 delegates from the East African region and also other global organisations. Mr Yonaz said EPZA is there to facilitate the establishment of industries through the special economic zones and export processing zones to tap immense opportunities and benefits. He said that through the Tanzania-Uganda business forum, EPZA displayed some of the goods produced through the special economic zones and export processing zones in order to give them confidence. He said EAC regional integration is an important platform that offers huge market opportunities for investors, to attract more investment inflows into partner States for building strong industrial base. “Establishing more strategic special economic zones and export processing zones in the region, with such a bigger market opportunity, is vital and can hook more investment to benefit the economies of partner States,” he noted. He said that the increased manufactured export led products will definitely boost the country’s foreign exchange earnings to benefit the economy as well as making the country’s local currency more strong. He underscored the need of bringing onboard the participation of local private sector in order to achieve industrial sustainability and building inclusive industrial economy.