DEFENDING champions Simba registered their second straight victory in the Mainland Premier League with a 2-1win over Mtibwa Sugar at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Substitute Miraji Athumani second half strike sealed the victory for Simba after Rifat Msuya cancelled out Meddie Kagere’s lead in the first half. Following the victory, Simba moved three points clear at the summit of the league of the 20-team league with six points from two matches. Simba were eying to maintain their perfect start to the season and to pocket vital three points to make it six points after two games. Simba opened the league season with a resounding 3-1 win over JKT Tanzania at the Uhuru Stadium on August 28th this year. For Mtibwa Sugar, it was their second consecutive defeat in the league after losing 3-1 to Lipuli FC at Samora Stadium in Iringa in their league opener clash. And as expected, it was a tough match as Mtibwa Sugar who always give Simba a rough ride when they meet, were aiming to record their first victory of the season. It was a strong start for Simba and Zambian midfielder, Clatous Chama will live to remember a wasted opportunity just six minutes into the game, when he found himself face to face with keeper, Shaaban Kado but he shot straight into the waiting hands of the goalie. Simba enjoyed the lion share of possession in the first half creating about six corners kicks in the early opening exchanges but they failed to turn them into goals. And, after pressing hard, Simba were in front after 17th minute, when Kagere easily tapped home a flicked pass from Sharaf Shiboub, who had reacted swiftly to reach onto a perfect cross from Hassan Dilunga, who had the better of Salum Kanoni on the left side. It was Kagere’s third goal of the season. However, the goal lasted for just three minutes as Msuya pulled level. The scorer rose above Erasto Nyoni and Tairone Santos da Silva to nod home a corner kick by Ismail Mhesa, leaving goalkeeper Aishi Manula diving in haplessly. In the 32nd minute, Kagere ought to have scored his second of the day but was denied by agile Kado. The deadly striker back heel was blocked on the line by Kado. It followed a slick move by Simba, when Clatous Chama clever ball found Shomari Kapombe unmarked wide and the defender’s cross in found Kagere in space. Then in the 37th minute, Shiboub and Chama combined well but the Zambian’s low shot was easily collected by Kado. Simba were dominant in the midfield but lacked intensity in the final third. After the break, Simba maintained their dominance and were on high gear searching for the second. Kado was called off line to timely block Muzamiru Yassin’s shot in the 52nd minute and the keeper also bravely came off his line seconds later, to stop goal bound Hassan Dilunga. After an hour mark, Simba tactician Patrick Aussems introduced Miraji Athumani for Dilunga and the changes immediately proved fruitful for Simba as they upped their tempo in attack. In the 66th minute Kagere almost beat Dickson Daud to the ball but outstanding goalie Kado was alerted to block the move. Two minutes earlier, Simba missed from a sitter when a cross from Chama failed to find Kagere and Athumani in space. Simba were rewarded in the 68th minute, when Athumani powered home for the second after being set clear by Shiboub. Simba came with much more intensity in the second half especially after the introduction of Athumani, whose pace stretched Mtibwa Sugar defenders to the limit. In the 77th minute, Kapombe charged into the box but Kado came off his line to clutch the ball away and rescue the situation. Another chance went begging when substitute Francis Kahata, who replaced Chama failed to connect Yassin’s dead ball in the box. Simba introduced Jonas Mkude for Shiboub, while Mtibwa brought in Abdul Haule and Henry Joseph for Mhesa and Issa Rashid respectively. In another match held at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga, Coastal Union beat KMC 2-0. It was second defeat to KMC, who lost their opening match to Azam FC 1-0, while Costal Union lost their first match to Polisi Tanzania 1-0. Today, Namungo FC will be at home -- Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi hosting Singida United, JKT Tanzania will take on Lipuli FC at Isamuhyo ground located in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam, whereas Mbao FC will battle it out against neighbours Biashara United at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. The action continues tomorrow as Ndanda FC entertains Mwadui FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara, while Tanzania Prisons will be at their territory Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya confronting Ruvu Shooting. At CCM Kirumba, Alliance FC will host Kagera Sugar.