THE Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA), is rolling out special housing loans to enable low-income individuals build and own decent homes. That was revealed during the CBA Customer Day held at the Mount Meru Hotel, Saturday night, where the bank’s management met with their clients to retrospect on how the financial institution has so far performed and gather customers’ views on what they feel should be included in future services. The Head of CBA Personal Banking, Marketing and Communications, Julius Konyani, said they have realized that most Tanzanians fall under the low income bracket but all aspire to have their own decent homes. “That is why our bank has come up with special housing loans to help people invest in modern homes; They can service their loans for up to 20 years through a series of installments,” said Konyani, adding that almost all Tanzanians can afford it. CBA seems to be taking over from where the former State-owned Tanzania Housing Bank (THB), left, when it closed down 30 years ago. THB used to be a financial institution fully dedicated to real estate investments. The other thing discussed during the CBA event is the issue of personal loans, where it was revealed that the bank has upped the amount from the previous 50 million/- ceiling to 100 million/-as per their customers’ demand. Speaking during the occasion, the CBA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Gift Shoko, said the CBA Customer Day is meant to express gratitude to their clients. “It affirms the importance which our bank places on customers and we are here to get their views on how they would like to be served; This is also a network platform where different customers can meet, share ideas and exchange information regarding their trade and business ventures,” added Mr Shoko. Prudence Kaijage, one of the CBA customers who attended the event said, “Almost all people in Tanzania focus on having their own homes; Some work for their entire life just to save enough to build a house,” he said. “CBA understands when it comes to dealing with clients, they understand individuals’ positions and predicaments and usually advise accordingly upon securing loans,” Kaijage stated