The Centre of Excellence in ICT for East Africa (CENIT@ EA), is in negotiations to partner with IBM in research activities. Africa Skills Initiative IBM Programme Manager (East Africa), Wahome Gathondu has already visited the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST), in Arusha, where the centre is located. Mr Gathondu visited the Vice-Chancellor of NMAIST, Prof Anthony Mshandete, the main purpose being to set up a baseline for a Memorandum of Understanding between IBM and CENIT@EA to further research activities in embedded and mobile systems and other ICT related fields at NMAIST. Prof Mshandete said the entry point for collaboration was the newly established CENIT@EA). He further mentioned that collaboration was crucial for creating sustainable research and innovation systems that in turn created lasting impact on society and industry. During their talks, Prof Mshandete asked Mr Wahome to look into the possibility of having an IBM research lab at NM-AIST as the institution was determined to become the ICT hub in East Africa and Africa at large. The meeting was also attended by Mr Simon Hoschstein, Programme Manager of CENIT@EA from GIZ, Dr Kisangiri Michael, Centre Leader at NM-AIST and other members of CENIT@EA at NM-AIST. With about 80 per cent of the people in EAC being 35 years old or younger, the majority of the population is considered to be digital natives. As it is in the whole of Africa, mobile networks collectively have emerged as a platform of choice for creating, distributing and using innovative digital solutions and services in the EAC region, imposing the necessity of urgent industrial transformation, which requires intervention in skills development and improved employment opportunities. Under CENIT@EA project’s first intake, 27 students have been selected competitively from the EAC member states, including Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. However, there is no representation from South Sudan. Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, recently said the government of Tanzania was eagerly waiting to see the substantial contribution of the centre in the currently fast growing mobile and embedded technologies and its applications in solving problems in various socioeconomic growth sectors. He mentioned these as including, but not limited, to the financial sector, electronic money transactions, security systems, industries, transport and others. She said the government believed that building capacity in science, technology and innovations was the only way to achieving sustainable development and that had its special position in feeding global sustainable development goals and that was not a far-fetched dream.