TAIFA Stars Assistant Coach Juma Mgunda said their focus now is on the upcoming Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) match against Sudan on September 20th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The return leg is expected to be played on October 18th this year in Khartoum, Sudan which will see overall winners in both legs sailing into the next stage of the contest, which is strictly meant for domestic based players. Coming fresh from dumping out Burundi in the 2022 FIFA World Cup Q atar qualifying game on a 3-0 postmatch penalties shootouts after a 2-2 aggregate score, Stars need to recharge the battery to ensure that they sweep aside Sudan in both legs. Already described as a team to watch, fully armed Taifa Stars are set to enter in camp on Saturday to start initial rehearsals prior to entertaining their Sudanese counterparts knowing in advance that a home victory will simplify the reverse duel. To reach this far, Stars triumphed over Kenya's Harambee Stars 4-1 on post-match penalties during a second leg hot clash played at Moi Stadium in Kenya. Both legs held in Dar es Salaam and Kenya ended scoreless thereby attracting spot kicks to break the tie. Speaking recently here, Mgunda said they have now put much focus on the Sudan match in order to do well and move forward. “We have another important match which we must win to progress further in CHAN competition. As the technical bench, all our focus have been directed towards the upcoming Sudan encounter,” he said. Adding, the coach said that they are going to address some of the problems which surfaced during Burundi match as a step forward to make sure that they produce nothing less than victory. He again lauded all Tanzanians for rallying behind Taifa Stars during their battles to jump into the group stages of the 2022 FIFA World Cup Q atar saying their support contributed much to the team's victory. “We remained together as a country making sure that we progress into the next round of the contest. This loyalty should continue for many years to come because it identifies us as Tanzanians. We are known globally due to our loyalty," Mgunda said. He also disclosed that the few games they guide Stars have been memorable not only to him but the entire technical bench such that they are looking for more positives to come.-