THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the life imprisonment sentence imposed on a Mbeya City resident Moses Mwakasindile, for trafficking in 138 bundles of catha edulis, commonly known as mirungi (khat) weighing 42.44Kg are narcotic drugs valued at 2,122,000/-. Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Barke Sahel ruled against Mwakasindile, the appellant, after dismissing all grounds of appeal he had lodged in attempt to fault the findings of the High Court, which had conducted the trial in the first instance. “We do not find any basis on which to fault the findings of the trial court. The appeal is evidently bereft of merit. In consequence, we dismiss it in its entirety,” they declared in their judgment delivered in Mbeya Registry recently. During hearing of the appeal, the appellant had complained, among others that in sufficient evidence to hold him responsible, broken chain of custody of the drugs and violation of the law during recording of his cautioned statement and the preparation of seizure certificate of the bag contained the drugs. On whether the appellant was found in possession of the bag alleged to have been seized from him on boarding a bus, the justices examined the respective testimonies of prosecution witnesses and that of co-accused, who said they were all on the bus when the search was conducted. They said that it was on the record that while the driver of the bus and one of passengers adduced that the seized bag belonged to the appellant, the bus conductor, who was also charged in the case had testified as defence witness and insisted that no passenger other than the appellant had the sulphate bag. “Going by the evidence of (witnesses), the appellant did not, then, deny ownership of the baggage. As we find no exceptional circumstances to warrant disturbing the trial court’s finding based on the believability of the witnesses, we find no merit in the ground of appeal, which we dismiss,” they ruled. On the complaint relating the search and seizure of the baggage, the justices reviewed available evidence and wholly endorse the view of the trial Judge and find that, the search was rightly carried out. The certificate, they noted, was duly signed by the appellant as well as two independent witnesses. As on the question of chain of custody, the justices carefully examined the evidence on record. It was on the record, based on the evidence that the contraband was seized from the appellant as he was travelling on a Fuso bus on January 11, 2015 in the morning at Inyala area in Mbeya Region. Thereafter, the seized bag was taken all the way to the Central Police Station, where, after being inspected and verified in the presence of the appellant and other prosecution witnesses, it was handed over to the police, who stored it in the Exhibits Room under lock. Guided by the above standpoint, the justices were in full agreement with the prosecution that the contraband in issue, was of a kind that does not change hands easily and that there was no danger of it being destroyed, polluted or tampered with. “We are fortified in our view by the evidence of all persons that handled the seized baggage from seizure to its exhibition in court serves to assure that the bag was not interfered with. The first ground of appeal is without substance. We dismiss it,” they said. Facts of the case show that Benjamin Darson was the driver of a FUSO passenger bus on January 10, 2015 on its way to Mbeya from Dar es Salaam. His conductor was Stephen Ndunguru, who subsequently became the appellant’s co-accused.