PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has called opon Tanzanians to continue supporting the national team whenever they compete at the international tournaments. Moving a motion to adjourn parliamentary sessions until November 5th this year, Premier Majaliwa made the call at Bunge saying the government is impressed with the recent performance of the national team, Taifa Stars. “We are really pleased with the team’s feat after knocking out Kenya and Burundi in their recent assignments,” said Majaliwa. Taifa Stars knocked out Kenya in the Africa Nations Championships (CHAN) after losing 4-1 to Tanzania in the post-match penalty shootouts at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi on August 4th this year after a barren draw in regulation time. Stars had drawn 0-0 in the first leg match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Premier Majaliwa has called on Tanzanians to fill the venue to the brim to ensure Taifa Stars qualify for the CHAN finals for the second time in history. Etienne Ndayiragije charges also knocked out Burundi in the 2022 World Cup qualifiers for Africa and sailed into the group stages after posting a 3-0 win on post-match penalty shootouts at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday. Prime Minister also lauded national Under-20 women football team, ‘Tanzanite’ for winning COSAFA title in Port Elizabeth, South Africa recently. He also praised Young Africans, Azam FC and Zanzibar’s Malindi FC for progressing into the first round of CAF inter clubs competitions, while calling on KMC KMKM and Simba, who have been knocked out of the competitions to take it as challenge and come up strongly next time. The Premier also lauded two Tanzanian boxers – Abdallah Shaban Pazi alias ‘Dulla Mbabe’ and Bruno Tarimo a.k.a ‘Vifua Viwili’ for emerging victorious in their respective international fights recently. Dulla Mbabe won WBO by TKO after knocking out Chinese opponent Zulipiker Maimaitiali at Qingdao Hall in China recently, while Tarimo beat the Serbian to win World championship in Serbia.