A MAN who is currently serving 30 years in Prison for raping a 12 year old minor has been awarded 300,000/- as fair compensation for moral prejudice he suffered when he was denied free legal assistance at Domestic Courts. Majid Goa alias Vedastus was awarded the sum by the African Court of Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), recently after agreeing with part of his application against the United Republic of Tanzania, alleging that the State denied him free legal assistance during the trial and appellate proceedings. He sought reparations to rectify the alleged violations. The Court, in its judgment, ordered the Respondent State to pay the said amount free from tax within six months of the notification of the judgment, and report to the Court on the implementation thereof every six months until full implementation. The judges found that the applicant should have been provided with free legal assistance, because he was accused of a serious crime, which carried a heavy custodial sentence. However, the Court declined another key prayer from him, he had requested to remedy the violations he alleged by ordering his release from prison. The Court declined to make that order because the applicant did not sufficiently demonstrate nor did the Court establish that his conviction and sentencing were based on arbitrary considerations leading to determine that his continued incarceration was being unlawful. The applicant had alleged that the Respondent State violated his rights under Articles 2, 3(1) and (2) and 7(1)(c) and (d) of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. The Respondent State had earlier on objected to the jurisdiction of the Court and the admissibility of the application, objections that were refused by the Court. The Court also rejected the Respondent State’s contention that the applicant could have pursued the constitutional petition available at the High Court because that remedy, as structured in the Respondent State’s judicial system, is considered an extraordinary remedy, which the Applicant was not required to exhaust. The Court decided that the applicant having seized the Court of Appeal, the highest judicial organ of the Respondent State, he had exhausted local remedies. It as well refused the Respondent State’s claim that the application was inadmissible because the applicant took too long to take his claim to the Court. Goa was convicted and sentenced to such jail term on December 20th 2005 by the High Court of Tanzania at Mwanza and he is now serving his sentence at Butimba Central Prison, Mwanza. The Court dismissed the objection on the grounds that the applicant being in Prison, restricted in his movements, with limited access to information, having had no legal assistance throughout his trial and appeals and having used the review procedure, justified the failure to file his application earlier. The Court was also satisfied that the record showed that all other conditions of admissibility as set out in Article 56 of the African Charter and Rule 40 of the Rules had been complied with.