THE Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation yesterday launched its third annual Goalkeepers Data Report, showing that while progress on health and development continues unabated, global inequality remains a major barrier to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The report shows that solid progress in health and development has continued around the world. Even in the worst-off parts of lowincome and low-middleincome countries, more than 99 per cent of communities have seen an improvement in child mortality and schooling. According to the report, despite the progress, persistent gaps in opportunities mean that nearly half a billion people or about one in every 15 of the global population, still do not have access to basic health and education. It further reveals that the gaps between countries, districts and boys and girls prove that the world’s investments in development aren’t reaching everyone. Using new sub-national data, the report uncovers vast inequalities within countries that are masked by averages. “As we write, billions of people are projected to miss the targets that we all agreed to represent a decent life,” Bill and Melinda Gates write in the report which they co-authored. They added: “We believe that seeing where the world is succeeding will inspire leaders to do more and seeing where the world is falling short will focus their attention.” To address persistent inequality, Bill and Melinda Gates call for a new approach to development, targeting the poorest people in the countries and districts that need to make up the most ground. Governments should prioritise primary healthcare to deliver a health system that works for the poorest, digital governance to ensure that governments are responsive to their least-empowered citizens and more support for farmers to help them mitigate climate change effects. Bill and Melinda Gates will produce the Goalkeepers Data Report every year through 2030, timing it to the annual gathering of world leaders in New York City for the UN General Assembly. The report is designed to track progress in achieving SDGs, highlight examples of success and inspire leaders across the world to make more efforts to achieve SDGs