TANZANIA Meteorological Agency (TMA), Regional Coordinator, Stephen Malundo has cautioned Kagera residents to ensure they clear trenches and those living in flood-prone areas to shift to uplands ahead of heavy rain expected to start early next month. Mr Malundo told reporters that normal and above normal rain was predicted to start in the second week of October and there would be more rain that would combine with that of October-December. “Farmers should utilise the rain to plant fast maturing crops such as maize, beans, millet and sorghum. People living in valleys and flood-prone areas should shift to uplands. Councils should sensitise people to clear trenches to allow water to flow easily. At least two people were swept by floods during the heavy rain that hit the region in April-May this year,” he said. There is a need to utilise the rain as there are indications that many parts of the country are likely to receive erratic rains due to climate change and environmental degradation. Climate change has disrupted the earth’s hydrological cycle (water cycle), changing when, where and how much precipitation falls. This has made water management planning more challenging. Droughts have also become more frequent, severe and affecting more people across the world. The impact is likely to worsen as a result of climate change. Fourteen of the world’s 20 megacities experience water scarcity. As many as four billion people already live in regions that experience severe water stress for at least one month of the year, according to a study (2016), in the journal Science Advances. Yet, what many people don’t realise is that typical home use of water for washing, flushing and cooking represents only about three per cent of humanity’s total water consumption. Agriculture uses 80-90 per cent, followed by energy, production and industries. Rampant felling of forests due to human activities should be controlled immediately to avert looming desertification. Climate change induced floods cause about $2bn damage, killing hundreds of people every year and without adequate investment in solid waste management it is expected to worsen.