THERE are notable efforts being made to make Tanzania develop and become an industrial and middle-income economy by 2025. Leaders from national to village level and citizens across the country are involved in one activity or another to make it a reality for reaching the stage we envision will benefit all Tanzanians from all walks of life. So, what we need though is to keep the fire burning so that we don’t slow down as doing so will have an adverse effect on the entire process. We have decided to transform our nation and so we have to cooperate to ensure we get what we need and be what we want to be–to realise our development agenda. While we see things moving in the right direction, there are other areas, which we think we have to remind each other so that these too start moving in the right direction and then maintain it.We have in mind cleanliness. President John Magufuli once directed that we all participate in cleaning our compounds and streets and we seemed to be all supportive of this forward looking cleanliness campaign and even it was agreed that citizens set aside some time during their week to engage in cleanliness. At the beginning we somehow seemed to have internalised it, but later on started slowing down. In some parts of Dar es Salaam (and in other cities and towns too), for instance, we still find some heaps of uncollected waste laying by the street or main roads, especially near markets, shops and bus stops. We have decide to take this up again to remind ourselves without pointing an accusing finger at any person because we know cleanliness has first to do with each one of us-personal hygiene. This means that often what we are can easily be influenced on other people and slowly, but steadily, it may end up being a habit of many citizens. At many bus stops, shops and markets we can still pieces of rubbish like paper, tins, pieces of cloth, food, cigarettes, commuter bus tickets and bottles of drinking water, among other things, left lying in public place. Yet, there is at least a 50,000/-fine imposed on a person littering a public place. This means there are people, who are ready to pay the fine rather than keep the public place tidy. This shows that many citizens haven’t taken on board the cleanliness campaign. Of course, there is no miracle for being clean. If at all there is a miracle of being clean, it starts with a change of our mindset and attitude. It is in light of this, that we think we have to change and believe that the place, where we work, are in or where we live, deserves to look cleaner than what it really looks now and this includes the commercial capital city, Dar es Salaam, one of the fastest growing cities in Africa and world at large. If this sticks in our mind, then for sure we will stop littering public places and it will only then we will be sure of keeping our homes, offices and public places clean. Let’s do it right now.