MAINLAND’s Ngorongoro Heroes have one leg into the knockout stage of the 2019 CECAFA U-20 Challenge Cup, following a 2-2 draw with Kenya at the FUFA Technical Centre in Njeru, Jinja, Uganda yesterday. Heroes had to comeback from behind twice in the yesterday’s game to force share a point with the ‘Rising Stars’. The Kenyan side under coach Stanley Okumbi scored the opener in the 26 th minute courtesy of Austin Odhiambo but Ngorongoro Heroes pulled level in the 37th minute through Albert Simchimba. It was Simchimba’s fourth goal of the campaign as he netted a hat-trick in Ngorongoro Heroes 4-0 win over Ethiopia in their opening match at the same venue on Sunday. Before the equliser, Heroes who are under the tutelage of Z ubeiry Katwila, wasted two clear chances. The first was in the 13th minute, when Kelvin John fired wide and two minutes later, Simchimba also saw thunderbolt hit the crossbar. After the break, both teams came stronger, hunting for the victory and it was Kenya, who regained their lead in the 53rd minute through Patrick Otieno. However, Kenya defence conceded the second goal after just three minutes thanks to Abdul Hamis’ strike. From then, Ngorongoro Heroes pilled pressure in search for the winner. Coach Katwila introduced Said Suleiman Luyaya for Simchimba with ten minutes to go but the game ended in a draw. The draw left the pair pooled in group B with four points with each side having one foot into the quarterfinals. In their opening match, Kenya thrashed Z anzibar 5-0. Each side has one game left to decide their fate. Kenya’s next and final assignment in the group stage will be against Ethiopia, while Ngorongoro Heroes will entertain their compatriots Zanzibar tomorrow. The match will determine the group winner with both sides currently level on everything. Meanwhile in group C matches Burundi had become the first side to seal a place into the knockout phase of tournament after picking a hard-fought 2-1 win over Somalia on Monday. Burundi goals were netted by skipper, Hamimu Hakizimana and Louis Romeo Ndunimana respectively while second-half substitute Ahmed Abdullahi Abdi got the consolation for Somalia. Burundi had earned a point in their opening game against South Sudan and a 2-1 victory against Somalia meant they advanced to the next stage. Somalia needs to win against South Sudan today to stand any chance of qualifying to the next stage. It should be noted that group C has only three teams and the top two qualify to the quarterfinals. Hosts Uganda Hippos humbled Djibouti 5-1 in a Group A duel at Pece Stadium in Gulu, Northern Uganda on Monday. Offensive midfielder Steven Sserwadda netted a brace with the other goals coming from forward Ivan Bogere, right back Justine Opiro and second-half substitute Isma Mugulusi.