TOP local musician, Peter Msechu has composed an official song for the 4th edition of the East African Community Arts and Culture Festival, popularly known as Jumuiya ya Africa Mashariki Utamaduni Festival (JamaFest). JamaFest 2019 will be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam from September 21st to 28th this year and preparations to host the event are already in high gear. According to the organisers, the theme of JamaFest 2019 is “Cultural Diversity: A Key Driver to Regional Integration, Economic Growth and Promotion of Tourism”. Msechu wrote on his Instagram page that he is pleased after the organisers picked his, as an official song for the festival, which comes to Tanzania for the first time since it was launched in 2011. The musician said he composed the song in response to a call made by the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports. The ministry requested artists to develop the festival theme song. The event specifically aims at showing East Africa’s cultural diversity. “I’m honoured to see my song picked for the event. It was not easy because several other musicians also submitted their songs for the same,” said Msechu. He said at the moment, he is preparing a video for song that will be used to create hype for people in the country and region at large to keenly follow up events at the biennial festival. Chairman of the JamaFest 2019 National Organising Committee, Joyce Fissoo said a good number of artists had submitted their songs and the competition was stiff. Fissoo said that as host partner state, Tanzania was tasked to develop the festival theme song and will be performed at the official opening of the festival. She lauded Msechu for coming up with the best song. Late last week, Minister for Information, Sports, Arts and Culture, Harrison Mwakyembe said Tanzania is ready and will host a memorable event, in which more than 100,000 people will attend. He said preparations are in high gear with various activities lined up including a performance by Diamond Platnumz and Saida Karoli among others. Recently, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Susan Mlawi, said Tanzania would greatly be honoured to host the 4th Edition of JamaFest and was committed to deliver a successful festival. The PS underscored the significance of JamaFest as a platform for fostering regional socio-cultural integration in East Africa. She reiterated the role of JamaFest in promoting unity in diversity, sharing cross-cultural experiences and dialogues, cultural exchanges and for celebrating the rich and diverse cultures and heritage of the people of East Africa. She urged the organizers to also use the event to promote Kiswahili as the lingua franca of the Community, adding that the festival was key to promoting economic growth, tourism and regional integration. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, in collaboration with the Private Sectors and NGOs’ has earmarked September each year exclusively for heritage celebrations. These celebrations, which are branded “Urithi Festival: Celebrating Our Heritage” will be joined with JamaFest and form a Collaboration. JamaFest was first held in 2013, in Rwanda and it was attended by 17,500 people, it shifted to Kenya 2015 and attended by 21,000 people. In 2017 Uganda played host to the event with 46,500 people attending.