EXPORT markets for the government procured cashew nuts have been secured, with 130bn/- sales already recorded. President John Magufuli said in Dar es Salaam on Monday that the cash crop that the government purchased directly from farmers during the last harvest season is being shipped overseas. “Two ships have already collected the sold cashew nuts,” President Magufuli said, appreciating the efforts by Industry and Trade Minister Innocent Bashungwa to look for the markets of the produce, which had remained in stock for quite long. Dr Magufuli said that after the two ships, more vessels are expected to come and collect more cashew nuts. Several efforts were made to find the market for the cash crop preserved in various warehouses after the government deployed the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) to collect them from farmers. Last year, the president ordered the purchase of all cashew harvests from farmers at a flat rate price of 3,300/- per kilogramme through the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB). The decision was reached after the government issued a four-day ultimatum to traders to buy the crop after farmers had rejected the traders’ prices. Tanzania is among the world’s largest producers of cashew nuts, having recorded total production of 313,826 tonnes in the 2017/18 crop season. Cashew nut is the leading cash crop export in the country followed by tea, coffee and sisal. Cashew nut production in Tanzania during the last harvest season—2017/2018— stood at about 240,000 tonnes, with the government buying 213,000 tonnes. About 90 per cent of the cashew nuts are exported in their raw form due to the country’s low processing capacity. To boost local processing, Tanzania is looking for investors to add value on the nuts and produce products like cashew nut cheese or butter, sweets, fruit drinks or distilled liquor, lubricants, waterproofing and paints. Tanzania also wants investors for new plantations aimed at increasing production and total tonnage, suppliers of machinery, equipment, spare parts and investors to put up industrial parks and develop cashew nut processing industrial zones.