UTT AMIS yesterday launched its bond fund to give more room to investors to invest in various bonds, including treasury bonds and corporate bonds. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), of the Capital Markets and Securities Authority (CMSA), Nicodemus Mkama said the UTT AMIS bond fund would provide opportunities to investors in Tanzania, East Africa and beyond to invest in the country. “I believe this will stimulate more provision of services on investments,” he stated at the launching ceremony in Dar es Salaam. He said the launching of the bond proved the financial sector, particularly capital markets, had many stakeholders who support the government’s efforts of putting in place enabling environment and better policies aimed at boosting investment through the capital markets which will consequently improve the financial sector in general. The UTT AMIS has been given permission to introduce the Bond Fund under the Capital Markets and Securities (Collective Investment Schemes), Regulations of 1997. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Doto James challenged CMSA to embark on public education on the benefits of investing in bonds as a way to developing saving culture and take part in the national economic development through fully taking part in the collective investment schemes. He said at the launching event, that even though good job has so far been done of attaining the current over 145,000 investors, the number was still low compering to nearly 55 million Tanzanians. “You should create awareness to the general public on the opportunities available in investing in capital markets of taking part economic ownership through investments and its related profits and safety of their money and being part of the industrial economy,” he said. Mr James promised that his ministry would sign a performance agreement with the UTT-AMIS to push for performance by bringing on board more Tanzanians take part in the stock market. The Managing Director of UTT-AMIS, Mr Simon Migangala assured the PS that in the newly launched unit trust scheme namely bond fund, all plans were carefully thought to ensure that more Tanzanians including those in rural areas can grab chance of investing in the new scheme. “UTT-AMIS is looking to widen the participation of all Tanzanians by putting initial investment to as low as 50,000/- where bond fund offers annual, semiannual and monthly income distribution,” Migangala said. According to him, those investing 10m/-would be eligible for monthly income distribution, 5m/-investors’ eligibility are for receiving semiannual income distribution while the bond fund will as well cater for investors who will invest 50,000/-and above who will in turn be benefiting capital appreciation. Revealing more efforts, Migangala said that the part of rural prospective investors are having an opportunity of investing by using mobile phones to invest in Bond funds without impediments of travelling long distances to reach their office