SOUTHERN African Development Community (SADC) member states envisage devising a satellite system to enable member states and entire region to fully control its information network. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe made the revelation on the sidelines of the first SADC Ministerial Meeting on ICT, Information, Transport and Meteorology, which started in Dar es Salaam yesterday through this Friday. The three-day cluster meeting of senior officials and permanent secretaries from the sectors will have its deliberations forwarded to the ministerial meeting for further action on September 19 and 20. According to Engineer Kamwelwe, the system will help the countries to have direct control of its information sent from one place to another. He cited an example of one sending information through the internet within the country but due to lack of supportive system, the information is first sent abroad before reaching its right destination. “The region has good and qualified experts, well equipped universities and competent youth who will deliberate on the matter and come up with concrete results to foster the economic development of the region,” said Engineer Kamwelwe. He observed that the goal is not for the countries to lock themselves but rather have its the world. He cited the Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) that has invented two formulas, which are currently being used across the world. Engineer Kamwelwe added that member states are working hard to serve the interest of people while fostering business among the region, adding that the goal is to help build ample infrastructure to connect the region on areas including information, ICT and soft forms. Other issues for deliberation include impacts of climate change, which had previously led to the devastating impacts of cyclone Idai and Keneth in countries, including Mozambique, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi. He further said that due to technological advancement, countries could receive alerts and share it amongst member states for earlier disaster preparedness while overcoming shocks and great harm to people and properties. SADC Secretariat Director of infrastructure Mapolao Mokoena pointed out that infrastructure development should be prioritised as a strategic support and enabler to regional integration. She applauded Tanzania for the initiative taken to place infrastructure as among key priorities in its development agenda.