SOUTHERN African Development Community’s (SADC) cluster meeting of senior officials and permanent secretaries continued yesterday, with introduction of standardised vehicle axle load control in the region dominating the discussions. The meeting that has attracted experts from ICT, transport and meteorology sectors will end today before the ministerial meeting starts tomorrow and Friday. Addressing reporters on the sidelines of the meeting in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications (Transport) Dr Leonard Chamuriho said the aim is to have a harmonised road transport system within the East Africa Community (EAC) and SADC region. He argued that the system will facilitate development of a more competitive, integrated and liberalised regional road transport market in the East and Southern African region. Dr Chamuriho observed that within the EAC there is an agreement to have an excess five per cent on the vehicle axle load while the cargo should not surpass the required capacity with the aim of maintaining and protecting roads. “The issue has led to a prolonged discussion with delegates from SADC member states recommending an extra two per cent on the vehicle axle load to be increased… it was agreed that the issue be set aside for further discussions later,” noted Dr Chamuriho. He pointed out that the resolutions which will be reached from the senior officials meeting will be presented to the ministerial meeting on September 19 and 20, 2019 . If passed, the resolutions will create a basis for recommendations to the Heads of State for action. Other areas which were discussed in the previous two days of the meeting include ICT, information, air transport and meteorology. Director of Economic Regulation at Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) Daniel Malanga, one of the participants to the meeting, said other issues that attracted discussions include the execution of the Y amoussoukro Declaration and the Google loon. Y amoussoukro Declaration addresses liberalisation of access to air transport markets in Africa. The SADC member states therefore have an obligation to implement the framework within the region. “But, before their skies are open for the entire African countries, member states have focused on understanding the framework with the focus being on business and not political pressure,” said Mr Malanga, adding that the deliberations aimed at ensuring implementation that promotes a win-win business in the region.