CPA Africa region has resolved to invest into a Hotel business by building one of a Five Star class in Dodoma City. That was said here yesterday by CPA Board’s Chairperson, Mr Job Ndugai, who is also the National Assembly Speaker, further noting that the idea was based the advice from investment specialists after analyzing available options in the city. He said that they also reached the decision after their convened meeting recently, which approved that it, though the final decision would be made at the annual general meeting slated for next Wednesday. Mr Ndugai noted that the business will favour them with the fifth phase government’s decision also to officially relocate the country’s headquarters to Dodoma, which means that there are likely to be high demand for visitors’ hotel rooms visiting in the city. “It has come at an opportune time for the Commonwealth Investment Company Limited- CPA Africa region. As you know the country and government headquarters has moved to Dodoma, there is a big number of guests and the demand (for Hotel facilities), is very high. There is a genuine need for hotel investments, and we need serious investments in big hotels,” said the chairman. Mr Ndugai further said: “The study was conducted by investment experts and it was recommended that we should invest in a Five Star tourist hotel.” Equally, he added that the idea should receive the blessing of member countries before it could be implemented. The hotel will be the property of CPA Africa region and will be built on a plot that the Dodoma City authority had allocated for the continental parliamentary association, which has 28 members. Mr Ndugai said that this year’s conference has witnessed a record attendance. “It is a record attendance, and it demonstrates their love for Zanzibar. Many speakers, Deputy Speakers and other dignitaries from many parts of Africa are coming for this conference, and this massive turn-out has surpassed our expectations,” noted Mr Ndugai. Members making various committees including CWP Steering committee, Regional Representatives, Programme Planning and Finance, Constitutional Amendments Ad-hoc Sub Committees, also met yesterday at different times, while the executive committee’s meeting is scheduled for today. However, the official opening of the annual convention will take place tomorrow, and will be graced by Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohammed Shein. Themed ‘E-Parliament: Seamless Platform for Facilitating Democracy’, the meeting is set to assess the impact of ICT on political representation by fostering relationships between legislatures and the citizens. By leveraging on the exponential growth of ICTs, the African parliamentarians see e-parliament as new emerging platform for increasing and strengthening deliberative and interactive dialogue between citizens and their representatives. Scholars of political representation believe that with e-parliament, citizens-representatives estrangement would be reduced and new forms of engagement and collaboration will be created, thus making democratic processes more inclusive and transparent.