THE Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF) has so far released £2O million (over 50bn/-) funding towards undertaking 43 innovation projects in Tanzania. HDIF Country Director Joseph Manirakiza said here that his organization was satisfied with the way several institutions were implementing innovation projects that had so far helped the country in its quest to attain middle income economy status through industrialisation. He was speaking at an innovation workshop held in the country’s capital themed ‘Enhancing Sustainable Industrial Development Through Innovation’. In supporting the government’s mission to harness innovation to achieve the industrialisation agenda, HDIF, in partnership with the Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) and the National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC), organised a one-day high level workshop on innovation. “This workshop intends to bring together key senior technical professionals from within selected ministries and government agencies to brainstorm and explore ways of harnessing the advancements in technology and innovation to improve effectiveness and efficiency of basic service delivery and enhance sustainable industrial development,’’ said COSTECH Director General Dr Amos Nungu. For the past five years since it started its operations, HDIF has been funding various innovation projects countrywide, and according to the organisation’s country director, many of the projects had yielded positive results, placing Tanzania in a better position on the Global Innovation Index. “In 2014, Tanzania was at position 123 out of 129 countries that were surveyed in the Global Innovation Index, but in 2019 it went to two digits ranking at position 97. This was because of growth in innovation hubs in the country, the government agenda on innovation, as well as improved business environment, among other factors,” said Mr Manirakiza. According to Mr Manirakiza, HDIF seeks to identify and support innovations that have the potential to create social impact in education and health, as well as water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) across Tanzania. With a focus on market driven solutions, HDIF catalyses the development, testing and scaling of innovative models of service delivery, information and communication technologies for development (ICT4D), and product solutions in health, education and WASH. Among the successful projects, according to him, include a threeyear Early Childhood Development (ECD) project which is under HDIF and funded by UKAID, currently being implemented by HakiElimu, focused on ensuring that young Tanzanians are enrolled in higher quality and safe pre-primary schools. The £669,410 project dubbed ‘Mwanzo Mzuri’ expects that by April 2021 when it comes to an end, it will help improve school readiness and support young students in preprimary schools to reach their full potential, according to Haki Elimu Executive Director, John Kalaghe. Another successful project under HDIF is the Inclusive Education Project which is implemented by Sense International East Africa, which aims at ensuring that disabled children are not stigmatized in schools. According to the Sense International Project Officer, Mr Benjamin Kihwele, the project is implemented in Dar es Salaam Region and Kilimanjaro in Rombo, Same and Mwanga districts.