KASULU District traders in Kigoma Region have appealed to NMB bank’s management headquarter in Dar es Salaam and Zonal Offices to allow regional and district branches to offer them big loans instead of first seeking their approval. The traders made the appeal yesterday in Kisulu District, Kigoma Region in a public gathering organized by NMB, adding that they also want several branches opened in their midst in villages, where they do business. The traders said that in many cases, they have been victims of thieves waylaying and robbing them money after ‘business sales’ and hence asked for the bank’s intervention. The traders and others residents said that they have many flourishing businesses and make money, but realize the challenge of where to bank and transact other financial matters because bank services are not there. They said that at the local levels, the traders who want big loans despite their capability to pay back face challenges of being told to wait for clearance from the headquarters and zones, which take too long. In response, NBM bank Western Zone Manager Sospeter Magesse said that his institution will work on that basing on their focus that all parts of the country is reached for the citizens’ money to be safely banked. He said that the bank has startled a process of authorizing branches to give out loans to traders up to 1bn/- after earlier receiving the same concern. “We are trying to reorganize in law and regulations for a client as conditions to get a loan, and for instance on stages of loans, if you want 60m/-to start a factory, processes must be followed down-up the hierarchy to our Board of Directors, who have the final say,” he added. On behalf of the traders and other reside, Ms Emmakulatha Mazina said that with the bank opening a branch there, there would be increase of also safe money circulation and growth of other businesses some people fear to open because they have nowhere to bank and save money. She also appealed to the government and other stakeholders to educate the residents on the importance of money banking to limit cash money being in their hands, which in a way encourage thieves to persist. “Traders walking with cash money is now a risky business especially in our villages, where you find a trader going to buy maize or cassava and other crops and just with a tip to thives, his money and wares are in danger,” pointed out Ms Mazina. However, the traders lauded NMB for opening more branches in the region, where they rely on for bank services, despite being far apart. They also asked the bank to lower interest rates to friendly levels it charges on loans it offers them. Presenting a concern, a trader from True Maisha Training Company, Erick Chrispin, who is also its director, thanked the traders and residents for demanding that a bank be introduced in the area. He said that Kasulu District is growing businesswise and the number of big traders is increasing, which means that money circulation is also enlarging and requires the service of a bank.