ENERGY Minister Dr Medard Kalemani says the production and supply of electricity in the country has reached 1600megawatts (MW) while consumption now stands at 1100MW. He attributes generation of the surplus of 500MW to the efforts made by the Fifth phase government led by President John Magufuli. According to Mr Kalemani, the power project under implementation, including Stiegler’s Gorge, would help to increase power supply towards achieving the national development plan (2015-2020). The plant will have an installed capacity of at least 2100 MW. He said Tanzania was intending to generate at least 5, 000MW of electricity by 2020 to facilitate the government’s industrialization agenda. The minister was speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday when officially opening the 50th anniversary, annual meeting and workshop of Tanzania Geological Society (TGS), which is attended by over 400 geoscience professional members and other stakeholders countrywide. The events running under the theme ‘50 years anniversary, power of the past, force of the future’ aimed at discussing various geological issues to improve the sector and achieve sustainable development. “We have improved; our production and distribution of electricity has continued to improve. The move helps to reduce the use of generators in Dar es Salaam and other parts of the country. This is due to the efforts made by President Magufuli to achieve the industrialization agenda,” he stated. Dr Kalemani called on geoscientists in Tanzania to perform their duties efficiently to achieve their goals and those of the nation at large. “ We want you to work hard and implement what you want to achieve in order to benefit our people and to facilitate national development,” he added. The President of TGS, Prof Abdulkarim Mruma, said that the TGS was an organization of geoscientists in Tanzania, including geoscientists in the industry, academia, government institutions and all persons interested in geoscience. “We are asking the ministry responsible to establish a geoscience registration board to increase accountability and efficiency of the profession. We want to improve, promote and support our government in achieving the industrial status agenda,” Prof Mruma added.