PRESIDENT John Magufuli and his Ugandan counterpart, Yoweri Museveni, poured praises on Mwalimu Julius Nyerere (pictured), touting him as the greatest leader to ever exist in Africa. Speaking during the inauguration of the Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation square building in Dar es Salaam yesterday, they said Nyerere was unique in fighting and promoting African unity. “We all recognise and appreciate Mwalimu’s steadfast love for the people of Tanzania and Africa, his commitment to equity, justice and freedom. It is my desire for all of us to carry on with his struggle for an equitable, just and transformed world,” said Dr Magufuli He further added that as the country commemorates 20 years since his death, it was crucial for people to remember and imitate what he stood for, including total liberation of people from colonialism and promoted peace and unity. Dr Magufuli said it was obvious that no one can list down all the good things that Mwalimu Nyerere did for the nation and Africa in general, because he did his best and his good job is recognised beyond African borders. The MNF was established in 1996 by Mwalimu Nyerere to promote his legacy of peace, unity and people-centred development. The foundation seeks to monitor public and private institutions and seek strategies to uphold his ideals of integrity, equality and the rule of law in East Africa and beyond. Upon opening the Foundation, with typical humility, Mwalimu Nyerere expressed his desire that his ideas be a source of inspiration for the future, but that his legacy should be considered critically in order to best understand the way forward. The building includes a five star hotel, office tower and shopping mall being developed by CRJE and co-financed by the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank. On his part, President Museveni said he has been a follower of Nyerere since 1963 on account of his support for the struggle for East African, his support for anticolonial struggle and promotion of the use of Kiswahili in Tanzania. Museveni said Mwalimu was not only courageous, but was also skilful and decisive. “These qualities eventually contributed to all the victories African freedom fighters achieved in South Africa, Uganda, Rwanda, South Sudan, Angola, Mozambique, Namibia, Congo DRC and Guinea. If you carry out research properly, you will realize that Mwalimu was behind all this,” said the Ugandan leader.