NGORONGORO Heroes today wind up their 2019 CECAFA U-20 Challenge Cup group stage campaign by facing Zanzibar at the FUFA Technical Centre in Jinja Uganda. Heroes, who were held to a 2-2 draw with Kenya on Tuesday, have already qualified for the quarters with four points. The youthful Heroes started their campaign with hefty 4-0 win over Ethiopia in their group B’s opening match. They are playing third-placed Zanzibar with three points reaped from their 2-1 victory over Ethiopia at the same venue. The chance for Ethiopia to qualify is very slim as they have to beat Kenya by a big margin and pray Zanzibar lose to Ngorongoro Heroes today. Kenya, who are top-placed have also qualified even if they lose to Ethiopia today. Kenya have pocketed four points and seven goals from 5-0 win over Ethiopia and 2-2 draw with Heroes who are second with four points, six goals. Zanzibar are positioned third, have earned three points, scored two goals and conceded six goals. The Isles brothers must watch Andrew Simchimba who is the leading scorer with four goals from the two games. Hosts Uganda and Sudan are among the five teams that have qualified for the quarter finals at the on-going Cecafa U-20 Challenge Cup so far. Sudan kick started the tournament with a 4-0 win over Djibouti before drawing 3-3 with Eritrea on Monday. Uganda Hippos also started with a 1-1 draw with Eritrea in the opener before humbling Djibouti 5-1. Morley Byekwaso, Uganda Hippos coach said he is happy that his players are expressing themselves well and scoring goals. “Our target is to win this trophy on home ground,” added Byekwaso. On Monday, Burundi also qualified for the knock out stage after stopping Somalia 2-1 in a Group C encounter. Burundi are the first team from Group C to make it to the quarter finals at the on-going regional Cecafa U-20 Challenge Cup in Uganda. Coach Gustave Niyonkuru’s team scored through Skipper Hamimu Hakizimana and Loius Romeo Ndunimana, while Ahmed Abdul Abdi scored Somalia’s consolation goal at the Fufa Technical centre in Njeru. “ This is a big achievement,” added the coach whose team drew 3-3 with South Sudan in the opening match. Zanzibar could also have a chance to qualify from Group B after they picked their first win against Ethiopia on Tuesday. Zanzibar needed a late Khalid Shaban Mbarouk goal to defeat Ethiopia 2-1. Saadam Makame Mohamad gave Zanzibar a 1-0 lead at half time before Abebayehu Hajiso leveled for Ethiopia five minutes into the second half. But Khalid Shaban Mbarouk made the difference with the winning goal.