TWENTY seven-year old Anita Ivan is in bed since her birth, suffering from cerebral palsy-related problems, in her Ntobeye village home in Kagera region’s Ngara District. Her father Ivan Elisha, in his late sixties, is taking care of the ailing daughter but he remains desperate and helpless due to the fact that he is economically poor and unable to foot her medical bills. Anita’s parents started to guess something wrong with their daughter after she turned six months old with no ability to sit down on her own. They took her to Murgwanza District hospital where the service providers said there was nothing they could do with her problem. The parents remained puzzled because Murgwanza medics didn’t tell them exactly the kind of disability that their daughter had, said the father. The parents became curious to take Anita to advanced hospitals as they were advised at the district hospital but they could hardly manage due to financial constraints. “We are poor as you can see the way we live. My poverty worsened especially after my wife died in 1998. I find it difficult to engage in any production activity because there is nobody else to take care of Anita,” he narrated, adding: “It is normal thing for me and my daughter to stay for a couple of days without food. Some of our neighbours are now tired of serving us food because they have been giving for long time. We are all weak due to starvation but I feel much bad when Anita gives sign to demand something to eat and yet I have nothing to offer.” Mr Elisha pleads with the government and society in general to help in taking his daughter to hospital, saying he still has hopes that Anita can get back to normal if she gets the appropriate medical care. She is also in need of wheel chair to facilitate her movements. The family is also in need of electricity because the father does regularly wake up during night to help the daughter who cannot speak but uses body language that the father can hardly note in darkness. He proved to be unable even to buy fuel to keep the lamp burning the whole night, asking for support. Given the fact that Anita stays in bed almost full time, some of her body organs, including the right leg and arm have started bending. When somebody tries to strength them, Anita shouts loudly, signifying serious pains.