ALMOST everywhere you go within the city of Dar, you’ll wake up to charming calls of birds, singing in praises of the dawn of a new day. Dar es Salaam may seem an unlikely place to need a bird-watching programme; in fact, many people think that the only birds in the city are crows and sparrows. Yet this is where you find some 407 species out of a total of 1, 097 birds endemic across Tanzania. Keen bird watchers rank Dar as one of the best cities in the world to watch thousands of migrant waders alongside its unspoiled Coastline from September to April. The city has also been blessed with a lot of gardens, shrubs and coastline Forest Reserves such as the Pugu Hills and Kazimzumbwi and within them, we’ve just about everyone among the air-borne animal kingdom, among them: fruit eaters, insect catchers, seed eaters as well as carnivorous species. Globally, Dar es Salaam is recognized by Birdlife International, a world-class NGO, among places they have classified as Important Bird Areas or IBAs, marking out the city as an essential bird paradise or habitat. Birds are unique living beings with ability to fly. Though we live with, or near, many types of birds, we see only a few of them around the place of human residence. Given our love affair with technological advancement and current lifestyle, the importance of birds seems minimal. Indeed, many of us do not get time even to see them on a daily basis or at least once in a week; some of the birds we rear at home for human use, while others are indirectly helpful to humans. They form a part of the food chain in the ecosystem and are a part of nature. We’ve since classified some of the useful ways birds serve human among the following: Food: Birds are the prime source of food for humans. They produce eggs and also meat. There are many types of birds used for meat purposes like turkey, hen, ducks, geese, quails and many others. Further, the eggs are part of daily meals, cakes, ice creams even among vegetarian countries. Unlike vegetarians, some vegetarians refrain from eating meat but eat eggs – which are rich in protein and hence advised for consumption by patients suffering from debilitating diseases. Economy: We rear birds to make money, most by men for business. The meat and eggs from birds are called poultry. These birds are reared in large numbers because they are economically very viable for poultry farmers. Agriculture: Birds are not directly employed by man in agriculture. But they naturally serve some benefits, among them: .Pollination: Birds help in cross-pollination when they carry male gametes of one plant and drop them on to female gametes of another plant. Besides birds, insects and wind serve the same purpose. Fertility: Bird excreta is rich in uric acid which can readily convert to ammonia and acts as fertile manure to plants. .Pest control: Birds rely on insects and their larva to feed themselves and their babies. So during crop season, there is the wide growth of insect population due to favourable conditions. Birds keep the growth under control and help the crop from pest attack. .Rodent control: Unlike insects, rodents are a big problem to crops; they eat away the yield of the crop. But birds like eagles keep an eye on these rodents and carry away for consumption. .Communication: We may not rely on birds in our news outlets now, as did the people who founded the world’s first news networks, such as Reuters. But without technologies like mobiles and emails, pioneers once used birds as means of communication, during which mainly pet birds like pigeons and parrots were used to deliver small letters tied around their neck to nearby villages and towns. At the time, this was a swift, reliable and inexpensive method. Since the family had some birds, they could communicate with their relatives by use of birds. Birds are part of the living environment, or nature. To start with, birds are part of the human food chain; the carnivorous among them keep a check on the populations of rodents, insects and even snakes. We also have the scavengers that eat corpses left out by either lions or tigers within our neighbourhoods. That way, they help keep the nature clean of dead and decay matter. Birds are also key to seed propagation. When we see plants growing spontaneously at locations, they’ll have been brought there by the birds that ate the fruit or seeds of those plants. When it comes to sheer beauty in nature, few creatures can beat birds… because they are the some of the creatures that add real charm to the environment, which may partly explain why we see lots of painting with birds and even photographs of birds to reflect beauty. We need to protect them and minimize the hazards of technology on them.. Cell: 0712122128 Email: shanimpinga@gmail.com