AS Tanzania is keen to fur- ther strengthen tourism in the communication sector, fellow member states in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) have been invited to make use of the platform in reaping similar benefits. The Chairman of the or- ganizing committee of the SADC Ministerial Meeting on ICT, Information, Transport and Meteorology, Dr Jim Yonazi disclosed that the country hosts vast opportunities for tourism in the communication sector which can bring about major revolution among other sectors in the region. Dr Yonazi who also holds the position of the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication (Communication) made the revelation in Dar es Salaam yesterday on the sidelines of the cluster meeting of senior officials in the sectors. He identified the areas to which Tanzania has made major  advancement in the sector including investment on 4G network infrastructures, the National ICT Broadband Backbone (NICTBB) and other diverse electronic systems. Such advancement in the communication sector has reaped huge benefits like connecting a big number of people across the country and easing the ways  on which people could interact. “We welcome our fellow counterparts from SADC to come and learn on the various aspects achieved by the country. “However, we will be more than willing to advance the knowledge by reaching out to them in their 
respec- tive countries to enable them adapt into their own plans in reaping similar benefits,” said Dr Yonazi. The PS pointed out that infrastructure is  crucial component for the region to attain its full development, a factor that has placed it to be the second key priority in the SADC Strategic Plan. Based on the magnitude of the issue that is why the particular sectorial meeting is being held as the first among lined up meetings relating to other sectors expected to be convened within the country this year. “Today, we are going to wrap up the cluster meeting of senior officials and  Perma- nent Secretaries which began on Monday, whereas the actual ministerial meeting is an-ticipated to kick off tomorrow (today),'' he noted. Dr Yonazi noted that the meeting for ministers is expected to host Ministers from all the 16 member states in sectors including ICT, Information,Transport and Meteorology. With regard to that Tanzania is anticipated to be presented by the Minister of Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Isack Kamwelwe and Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports. “As from Monday when the meeting started everything has been going smoothly, the preparation and arrangement proceeded as planned,” expressed the PS.