LAKE Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC), has officially launched a song that calls for collective actions in protecting and conserving Mara River. “Let us have this song sung in radios, television stations, in our shops, in the rivers when our mothers are going to fetch water and even by livestock keepers when they are grazing their livestock and be sung by school children,” LVBC Executive Director Dr Ali- Saidi Matano said, when he was launching the song shortly after the climax of the 8th Mara Day celebration in Mugumu last Sunday. Dr Matano said the song has been composed at a time when the river which is shared by Tanzania and Kenya is facing serious threats mostly related to human activities. Mr William Ojwang from World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Kenya said the song portrays a distressed mother seeking help. “We decided to come up with something that can provide emotional connection between us and the Mara River. We can all sing and say that our mother is crying, and figure out what we can do “, Mr Ojwang said. He said LVBC, as a regional entity, will use the song to sustain the campaign, calling for collective actions for the trans-boundary river which supports over 1.1 million of Tanzanians and Kenyans. “We want to sustain the campaign going forward so that we listen to the music and keep reminding ourselves that our mother is calling for help, “ Mr Ojwang said. Dr Matano thanked WWF for composition of the song possible. “Mara River faces the worst crisis as we talk today and it is on the basis of this that I take this opportunity to more sincerely thank WWF for composing the song about Mara. This Mara articulates the challenges that the Mara is facing today and it also articulates the significance of this great ecosystem”, Dr Matano said. He called on media houses in both Tanzania and Kenya to assist in disseminating the song. By so doing, he said, the song will help to change the mindset of the people about the importance of conserving Mara River. He said launching of the song was one of the great activities held during the 8th Mara Day celebrations which also ended with 10 resolutions formulated during a high profile workshop that brought together stakeholders from Tanzania and Kenya. “The workshop came out with 10 resolutions and I am very glad that they were actually adopted by ministers from Kenya and Tanzania who were present ,” he said. The resolutions, Dr Matano said, would be forwarded to the council of ministers for further steps. Held on September 15th each year, Mara Day incorporates a different theme to campaign for sustainable conservation of the Mara River Basin. “I, Mara River-stand with me” was the theme of 2019 Mara Day celebration. The 10th Sectoral Council of Ministers for Lake Victoria Basin held in the Rwandan capital Kigali in May 2012 declared every September 15 “Mara Day.