As per Ministry of Agriculture Report published in July 2019, the country managed to produce a surplus of 2.6 million tonnes of food crops. For a country whose ambition is to commercialize agriculture—an attempt that gears at putting a dent to “hand-to-mouth’’ farming, that amount is but a peanut. We can never trade with global communities whose single company can consume to the tune of 2 million tons per turn. In June this year, Tanzania got a deal to supply maize to Zimbabwe, to the tune of 700,000 metric tonnes. According to Bloomberg, September, 19, 2019, Tanzania has already shipped the first batch of an order amounting to 1,200 tonnes by rail. Don’t forget that recently, Kenya has expressed its annual demand of 1 million tons of maize. This is not to mention of the some other demands from South Sudan and the like. So the so called ‘surplus’ is nothing more than a miniscule. It is evident that certain kind of “Green Revolution” is inevitable. But one of the areas with a potential of speeding up the Green Revolution rate is technology. It is one of the initiatives that successfully revolutionized agricultural sector in Asia. No wonder Thailand is exporting more than us. According to the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) Africa Progress Report 2014, Thailand with a population of about 70 million people exports more food grains to the world than the whole of Sub Saharan Africa. In Tanzanian context, there is regressive trend of agricultural growth despite rigorous implementation of National Agricultural Input Voucher Scheme (NAIVS). The system began working in the 2008/09 season up to 2014/15. It was orchestrated to provide 50 per cent subsidy to a smallholder farmer input subsidies of improved seeds and inorganic fertilizer, of which a farmer was anticipated to “graduate” after 3 years and be able to purchase the inputs latter on his own before being transferred to the other one. But, according to research done by Matthew Knowles of Colgate University, many farmers left the scheme after first and second year of programme—a time which has been having a highest level of Technical Inefficiency of around 34 per cent and 10 per cent respectively. Some of the reasons for this malaise are the lost interest and poor management of the programme. But this didn’t mention a millions of farmers left out of the process because of corruption done by government’s bureaucrats. Time has come now for Tanzanian government to leave this job of procuring and selling the inputs to private agro-dealers and concentrate on promoting, regulating and integrating mobile technology into the input subsidy system. This, not only will wipe out corruption and fasten the process, it will indeed streamline provision of additional services like farming tips, market prices and weather information. By 2017, a total number of Tanzanians subscribed to various cellular networks was approximately 70 per cent, so that means communication technology has the ability of democratizing the information by giving room for government to exchange their concerns with the beneficiaries. For government to give private sector more room to operate in the agricultural sector will in no way be equaled to abdicating her responsibilities, but instead this will propel her efforts geared at turning agriculture into a profit making venture. Let’s take a leaf from Nigeria. For four decades, Nigeria has been using the similar ‘analogue’ system to our NAIVS. In more or less similar results to ours, only 11 per cent of fertilizer procured by the government reached the farmers, an experience that Dr. Akinumwi Adesina the former Nigerian Minister for Agriculture and the current Africa Development Bank (AfDB), saw it to be shambolic as the practice only favoured the ‘top dogs’,”… in fact, the system existed to serve the rent seekers attached to it, not the smallholders,” he recalled. Retrospectively, Nigerian policy makers saw an obstacle and decided to sit down and craft a more perfect way of revitalizing the sector. An outcome was ‘e-Wallet’. A digital system that cleared a lot of demons stated above. The e-Wallet technology has now subscribed 15 million Nigerians mostly women, thanks to the increasing number of cell phone companies covering more than 80 per cent of Nigerian populace. Today a Nigerian farmer doesn’t need one to seek for a ‘godfather’ in the government to get extra subsidies; his cell phone can do. Through it he can get his electronic vouchers for inputs directly and then the same voucher will be used in place of cash to get seeds and inorganic fertilizer from a nearby mom-and-pop shop and proceed with other activities. To develop you need to be inspired, to be inspired you need to learn from those ahead of you, on this, e-Wallet can teach us something.