ZANZIBAR President, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, will tomorrow grace the 50th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA), Africa Regional Conference, which takes place in Zanzibar until September 5, 2019. CPA is an organisation that works to support good governance, democracy and human rights among members–that is national and sub-national parliaments. Participants will have time to share experience and views on good governance, democracy and human rights and how to realise them. CPA has 180 branches divided into nine regions–Africa, Asia, Australia, British Islands and Mediterranean, Canada, Caribbean, Americas and Atlantic, India, Pacific and South-East Asia. We, in Tanzania, are blessed to have this Africa region event and are sure that members’ deliberations and what they will agree upon will be implemented by participating members. Working together as CPA members is something that we should cherish and maintain. We are hopeful that each participating member will commit to implementing all that will be agreed upon for the betterment of the African continent, which although has been lagging behind in many areas, social change has started gathering momentum. CPA started as the Empire Parliamentary Association in 1911, with its first branches being Australia, Canada, Newfoundland, New Zealand, South Africa and the United Kingdom. In 1948, it changed its name to the current CPA and invited all branches to participate in the organisation’s administration. The Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibar House of Representatives are members to CPA. CPA committee sessions started in Zanzibar on Saturday. This is among the recent big events that have taken place in the United Republic of Tanzania after the recent 39th Ordinary SADC Summit of Heads of State and Government and the sixth African Leadership Forum (ALF), which was concluded on Friday. The latter was organised to discuss the future of African countries with new ideas and an action plan to go forward. All these events have been valuable to Tanzania in terms of marketing and boosting the country’s goods and services and contributing to the national economy. By Thursday, dignitaries from 18 countries had confirmed to participate in the CPA conference, whose attendance is estimated to be over 400 delegates, according to Zanzibar House of Representatives Speaker Zubeir Ali Maulid. As a nation we feel proud of hosting these high profile events for they have a positive impact on the country. There are many things we learn from them such as sharing of experience and new ideas on how to make parliaments more efficient and effective in their legislative role in the Africa region. So, let this conference bring fresh impetus to CPA participating members.