INDIA will continue to work with Tanzania to strengthen longstanding relations between them especially this time when the latter is gearing to become a middle-income and industrialized by 2025. That was said in Dar es Salaam recently by the country’s High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Sanjiv Kohli, adding that two nations have experiences, knowledge and skills to share for the benefit of different sectors in them. He said that there are several opportunities Tanzanians would exploit especially in the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) since its inception. His list included international training programme on leadership development and human capabilities and manpower research. Attending, the Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako thanked the government of India for considering the areas, citing them as key in large and small-scale industrialization the country envisions to have. “We are grateful that the government of India has remained a steadfast friend and supported Tanzania in various sectors… through grants, lines of credit and concessional loans. We promise to continue working with the government of India in these various areas to achieve our industrialization dream of 2025,” she said. Expounding, Prof Ndalichako said that for quite some time Tanzania has been a major beneficiary of India’s training opportunities available in their ITEC and Special Commonwealth Assistance for Africa (SCAAP) programmes. According to the minister, the schemes began with 24 trainees in 1972 and have gradually increased to 365 by last year, where the major beneficiaries have been civilians, defence and security officers. “In addition, more than 30 scholarships were offered in 2017/2018 academic year by the Indian Council for Agricultural Relations (ICCR), and apart from that, about 3, 000 Tanzanian self-sponsored students are estimated to be studying in India,” said Prof Ndalichako. However, the minister called upon Tanzanians to use the opportunities to increase their skills and knowledge in their activities. Commenting, Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) Principle Prof Prekisedis Ndomba said that the good cooperation midwifed and has since supported the establishment of the India-Tanzania Centre of Excellent in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) at their institution in Dar es Salaam, adding the Nelson Mandela Africa Institute of Science and Technology in Arusha and Vocational Training Centre (VTC) in Zanzibar in the list. “We are the ones who have been implementing the programme that would help to improve and promote ICT in our midst and rest assured that it would benefit many Tanzanian for our national development,” Prof Ndomba said.