WITH the changes that occur in the aspect of technology and moral issues, the government, among other things, has brought a bill to amend the National Examination Council of Tanzania Act. Tabling the proposed amendment in Parliament on Friday, Attorney General, Prof Adelardus Kilangi said the purpose is to give meaning to some terms and terminologies which have been used in the Act. He said the objective of the amendment is to cure ambiguities of the terms and terminologies that may arise by setting a clear demarcation between provisions governing establishment, objective, functions, powers and duties of the Council. Moreover, he said the intention was to widen the scope of function of the Council on issue or matters related to training examination and assessment. The amendment also seeks to reduce the number of members of the Executive Committee for effective and efficient conduct of responsibility of the committee, with the aim of empowering the Examination Committee to investigate on examination malpractices. The amendments incorporate offences associated with technological advancements within the society. He said they further intend to widen the categories of offences related to examinations and to enhance the penalties provided therein. The amendments further propose for the introduction of a new section for the purpose of recognizing in the law the establishment of Regional and Local Government Authorities Education Committees, which shall be the responsible organ for overseeing the conduct of examinations at their respective regional or local government authorities. It also proposes addition of a new section which is intended to introduce a requirement for an officer dealing with moderation of examination to take an oath of secrecy in their respective area of jurisdiction. The amendments also propose the schedule with the aim of widening scope of knowledge and experience on education related matters for Council members. This amendment intends to have a fair representation among groups, it further intends to enhance code of ethics and conduct to members. It is proposed to categorize blocks into three groups, Category I (high quality), Category II (optimal), and Category III (degraded) with the tenure of ten years for category I and II and fifteen years for category III. It further amends with a view of empowering the Minister to make assessment of the performance of hunting companies allocated hunting blocks to ensure that hunting blocks are not degraded and the companies undertake their obligations.