AS the nation is all geared up to local government elections this year, the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) warned yesterday against corrupt practices and listed some issues, which might subject some people to corruption charges. Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, PCCB Acting Director-General Bri-Gen, John Mbungo mentioned a voter's failure to register in the voter register after being bribed and a candidate disqualifying himself or herself from vying for an elective post after receiving a bribe. The polling-day is scheduled for November 24. He mentioned other issues as organising people to cause chaos during campaigns to prevent other candidates from getting a chance to sell their political agenda and being guided to vote for a particular leader contrary to law. He said there were other people, who were bribed for not turning up on the pollingday. "All these actions are being counted as criminal offences during elections and once a person is caught doing any of these will be subjected to prosecution," noted BriGen Mbungo. Besides the above offences he also pointed out that giving or receiving T-shirts, caps, khanga or foodstuffs, among other things, for the sake of persuading people to vote for a candidate was also a form of corruption and punishable by law. To ensure members of the public are aware of such offences so that they do not end up facing problems, PCCB is collaborating with various stakeholders, including the media, political parties, the National Electoral Commission (NEC), the President's Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), security organs, the office of the Attorney General, the judiciary, religious institutions and the private sector to ensure everything runs smoothly for the betterment of Tanzanians and the country. According to Bri-Gen Mbungo, PCCB continues providing civic education on the negative effects of corruption on society. PCCB urges religious leaders to enlighten their believers on corruption and ways of identifying corrupt practices and how to overcome them. He further noted that PCCB had continued encouraging stakeholders from district to regional levels to participate in the prevention and combating of corruption. "PCCB continues strengthening ways of investigation related to corruption offences in the upcoming elections, including finding out and receiving information from various sources and taking to court all those implicated in corrupt practices," he noted. He commended some media houses for airing programmes on corruption during elections and urged other media houses to do the same and reach out to as many people as possible across the country. The PCCB boss expressed their commitment to ensuring members of the public were knowledgeable about what they were supposed to do during campaigns and elections and enable them to make right decisions, when choosing leaders, who were going to further what had already been initiated by President John Magufuli’s administration. According to him, people ought to know what elections are, the objectives of holding elections, laws governing elections, the right to vote in a free and fair election and the importance of their votes. He mentioned also the importance of choosing capable leaders, revealing those involved in corrupt practices, the qualities of good leaders, what to be done and the importance of collaborating with PCCB in the prevention and combating of corruption during elections. "Properly planned elections are stepping stones on the path to development for any country. That is why Tanzania today is witnessing advancement in the implementation of development projects for the betterment of Tanzanians and the country," he said. Such great strides have been brought about by citizens’ keen interest in electing good leaders, who are catalysts for development. He praised President Magufuli for pioneering social change and the type of development witnessed today in the country especially his crackdown on corruption, which had transformed the way the country was perceived in and outside. “Reports published nationally and internationally measuring graft and good governance have indicated roaring progress in the fight against corruption as compared to previous years. He cited reports released recently, including those of Transparency International, MO Ibrahim, TWAWEZA and AfroBarometer. "It is PCCB’s aspiration to see to it that citizens’ keen interest in electing capable leaders who are ethical, patriotic and fight against corruption," he said.