SIMBA Head Coach Patrick Aussems has applauded the performance of his team in a 3-0 win away against Kagera Sugar in the Mainland Premier League match at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba on Thursday. Deadly striker Meddie Kagere scored twice and Assistant skipper Mohamed Hussein netted once in a match they should have won even with a bigger margin. However, Simba knocked off Kagera Sugar to reclaim the driver’s seat at the 20-team league with maximum nine points from three matches. Kagera Sugar with the same points drop to second on goal difference but they have played four matches. Prior to yesterday’s clash, Kagera Sugar collected nine points from their past three league matches against the Reds. Kagera Sugar beat Simba 1-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam at the close of 2017/2018 season. In the 2018/2019 season, Kagera Sugar chalked a 2-1 win over Simba in the first round encounter at the Kaitaba Stadium, before emerging with a 1-0 win at the National Stadium in the second round encounter. With this jinx to kill, Simba looked a more determined side to win the match from the early opening exchanges and in the end; they managed to earn a well-deserved victory. And, after the match, Aussems commended the superb display by his charges, saying it sends a clear warning to the next opponents. The Belgian tactician also said the victory highlighted that the squad has attained rhythm required to win the title for the third straight season. He was impressed by link-up play up front, where playmaker Ibrahim Ajib, Sharaf Shiboub, Deo Kanda and Meddie Kagere had shown their class. Aussems said that it was not an easy match and they had to play cautiously and control the tempo from the kickoff. “You know there were too much talking before the match and we decided to talk with our legs and brain on the pitch…I think the best team won today (Thursday),” he said, adding that players strictly followed the technical bench instructions. Regardless, he said they need to be more clinical in front of the goal, saying the Simba ought to have scored more goals in the match basing on the chances created. He added that their mission in Kagera has been accomplished and now they have turned their focus on the next game against Biashara United at the Karume Stadium in Musoma tomorrow. “After Kagera, we will see how our players make recovery from the game and put our plans on the coming game, which will be staged in a poor pitch and because we are aware of the situation, we will see how to tackle,” he said. He added that Simba is playing all their games to win and in the focus in every game is to try to play an attractive and offence game. On his part Kagera Sugar, Head Coach Mecky Maxime conceded the defeat and saluted his opponents for cultivating on their mistakes to win the match. “Surely the best team won today (Thursday)…we were second best in the most part of the game, although there were some good moments for us as well,” he said, adding that Simba had a good game, which proved they are among the best teams in the continent. Simba left Bukoba for Mwanza early yesterday and is expected to leave the rocky city today for Musoma town ahead of their tomorrow’s game against Biashara United, which is trained by former Simba defender Amri Said.