SIMBA SC goalkeepers, Aishi Manula and Benno Kakolanya are among the popular names missing in the Taifa Stars squad unveiled yesterday ahead of African Nations Championship (CHAN), match against Sudan next week. To replace them, Taifa Stars coach, Etienne Ndayiragije has called Kagera Sugar custodian Saidi Kipao who will be together with veteran goalie, Juma Kaseja from KMC and Metacha Mnata from Young Africans. Kaseja has become the number one goalkeeping choice after an impressive show against Kenya and Burundi in both matches Tanzania won via penalty shooting. His brilliance steered in the match against Burundi earned Tanzania a 3-0 win which consequently gave the home team a ticket to play in the group stages of the FIFA 2022 World Cup Qatar. Already, Taifa Stars keeper, Juma Kaseja insisted that Tanzania have what it takes to go past Sudan in the next stage of Chan qualifiers following his team’s impressive performance which led to the defeat of Kenya in the contest. Taifa Stars needed penalties to beat Kenya 4-1 after a 0-0 draw in the return leg at Kasarani Moi Stadium to seal a clash against Sudan in the final stage of qualifications. The win was also a sweet revenge for Tanzania over their East African rivals, who had beaten them 3-2 in the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. “We fought very hard to win this game and it was made possible due to the strong unity which we had on the pitch,” Kaseja said shortly after beating Kenya. “As we aim to go further in this competition, this type of unity should continue to the benefit of us and the entire country.” Kaseja was the star man for Tanzania during the penalty shootout and believes they can beat Sudan to reach the finals. “We have a date with Sudan, not a bad team and all we need to do is to prepare well. We also have a good squad which can win so we are ready for them.” However, from the 25-strong named squad, others who have been dropped include Ibrahim Ajib of Simba and his team mate John Bocco both reportedly nursing injuries. Still, the new squad has been bolstered by new faces that include Bakari Nondo from Coastal Union and striker Miraji Athumani from Simba. The latter scored a winning goal for Simba in their 2-1 win over Mtibwa Sugar in the Vodacom Premier League (VPL), tie held recently in the city. The full list of selected players has goalkeepers Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata (Young Africans) and Saidi Kipao (Kagera Sugar). Defenders are Haruna Shamte (Simba), Boniface Maganga (KMC), Gadiel Michael (Simba), Mohamed Hussein (Simba), Kelvin Yondani (Young Africans), Erasto Nyoni (Simba), Iddi Moby (Polisi Tanzania) and Bakari Nondo (Coastal Union. Midfielders are Jonas Mkude (Simba), Baraka Majogoro (KMC) Mohamed Issa (Young Africans) and Mudathir Yahya (Azam). Strikers are Iddi Suleiman (Azam), Salum Abubakar (Azam) Frank Domayo (Azam), Mzamiru Yassin (Simba), Shaaban Iddi (Azam), Ayub Lyanga (Coastal Union) Abdulaziz Makame (Young Africans ) Hassan Dilunga (Simba), Miraji Athumani (Simba) Feisal Salum (Young Africans).