ABOUT 165 Tanzanian villages will have sustainable water supply through improved solar pumping systems, thanks to the World Bank’s 4.5 million US dollar (over 10bn/-) new grant. The government and the Bretton Woods institution have just signed the deal of 10bn/- from the Global Partnership for Results-Based Approaches (GPRBA). The World Bank’s longterm engagement in the water sector will now include a large pilot on “Solar water pumping through innovative financing,” which will support Tanzania in moving from outdated and inefficient diesel- powered pumps to clean and climate-friendly solar pumping systems. The new systems will help to decarbonise off-grid water pumping in rural Tanzania and significantly reduce the cost of water extraction for at least 500,000 beneficiaries. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water Prof Kitila Mkumbo said the systems will reduce maintenance costs of the Community- Based Water Supply Organisations (CBWSOs). “The introduction of solar water pumping systems is expected to significantly reduce operation and maintenance costs for CBWSOs, providing them with financial resources to lower water prices to users and expand services to presently unserved communities,” said Prof Mkumbo. Acting Head, GPRBA, Zaruhi Tokhmakhian noted that the project was opening up new resources of available funding. “The project opens up new resources of available funding to help close the vast investment gap for rural water supply in Tanzania and shift the focus to mobilising the private sector financing consistent with the World Bank’s Maximising Finance for Development (MFD) approach,” she said. According to the World Bank, the project is the first attempt to leverage private sector financing in Tanzania’s rural water supply sector. “With this project, we are seeking to introduce new technologies at scale to better facilitate private sector financing and sustainable rural water supply. It is our hope that the combination of solar water pumps, pre-paid meters, chlorination, remote sensors and five-year service agreements will form the synergies, which will shape a new era for the sector,” said World Bank Country Director Bella Bird. To supplement GPRBA’s grant and diversify funding sources, the project uses a blended finance approach, combining debt finance and output-based subsidies. GPRBA funds will facilitate 60 per cent subsidy against loans for CBWSOs to replace their diesel generators with solar-powered pumping systems. “The debt finance will account for 40 per cent of the investment and the CBWSOs will repay the loan over a four-year period with additional money made available by eliminating the use of diesel fuel,” the bank said in the statement. Additionally, an innovative mobile-banking payment platform will be piloted to manage revenue collection from water sales and loan repayments by participating CBWSOs directly to the participating local banks. The funding also includes a technical support component for training CBWSOs to perform efficiently and encourage their practices of loan repayment to increase creditworthiness and ability to borrow in future.