PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday outlined measures that the government has taken to address long-standing setbacks to ease business transactions between Tanzania and Uganda, before urging business communities of the two countries to exploit opportunities. President Magufuli told the businesspeople that some of the measures were taken through joint efforts with his Ugandan counterpart, Yoweri Museveni. “We have addressed most of the challenges. Let Ugandan businesspeople come over to Tanzania to do business and Tanzanian traders go to Uganda in their huge numbers...We are already late, let’s start now,” President Magufuli said when addressing the business community from the two countries. The businesspeople are in the country for a two-day Tanzania- Uganda Business Forum being held in Dar es Salaam. This is the first joint forum meant to discuss trade and investment issues between the two countries and find solutions to nagging matters that were retarding growth of trade in the bordering countries. Dr Magufuli explained that his government has embarked on several initiatives that are expected to boost trade and investment. He said that after identifying challenges, the government started implementing projects to improve transport infrastructures, particularly railway transport. The President said the government is undertaking a project to improve the central railway line from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza after noticing that underperformance of the central corridor led Traders to buy cashews under new system to poor trade between the two countries. “When the railway from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza is complete, it will be a savior to traders,” President Magufuli assured. The improvement of railway services will go hand in hand with purchasing of more locomotives to haul transit cargo. Dr Magufuli further stated that expansion of the Dar es Salaam Port and controlling theft were part of the efforts to boost trade.” President Museveni and I have revived ferries between Mwanza and Port Bell and opened One Stop Border Post,” he said. Earlier, Dr Magufuli challenged participants not to dwell on setbacks in doing business between the countries, saying the trade volume between Uganda and Tanzania was very low. In 2018, the goods and services traded between the two countries stood at 388.5bn/-, an increase from 116.7bn/- the previous year. President Magufuli noted with concern that the number of Ugandan companies registered in Tanzania are only 22, while Kenyan companies are 504. “These are issues you Ugandan and Tanzanian businesspeople should ask yourselves during this meeting and come up with answers,” he challenged. Dr Magufuli, however, hinted that he was aware tariff and non tariff barriers were among the challenges.”This is why we have reduced the number of check points whereby now there are not more than three,” he said. Addressing the same gathering, President Museveni challenged the traders to think of big markets instead of continuing to confine themselves in small markets. He said that in order to increase agricultural production, Ugandan farmers have to shift from subsistence farming which is mainly for serving the stomach to commercial agriculture which serves the pocket. President Museveni hailed Dr Magufuli for implementing a project to improve the central railway line, citing cost relief when transporting containers by rail or water and road. The statistics show that to transport a container by road from Dar es Salaam to Port Bell in Kampala costs around USD 4,500 while the same container can cost only USD 1,600 when transported by rail or water. He went on to ask commercial banks operating in the two countries to lend money to traders with low interest rates, to enable them grow. Earlier, the Chairman of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Mr Salum Shamte, said there were many investment opportunities in the two countries. He was optimistic that trade between the two countries can double since investment climate has been improved and the businesspeople should form joint ventures. The two governments used yesterday’s forum to sign agreements meant to boost trade relations. The pacts were on cooperation on agriculture, immigration, correctional services and Joint Permanent Commission (JPC).