COCONUT demand is higher than its supply, Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Omari Mgumba said yesterday. Speaking in the National Assembly, Mr Mgumba said drinking of raw coconut water, consuming its meat and using coconut oil in cooking had driven the coconut market demand higher. He said coconut virgin oil sold up to 40,000/-per litre. He noted that products such as brooms, timber, ropes and furniture made from coconut trees and the ability of coconuts trees to conserve the environment had increased the value of the oil crop. The deputy minister was responding to Ms Zaynab Vulu (Special Seats-CCM), who in her question wanted to know when the government would look for the market of coconuts and promote coconut farming as it used to be in the past. He said in enhancing the market for coconuts in the country, 74 coconut growers in Lindi and Mtwara regions were taught how to extract coconut virgin oil in the 2018/19 fiscal year. “A group of 50 members of coconut growers in Bagamoyo, Coast Region, were given a virgin oil extracting plant with the capacity of producing 500 litres of virgin oil annually,” he said. Mr Mgumba said the government continued enhancing markets for all agricultural products by linking farmers and buyers through cooperative societies, crop markets, and small-scale industries for value addition. He explained that the government continued providing education to coconut growers to use high yield varieties, which were resistant to diseases. According to him, with average production of 530,000 tonnes per annum, Tanzania is leading in Africa and the 10th worldwide in coconut production. Coconut palm is an important perennial cash and subsistence oil crop along the coastal belt of Tanzania supporting the livelihoods of more than 300,000 rural households, with an average farm size of 0.5-1ha. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (2002), about 75 per cent of coconut farmers’ economy along the coastal belt comes from coconut production. About 95 per cent of coconut farmers in the country are small-scale producers, while only 5 per cent are large-scale farmers.