MORE than 200,000 children are expected to get Measles and Rubella vaccination in Kilimanjaro Region in the national campaign that starts on 26th -30th September, this year. Briefing members of the press on the exercise, the Kilimanjaro Region Measles and Rubella Vaccination 2019 Campaign Coordinator, Dr Peter Kihamia, who also focuses on preventing Polio, urged parents and the public to make sure that children aged between nine months to five years get the jab. “There are some people with ill perceptions that the said vaccination has side-effects to children in their future lives, and some have associated and termed it a family planning for children in their early stages, but all these are not true”, he pointed out. However, the Coordinator warned: “There are many side effects if a child would not be vaccinated, which also includes one’s death if one would be infected or affected by measles, rubella or polio, just in case you avoid taking a child for vaccination.” Equally, Dr Kihamia noted that once a child would not be vaccinated, risks of getting different types of sickness like heart problems would not be ruled out, adding that such a child may also get permanent paralysis, pneumonia, malnutrition and cerebral haemorrhage among others. He said that the campaign is for new born babies, and those aged five years and below and did not complete earlier vaccination regimen, something which could create a pathway to the outbreak of other contagious diseases. On his part, the Kilimanjaro Regional Health Officer Jonas Mcharo said that preparations are in advanced stage for the campaign to begin in the area. “A total of 312 fixed centres have been prepared for the exercise in the region, where according to our projections, we expect to vaccinate a total of 223,772 children in Kilimanjaro region. “What we urge you members of the press is to raise awareness through respective media outlets for the public, especially those who seem to be busy and save time to save their children from the future related diseases, which can be kept off now by this vaccination,” he said. Mr Mcharo further said that the five days campaign would be enough for health officials to handle the children, and urged parents not to politicise it. “Most of the people here in Kilimanjaro region are businesspersons, who seem to be busy with their business activities, something which could make them forget the vaccination campaign, but may I take this opportunity to urge you members of the press to keep on reminding them, because it will take only five days,” he said. The Officer, however, called upon religious and government leaders in all levels of administration in their respective areas to mobilise their people to send children to get the vaccination centres. Mr Mcharo equally reminded the public that the vaccination would be free of charge, adding that the government had taken costs’ responsibility in purchase, transport and distribution. “The current government’s policy of industrialisation needs healthy people both currently and in the future, and that’s why it has embarked on this National Measles and Rubella Vaccination Campaign with the intention of improving the general health and survival of children so as it grooms a nation with strong and healthy people,” he pointed out