TANZANIA Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) expects to raise its annual revenues by 8bn/-, thanks to installed four civilian radars, two of which President John Magufuli inaugurated yesterday. The president launched the surveillance radars at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), with two others at Mwanza and Songwe in Mbeya, pending. Dr Magufuli said TCAA will effective next year increase its revenues to 82bn/- from the current 71bn/-. The 67bn/- four radar installation projects will now enable the country to monitor its airspace by 100 per cent, unlike previously when the capacity was to cover only 25 per cent. The successful installation of the four radars negates a past fraudulent deal to purchase just one radar at 230bn/-, which National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai said compelled the parliament to intervene to rescue the public money. “I was among the five-member team that went to the UK to demand the money and today we are here speaking of four radars, which have been purchased through proper means…we should agree that things have changed under President Magufuli’s administration,’ Mr Ndugai said. He called on the members of the public to support President Magufuli, saying the radars are important for the country’s safety and security. “That amount of money was to buy only one radar…we were robbed and I wonder why implicated officials did not resign,” President Magufuli stated with concern. He explained that the radars will play a significant role in protecting the country’s airspace security and improve airline services. The development comes as the government continues with efforts to revive Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). “Our airline is doing well; this is why you see some people trying to pull us back,” he said, referring to a recent seizure and subsequent release of ATCL plane in South Africa over a court case. “These are like frog’s shouts that cannot deter an elephant from drinking water in a pond,” he recalled a Swahili saying. The president said after succeeding in the domestic market, with 75 per cent market share, the national flag carrier is focusing its efforts to international markets. TCAA Director General Hamza Johari said the authority used domestic revenues to implement the project, with the central government and TCAA contributing 35.1bn/- and 32.2bn/-, respectively. The French company, Thales Air System (TAS), was contracted to construct the project whose foundation stone President Magufuli laid in April last year. Mr Johari said 53 TCAA experts have been trained, as part of the contract with the French firm, to operate the radars. Construction of the radars will enable TCAA to control eight aircraft in the airspace at a time instead of only two using the existing outdated radar.