NMB bank will take some of their best loan returnees to China to familiarise with how the people spearhead in business and in turn be ambassadors on how to improve their local trade. That was said by NMB Senior Relationship Manager Business Banking, Wogofya Mfalamagoha while launching Simiyu Business Club here yesterday. He further said that traders who have been perfect in paying back loans on time, besides other factors, would be put in the criteria to select the people to travel to the country this year in its coming fair trade. Attending the meeting, small and medium entrepreneurs (SMEs) in the region hailed institution for inaugurating them NMB Business Club that has enabled them to grow in business and raise capital. The traders said that the club has also provided them with a new knowledge and system to tap more business opportunities technologically and improve their activities as earlier advocated for by the same bank. The SMEs who are also members of the club further said that the club has enabled them to acquire skills on how to grow in business and avoid unnecessary losses. The Simiyu Regional Business Club Chairperson, Christopher Muhama said that on behalf of other members they were thankful that the new knowledge and system has made them stabilise in business and change ‘culture’ which were making them meeting setbacks. He said that since the bank launched the club, it has educated them six times and rescued the ones who could not sustain in business and return loans they took from the financial institution(s). “We used to be enlightened on how to run business and type according to environment, time and good money expenditures, to raise capital and… this system has helped the traders to be able to return back loans to NMB and those unable to pay back reach amicable solutions instead of running away,” added Mr Muhama Another trader, Mshana Mwanareguma pointed out that being a member of the club, he managed to raise his business capital circulation from 500,000/- to 30m/- He said that through the system, NMB tipped them also with skills on how to do business which depend on time and apply the technology they acquired to grow.