NATIONAL golf team ace Victor Joseph, managed to improve his score during round three to stay among top ten on the leaderboard as the 2019 Uganda Open Amateur Golf Championship winds up today. The four-day 72 holes annual competition that started on Wednesday at the Lake Victoria Serena Golf Resort in Uganda, saw over 90 top amateurs around the global battling it out for the top honours. Golfers from hosts Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Sweden, South Africa, Ethiopia, USA and Pakistan are competing in this year’s event. Speaking to the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ from Uganda after third round yesterday, Joseph said that the competition is tough and very challenging. Joseph, who started his campaign with three over 75 gross in day one, carded 76 on Thursday before improving to 74 yesterday, to settle at 10th place after third round with aggregate nine over shots 225. “The course is very different to what I used to play, greens are very fast, surrounded with the lake Victoria water make course even tougher. But will continue to fight to end, as everything is possible,” said Joseph. Joseph from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) and a sole Tanzanian golfer at the competition faces mountain to climb, going into the final round today. He is 12 shots adrift the overnight leader Kenyan Samuel Njoroge, who charged at the two straight round to lead the board with aggregate three under 213. Njoroge started slowly after hitting 73 in the first round, but posted an impressive 72 and 68 in the second and third rounds for him to jump at the helm. He overtook his countrymate Simon Njogu, who shot an impressive three under par 69 in the first round but his 75 and 71 second and third rounds, saw him posting an aggregate score of one over 215, two shots adrift the leader. Donald Otole, also had a poor start that saw him carded 82 gross. However, he kept his nerves and improved in the second and third rounds, posting 68 and 66 and jumped third, with Kenyan Daniel Nduva had an aggregate score of 216 (75,70,71) to remain in the pole position. The event comes after last weekend’s Uganda ladies Open that Uganda’s Martha Babirye emerged the winner. Babirye took the trophy from Tanzania Neema Olomi, who won it last year during the event held at Entebbe Golf Club.