IT is quite difficult to know how many people know how to swim, but it is a fact that a considerable population, particularly children residing close to the sea/beaches, and fishers can swim with little skills on safety measures. A proverb in local language ‘Bahari haina hodari’ (literary translated as “there is no proficiency in the sea”) meaning that even if you can swim, sea remains a threat to anyone travelling, playing, or fishing in it. There is no official or known data about the number of people including children who die in the sea, but according to comments from people living close to the beaches, coast guards, police, fishers and frequent travellers, there have been frequent death reports in the sea. People die while crossing from one inhabited island to another to attend school, while fishing, diving/snorkelling, and travelling, while children swimming, and accidents. The deaths are linked to ignorance in detecting dangers, lack of safety equipment, ignoring to observe safety measures and lack of swimming and rescue skills. Mr Khamis Hafidh Ali- Secretary, fishers committee in Nungwi coastal village, Unguja north, says “Problems in the sea are almost common, but we do not have statistics. People disappear or drown while fishing. Tourists also drown while swimming.” “We need safety equipment, swimming and rescue skills. We need lifeguards and life jackets, and rescue boats for safety,” Mr Ali said. Thus, some local NGOs in collaboration with foreign counterparts are carrying out swimming classes to local people including children. The Panje Project in collaboration and support from the United Kingdom (UK) charity Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI), has been providing aquatic survival training to children in Nungwi since 2013. It is estimated that more than seven thousand children have been trained during the programme, which has also expanded to train adults particularly fishers who normally are engaged in rescue missions in case of accidents. Many children in Nungwi, Kendwa and Bwejuu coastal villages have benefited from the training, organized at least twice in a year, and the swimming training last three days for adults and 15 days for children. “We appreciate the support from ‘The Panje Project’ and RNLI for the swimming training, provision of swimming costumes, life jackets and local tutors trained locally,” said the fishers Secretary. Mr Ali Haji is one of the tutors. “We enjoy training children how to swim and rescue themselves in case of accidents in the sea. We train for 15 days consecutively, but it is unfortunate we have not been monitoring children who complete swimming,” Haji said. He said most people living close to the sea widely use locally made light boats to travel including pregnant mothers going for labour, children going to school and fishers, therefore swimming training remains important. The swimming tutors says learning how to swim is important because it helps one to get saved from drowning and rescue other villagers in difficulty in the water, “This happens frequently and people get injured or die.” Swimming teachers are male for male children and adults, while female tutors train the females. They teach how to float, swim, and rescue others using sticks, jerry can containers and floats, in shallow water and move slowly to the deep sea area. Many people find it a difficult programme, at the beginning, but slowly learn and enjoy as it is very important for everyone in Tanzania to learn swimming to be safe in the water while travelling or even when swimming for leisure. Mr Bakhtim Khamis Marshed, co-founder of the Panje Project, says the swimming education has been important because “We believe, in case of the any marine accident (God forbid), many people will manage to rescue them selves.” It is believed that many people died in big marine accidents in the country in 2011 and 2012 in Zanzibar, and similar accidents in Lake Victoria, because of inability to swim and rescue others. He said that travelling, fishing or just swimming in the sea is a risk because sometimes tides change swiftly throughout the day and over the course of the month, “so recognizing the true depth of the water at all times can be difficult, therefore accidents can easily occur.” Globally, it is estimated that the annual death toll due to drowning surpasses 350,000 people, and that due to culture and religious restrictions, few girls are allowed to learn basic swimming skills. In its 2014 global report on the issue, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that drowning causes 372,000 deaths each year. That is 42 people who die each hour from drowning, despite the widespread availability of prevention strategies. Other data suggests the drowning rate may be four or five times the WHO estimate, and that although drowning is a leading cause of death for people under the age of 25 in low- and middle-income countries, the problem has received little attention as a public health issue until recently. A number of other globally significant matters, including mass migration and climate change, are bringing to the forefront the significance of drowning in many regions around the world. Experts RNLI say that with increasing marine transportation and fishing, swimming programmes is good for children and ordinary people and that they are committed to continue supporting the programme in Zanzibar with plans to extend to other countries. The programme recruits kids between the ages of 7 and 14 from Quran schools (Madrassa), the primary and secondary schools in batches of 16 and 28. The children attend 2-hour training sessions each day for 15 days and about 70 per cent of the kids who come through the programme pass. Mr Marshed said during those 2 weeks, the kids learn a slew of survival skills besides swimming: properly checking for sharp rock or urchins in the water, saving others using a stick or rope, floating on their backs and rolling from their fronts to their backs. “They need this, as long as we’re living on an island like this one,” says Marshed adding that the programme is expanding to other coastal villages in Pemba Islands. A 12-year old Asha Mohamed from Madrassa in Bwejuu village says she is happy to learn swimming, “At the beginning I was scared, but now I can help to save lives. I thank RNLI and the Panje Project.” Experts from RNLI have coached Panje’s 12 swim instructors to teach including simple rescue techniques.