CUSTODIAN Juma Kaseja status as the country’s safest hands continued to work yesterday when his brilliance steered to Tanzania a 3-0 post match penalties win over die hards Burundi at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Kaseja saved the first penalty and forcing the Burundians to shoot two others off-target. Taifa Stars converted all three penalties through Erasto Nyoni, Himidi Mao and Gadiel Michael. The hard earned victory placed Taifa Stars in the group stage of the 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar and will be waiting to see other three opponents when the continental football governing body(CAF) unveils all 40 nations to be involved in the group stage assignment. It was one of the toughest games in the qualification phase which saw the match going into the extra time after the normal period with teams deadlocked 1-1 at a full packed venue. The match started on front pedal as each team wanted to get an early goal and thereafter settle but all that had to wait until in the 29th minute when Samatta utilised well infringement inside Burundi penalty box to put his side ahead. Taifa skipper Mbwana Samatta capitalised on Burundi’s defensive laxity to score an important goal. The well-taken corner kick which was tricky exposed Burundi defenders who in the end failed to clear what seemed to be an easy ball in their danger zone. The goal gave Stars momentum as they played with much confidence aiming to increase the lead but on several occasion, the defence of the visitors was up to the task. However, in the dying minutes of the first half, Abdulrazak Fiston equalised to enable his team come back into the contest and make the second half even harder. The second half began on the acceleration pedal with the visitors looking likely to cause an early damage, but Stars maintained their superb defence to deny conceding any more goal. As the match proceeded, it was the home team which made first substitution in the 61st minute when interim Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije sacrificed Hassan Dilunga for Farid Mussa. It was a tactical switch which helped a lot to pile pressure towards Burundi territory only that goals were hard to come by. Again, in the 70th minute, Mohammed Hussein was benched off for Gadiel Michael, the change that added new life to the hosts and gave them ample time of domination. The last squad adjustment on the day for Ndayiragije witnessed Aboubakar Salum paving way for Shaaban Chilunda who equally increased pressure towards the visitors segment but could not find the highly waited second goal. However, Kaseja was forced to do acrobatic save in the 89th minute to deny a long range shot which, if it was not his alertness in between the posts, Burundi could have netted the second goal. At the end of normal period of play, another 30 minutes were added on the clock to break the 1-1 balance which consequently saw no goals emerging hence penalties had to be played to separate the two sides. Taifa Stars skipper Samatta was substituted in the 105th minute of the clash after picking an injury and his place was taken by Himid Mao. Stars coolly converted all their three spot kicks while Burundi missed theirs.