THE Tanzania F ootball F ederation (TF F ), has refused to comment on reports that the former national team, Taifa Stars Head Coach, Emmanuel Amunike has dragged the federation to the World football governing body (F IF A), for unpaid dues. The former Nigerian football legend Amunike, who was fired by the TF F immediately after being eliminated on preliminary round from the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AF CON), finals in Egypt, is reportedly to have filed charges against the TFF the Arbitration Committee of FIFA over what claimed failure of the federation to settle his contractual entitlements. The former Nigeria and Barcelona winger, who is AF CON 1994 winner with the Super Eagles, wants the football world body to compel the Tanzanian F A to settle the contractual entitlement to him following the mutual agreement to terminate the remaining part of the contract last July. And the Nigerian tactician, Amunike is said to have requested the Arbitration Committee of FIFA to compel the East African nation to pay him his outstanding wages and it is said that for almost two months after the AF CON in Egypt, TFF are said to have broken its promise to pay him his claims. However, report from inside the federation unveiled that Amunike has not filed such a complaint to the world football governing body despite the prevailing reports from various media outlets and social media that the former Nigerian and Barcelona legend has dragged the federation to F IF A over unpaid cash. Amunike has been quoted by Nigeria’s Completesports.com as well THISDAY paper admitted that he had contacted FIFA on the issue. “Yes, it is true that I have not been settled what I am entitled to in my contract with the Tanzanian FA. I have already asked FIFA to help me intervene on the matter,” said in one of his quotes. While in another he said “I’ve contacted FIFA on the matter but it’s not something we should be making noise about, hopefully FIFA will look into and decide if it is proper for one not to be paid after work,” But almost two months after the AFCON in Egypt, the Tanzanian FA appears to have reneged on its promise to pay the FIFA U-17 World Cup winning coach his entitlement. The 48 years Amunike was relieved of the Taifa Stars’ job as the federation was not satisfied with his inability to take the team beyond the group stage of AF CON 2019 and Amunike agreed to terminate the coach’s contract on a mutual agreement. Tanzania, Taifa Stars was pooled in G roup C alongside eventual winners, Algeria; F inalists, Senegal and Kenya, with match venue at June 30 Stadium, Cairo. Stars lost 3-2 to Kenya’s Harambee Stars in the opening group match; Were beaten 2-0 by Senegal ‘ Lions of Teranga’ and completed the G roup C outing with another 3-0 loss to Algeria. The former Nigerian star who took up coaching after retiring and completed his coaching coaches in Europe in 2008 was coach of Sudanese side Al Khartoum Al Watani Sports Club in November 2017. But he walked away after just four months when the club told him to take a pay cut