TANZANIAN Women Parliamentarian Group (TWPG) has underscored the need for gender mainstreaming in climate change adaptation as it has adverse effects on women’s welfare. Speaking at a media briefing session recently, TWPG Chairperson Ms Margaret Sitta stressed that enhancing public awareness and knowledge on the critical role of gender in implementing climate change actions was very crucial. “Climate change adversely affects all people but women are more at risk because they are involved in effects of climate change on a day to day basis,” said Ms Sitta, who is also Urambo MP. She cited drought as an illustrative case, pointing out that since they are heavily involved in the agricultural sector and collecting water from faraway sources, they felt the effects of climate change more severely than other members of society. Ms Sitta said it was high time plans and strategies were formulate at national, regional or district levels, and providing a platform for kick starting the process of revising the Tanzania Gender and Climate Change Action Plan. She added that they were now planning to identify gender and climate change champions amongst MPs, to advocate sharper mainstreaming of gender and climate change in the national and district development planning and budgeting process. The champions will work to further generate evidence to support engagement with MPs to increase understanding on climate change and its impact in Tanzania. Ms FatmaToufique (Special Seats - CCM) said that climate change was currently the greatest challenge facing humanity across the world. “Women are disproportionately vulnerable to the effects of natural disasters and climate change when their rights and socio-economic status are not equal to those of men,” she said. Impacts in Tanzania include rising temperatures, increase in frequency and magnitude of droughts and floods, as well as rising sea levels. She emphasized that it was crucial to incorporate gender considerations into national policies, programmes and plans for adaptation and mitigation measures. Shakwaanande Natai, the national coordinator for the Tanzania National Smart Agriculture Alliance (TCAA), argued that despite the remarkable progress that Tanzania had made in terms of developing gender sensitive policies, their implementation was still a challenge.  