A TOTAL of 183 licensed liquor traders have been trained on best business skills, including how to increase profit margins and improve sustainability. Such training dubbed Retail Development Programme (RDP), which lasted for three months, was conducted in Dar es Salaam and Dodoma regions. Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) Trademark Marketing Manager Edith Buberwa said the programme was the group's contribution to the shared imperative of SABMiller of developing a thriving world. She explained that through it businesses were advised on customer development opportunities to ensure sustainable revenue and foster responsible trade and encourage self-regulation and compliance. Ms Buberwa noted that the programme was a continuation of the company's support to the group, which delivered products to last consumers, adding that TBL Group was committed to seeing it improving the way of doing business. "Thriving small businesses are the backbone of local communities and economies and since RDP was introduced it has enabled small businesses to secure supply, grow sales, reduce risks and build a long-term consumer base," she remarked. The manager further said training was provided in accordance with the needs identified following a study conducted by the company, which identified areas with gaps. Tanzania Association of Professional Business Development Services (TAPBDS) Project Manager Theresia Kato noted that training focused on sales techniques, discipline in spending money, how to keep records, competition in business and general entrepreneurship concepts. Ms Kato said beneficiaries also got an opportunity to be educated about environmental cleanness in the workplace and principles governing businesses, including procedures for running it. "As we hand over certificates to beneficiaries of the programme we believe RDP will enable them not only to grow their outlets and profits, but ensure their businesses are sustainable for longer and able to compete with the ever-growing formal trade offers to consumers," she commented.