MINISTER of State in Vice- President’s Office, Union and Environment, George Simbachawene has ordered removal of two inspectors from the Dar es Salaam Port, saying they are impeding efficiency in cargo clearance. The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) has strangely placed the two environmental inspectors whom the minister accused of frustrating efficiency in clearance of imported cargo at the port. Mr Simbachawene said importers have been complaining to the government over the confusion and disorder emanating from decisions and directives by the two inspectors on the packages of imported goods. According to Mr Simbachawene, importers said the confusion undermined cargo clearance, subjecting them to huge losses. During his tour of the facility, the minister realised that the inspectors were inappropriately deployed at the port and were not conversant with regulations under the Environmental Management Act 2004 that guide production, storage, marketing and use of plastic and non-plastic packages and carrier bags. “Apparently, the complaints of importers are genuine. The officials must be removed immediately because they are subjecting importers to undue losses…they are actually doing work that is unrelated to their professions and are not conversant with Regulation 9. “The regulation is clear on illicit plastic packages and carriers as well as those allowed for protecting health, facilitating packaging of industrial products in construction and agriculture sectors—foodstuffs, cleanliness and garbage containment,” Mr Simbachawene explained. He reminded NEMC to ensure that all placements of workers consider theirprofessions, explaining that NEMC was able to get right workers to do the job the two inspectors were doing incorrectly at the port. “A water engineer or lawyer must be assigned proper works, the laws of the land only seek to make life better not to complicate issues,” he insisted. Mr Simbachawene said packages and carriers in circulation must conform to the standards by Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), prohibiting from circulation all packages and carriers that don’t meet TBS guidelines. “Packages that don’t meet TBS standards are illicit and must be removed from circulation within 14 days. Culprits are risking severe legal measures, including confiscation and burning of the banned products,” he warned. The minister had visited the port as part of his regular followup schedule on implementation of government decisions, especially on importers’ complaints over confusions and product damages at the clearance point at the port.