PARENTS of children benefiting from BRAC Tanzania Play Lab Project have appealed to the US Congressional staff, who recently visited the country to support in the establishment of more centres at Yombo Vituka in Temeke District to accommodate more children living in disadvantaged and marginalised communities. Play Lab is an early childhood education development (ECD), programme aimed at supporting parents in disadvantaged and marginalised communities so that their children aged 3-5 years start realizing their education dreams into the mainstream primary schools. The call was made by a mother of a three-year old girl who is admitted at one of the institutions, when some of the staff recently visited them. Making the appeal Amina Chawa said that currently a particular centre can only accommodate 30 children less than the number of people who deserve help from it. "We are very grateful because our children can learn and play in very safe environment as you have witnessed, but the space is limited for many more children who are in need of the knowledge. "For they cannot access this service, the children coming from disadvantaged and marginalised communities helplessly play on the roads and expose themselves to great dangers like being knocked by vehicles," said Amina. However, the Associate Director, Global Policy and Government Affairs at RESULTS and RESULTS Educational Fund, Ms Crickett Nicovich expressed enthusiasm to the delegates for implementing the programme. Ms Nicovich noted that the objective of their visit was to learn on the critical importance of US funding on global health outcomes among other areas. "We are very pleased to meet with the teachers, children and parents and learn about their training for ECD programs and how this benefits child health and growth. "Besides the play labs, we have seen the activities of the women savings and credit groups and witnessed their strides in uplifting their families... we hope promise that when we return to the US, we will continue to speak for you," she said. The Program Manager– Education at BRAC Tanzania, Ms Suzan Bipa disclosed that early childhood education is encouraged for the healthy development and nurturing of all the children. Ms Bipa pointed out that the goal of the project was to enhance social emotional learning through the use of available low cost play materials. "The project was started in 2016 and it follows a developed play based curriculum. This project is facilitated in collaboration with local government in the street level and stakeholders from nongovernment organizations from local to national level. Through the project, parents and community leaders are also provided with social protection education," said Ms Bipa. Supported by LEGO foundation with 20 play labs in Mbeya and 20 in Dar es Salaam, Play Lab project has reached 3,600 children and enables 1, 200 children to graduate and join in mainstream primary education, and provide them with social protection education, where 3,600 parents so far are engaged.