LOCAL government elections across the country are scheduled to take place place in October this year. National leaders including President John Magufuli have been urging all of us to choose good leaders who are reputable in our society. For administrative purposes as we know, Tanzania is divided into 26 regions; 21 on the mainland, 3 on Zanzibar, and 2 on Pemba. These districts are also now referred to as local government authorities. Currently there are 114 councils operating in 99 districts, 22 are urban and 92 are rural. The 22 urban units are classified further as city (Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Tanga, Mbeya, Arusha and Mwanza), municipal councils; ( Iringa, Kilimanjaro, Morogoro, Shinyanga, Tabora), and town councils. The most important, intended links between the local government and the residents of the given area are the vitongoji in the rural areas and the urban are Mtaa committees, which are designed to mobilise citizen participation in local development. In our areas, priorities for local service delivery and development projects are brought to the Mtaa committees for discussion before being forwarded to the Ward Development Committee (WDC). Participatory budget-making has also become a mean to increase resident participation. It is currently enabled by the bottom-up budgeting through the ward development committees and the democratic structures above them. If we have bad local authorities we cannot raise revenue locally because the main sources of local income come from fees including taxi registration, bus stand/station, forestry products, valuation, scaffolding, inoculation and ambulance. Local Government Authorities exist for the purpose of consolidating and giving more power to the people to competently participate in the planning and implementation of development programmes within their respective areas and generally throughout the country. In modern nations, local governments usually have some of the same kind of powers as national governments do. For instance, they have some power to raise taxes, though these may be limited by central legislation. All Local Government Authorities are mandated to maintain law, order and good governance and also promote economic and social welfare of the people in their jurisdiction. Local governments ensure effective and equitable delivery of qualitative and quantitative services to the people within their areas of jurisdiction. In addition to the basic functions, all local governments are charged with formulation, coordination and supervision of the implementation of all plans for economic, industrial and social development in their areas of jurisdiction. They also monitor and control the performance of duties and functions of the council and its staff, and they also ensure the collection and proper utilization of the revenues of the council. Such governments make by-laws applicable throughout their areas of jurisdiction, and considering and improving bylaws made by village councils within their areas of jurisdiction. They also ensure, regulate and coordinate development plans, projects and programmes of villages and township authorities within their areas of jurisdiction. These governments are vitals because they also regulate and monitor the collection and utilization of revenue of village councils and township authorities. District councils coordinate the activities of the township authorities and village councils, which are accountable to the district for all revenues received for day-to-day administration. The village and township councils have the responsibility for formulating plans for their areas. In both locations, below the local authorities there are a number of democratic bodies to debate local development needs. In the rural system, the vitongoji, the smallest unit of a village, is composed of an elected chairperson who appoints a secretary and three further members all of whom serve on an advisory committee. In the Urban areas streets (mitaa) i.e. is the smallest unit within the ward of an urban authority. Unlike suburbs (vitongoji), the Mtaa Committees have a fully elected membership comprising of a chairperson, six members and an executive officer. At the village level, the government structure is comprised of a village assembly consisting of all persons aged 18 and above. The corporate entity of a registered village is the village council comprising of a chairman or chairperson elected by the village assembly. There are also village committees covering such matters as planning, finance, economic affairs, social services, security, forest protection and water resources. On the mainland Tanzania, chairpersons and mayors are indirectly elected by the elected members of their respective authorities. Village councils are elected by the village assembly comprising all adults over the age of 18. Village councils have between 15 and 25 members. These consist of a chairperson elected by the village assembly, all chairpersons of the vitongoji within its area and other members elected by the village assembly. Women must account for 25 per cent of the council members and the term of office for all councillors is five years. Revenues also come from licences including road, liquor, property taxes rents, fines, sale of assets and recovery of public fund. Let’s get ready for these elections, to enable us get good and reputable leaders.