DODOMA Regional Commissioner Dr Binilith Mahenge announced here yesterday that the government has injected over 12bn/- into a project for building 23 health centres in the country’s capital. Speaking at a public gathering in Chamwino District, the RC explained that at least five health centres had been built in Kondoa District alone, and three health centres each in Mpwapwa, Kongwa, Dodoma, Chemba, Bahi and Chamwino districts. “The plan by the government was to decentralise health care systems and ensure the service is closer to the general public,” the commissioner said. The commissioner stressed that President John Magufuli had pledged to improve health care systems in the country by increasing the medical budget and building more facilities. Dr Mahenge said with the government moving into the region, the State had resolved to improve social services, including healthcare. Already, a large number of Dodoma residents were accessing the service at the regional hospital and some private hospitals. “We built the Benjamin Mkapa ultramodern hospital and are setting up a modern facility in Chamwino which will strategically provide service to residents and people using the Dar es Salaam-Dodoma highway,” he said. The newly constructed hospital is close to the newly built State House. Residents here however have a different opinion, saying the hospital was just an “empty structure.” Speaking at the gathering, the residents said other than the structures, two of the recently procured ambulances were constantly out of fuel, thereby failing to meet the target of improving health care in the area. Paul Richard, a resident of Msanga village in the district, said expectant mothers and infants were at greater risk. “Just last week, a woman who had delivered twins lost the babies for lack of proper medical attention ... she was compelled to hire a private van to rush the babies to the regional hospital where they were pronounced dead,” he sorrowfully recounted. But the District Executive Director, Mr Athuman Masasi, explained that the council was awaiting delivery of equipment any time from now after receiving endorsement from the health ministry. “We understand that some dispensaries are also facing numerous challenges including shortage of health workers and housing; the government is currently working on identifying the actual gap and relocate some of its senior health workers to ensure a reasonable health service is provided throughout the country,” he noted.