ALL ministries and stakeholders in the education sector should coordinate professionally to avoid duplication of systems and policies, which waste government resources in their implementations. That was said here yesterday by the Deputy Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of State in the President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Ms Dorothy Gwajima, while winding up an annual Joint Education Sector Review. She further said that development partners working in the education sector should see the essence of teaming up with other non-government organizations too and civil society organizations to ensure that they develop links with mother ministries for consultations which benefit the local people. "Development partners and NGO or CSO, when you apply for funds to implement any society project, be it in education, health or other sector, be sure that you have coordinated links within you and thereafter approach the main ministry responsible,” she said. Dr Gwajima said that time was ripe for the education sector development partners, and stakeholders to have a Memorandum of Understanding on the best practice of how to implement strategies for the attainment of expected goals. "We need to come up with a new roadmap to coordinate and work together as all concerned parties, because this will avoid duplication of activities, but ensure proper distribution of resources," said the Deputy PS. However, she was impressed by their last year’s recommendations, which were 80 per cent implemented. Expounding, Dr Gwajima noted that to make this year's recommendations to be implemented much better, teamwork consultations with other stakeholders in the Ministry of Education would be necessary including organizing by-quarterly meetings to evaluate their goals. Hence, she directed the Departmental heads within the prime minister ministries to plan for the best mode of coordination for their goals to be achieved as also planned in this year's meeting. On his part, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Prof James Mdoe said they want to improve both the teaching and learning environment at all levels so that they realize the industrialization dream of the country. However, he noted that skills’ development of the workforce was necessary if the country were to stay on track to realize the industrialization, which also forms part of their core mission.