OUR journey to the top of Kanaka hills had been a bit adventurous. First, a python that had swallowed a goat frightened us out of our wits. The reptile was taking a nap in the shade of a large tree when we came along shuffling our feet in the tall grass. We were talking and laughing merrily about the challenges of living. A few minutes later, a brick red king cobra gave us a chase. We scuttled to safety but only just. We were a five-strong, hunting party intent on killing antelopes for their meat, skins, horns and hooves. Haggai, Saka, Hanifa, Ngaka and I had left the village of Sakawa at daybreak. The village was a rich farmers’ sanctuary that nestled in a lush green valley on the eastern shoreline of a fresh water lake. After our harrowing episode with the cobra we came to a large thicket. Haggai told us that a family of antelopes took a nap in this thicket in the afternoon. Haggai had flushed the antelopes out of the thicket the previous day but we believed that the browsers normally returned to the same den at night and took a nap in the afternoon. We took positions around the thicket looking forward to a wonderful hunting spree. I expected to mow down two or more antelopes with my high-velocity Magnum. I was standing a discreet distance away from the thicket with my hunting rifle held at the ready. Haggai and Saka peered into the thicket. You never know, an angry hyena or a terrified hog can storm out instead of a meaty antelope. I was ready to bring down anything that came my way. But it was the emergence of a hyena that worried me most. An terrified hyena can disembowel anyone in a split second. Sakawa had not yet forgotten the day a large hyena disemboweled Haggai's dog during a hunting foray. Indeed, hyenas were a menace in Sakawa. The beasts of the wild were notorious for stealing cattle. The predators emerged from their underground dens in the hills at night and came cantering into the village to forage for food. Some hid in thickets. They terrified women and children at night with their weird screams and laughter. Haggai had taken his position behind a large tree a few paces from the thicket. He lobbed stones into the thicket in a bid to flush out the antelopes that he had seen the previous evening. But the spectre of a hyena lurking in there still weighed heavily on my mind. We were not interested in hyenas, leopards, foxes or wild dogs. When provoked, these animals could easily turn around and attack intruders with ruthless bites and devil-may-care mauling. Haggai lobbed the fourth stone into the thicket. The stone sailed deep into the mass of foliage and twigs and landed with a thud. The fall sounded strange to our ears. It was a hollow echo. There was a split second of silence after the echo. Then, two surreal-looking beasts emerged from the thicket. The creatures had their teeth bared ready for nefarious action. Their growl thundered and reverberated in the hills. I clambered up a tall, pointed rock and managed to reach the peak rather miraculously. Haggai must have hit one of the beasts with the fourth stone. I recognized the animals immediately. They were spotted hyenas. One of the animals, a large male, nearly seized my leg as I clambered up the rock clumsily. The angry beast circled the rock growling. The other hyena, a female, pursued Haggai in earnest. Haggai made it to the top of a tree almost by fluke. He sat in the canopy trembling like a wet house-cat. The hyena attempted to pursue him but failed to climb the tree. Haggai looked limp and lifeless with fright as he watched the beast wide-eyed. I saw Saka, Hanifa and Ngaka flee the scene. I soon discovered that we had a dangerous fight on our hands. I saw the hyena that was pursuing me leap in an attempt to make a solid paw-hold on the smooth rock. I plucked up courage and aimed my rifle at the hyena that was attempting to climb the sheer rock. When I was serving in the army I was the best shot in my brigade. I could hit nine out of ten flying beer cans with uncanny precision without aiming. So, the hyena that was growling menacingly at the foot of the rock was in real danger. I could easily score a brain shot with my eyes closed. Even the female hyena that was giving Haggai the jitters was mincemeat to me. As these thoughts crossed my mind I discovered that my hands were trembling and that there was a chill crawling in my spine. I used to be a stoical, fearless fighter. But now, I must have lost some of the mettle. My hands were trembling like reeds in the breeze. The male hyena pawed the rock in a quest to come after me. It very nearly succeeded in hauling its bulk up in its fifth attempt. It got a solid paw-hold but slid and fell back when it heaved its hindquarters. It was at this juncture that my hunting rifle thundered. But, alas! I made a wide miss. The slug dug a hole in the ground stirring up a small cloud of dust. Two things happened at the same time. Terrified by the object that had thundered the aggressive hyena fled; and Haggai lost his grip on the tree branches and fell to the ground. The hyena that had been pursuing him took a leap and landed near him. It grabbed him by the left leg and shook him furiously. Haggai screamed in pain and desperation thrashing his right leg. I took aim at the hyena with tremulous hands and fired. I hit the beast in the rump, obviously by fluke. This turned out to be a grave mistake. The shot injured the animal making it more savage. It leapt into the air, groaned in pain and fell back on the ground. It grabbed Haggai's right leg and shook it viciously. I aimed hastily at the beast again and fired. This time I scored the all-important brain shot. The beast took a greater leap, howled and fell down. It lay still in a heap near Haggai, dying. Haggai was in very bad shape. I laid down the gun but, to my chagrin, I discovered that the fight was not over yet. The male hyena that was seemingly vanquished reappeared from the opposite direction keen on a fresh fight. Unknown to me, the female's howl was actually a distress call. I grabbed the rifle again and took aim as the more aggressive male arrived on the scene. It seized Haggai by the left leg. He screamed like a maniac. I fired my gun again and managed to score a good shot in the rib cage. The beast leapt in shock and fell down. I fired again and scored a killer shot. The shot saved Haggai's life. But I senselessly fired another shot in the direction of the hyena. To my chagrin, the bullet sunk into Haggai’s knee. I learned this bitter reality when I approached the seriously injured Sakawa elder. We left for Sakawa with Haggai riding on my back. I shambled along with difficulty. Haggai complained that his knee was killing him. He bleated like a goat, brayed like a donkey, screamed like a hyena and hollered like a monkey. It was my belief that Haggai was not aware that I had shot him. Haggai insulted the offending hyenas calling them obscene names. I told him that I had shot and killed them but he did not hear me. He ranted on about the smarting pain in his knee. When we arrived, much to my dismay, he told village elders that I had shot him in the knee!