KIGOMA Regional Commissioner (RC), Retired Brigadier General Emmanuel Maganga has with immediate effect ordered government employees in the area to stop engaging in unregistered financial organisations. The RC issued the order while receiving 1, 050 iron roofing sheets and 35m/- as donations from NMB Bank towards the construction of seven primary schools in Kasuku Council of Kigoma Region, yesterday. He further said that the government also came up with a process that would nullify all operating similar organisations, which failed to adhere to the law and are for personal businesses. The RC said that any government employee, who starts an organisation is doing so contrary to the State Employment Act, because it would divert his/her attention from serving the public. “Let me warn you. If you are a government employee, never start any organisation or a humanitarian organisation (NGO) because you cannot be a player in the field and at the same time be a referee, and once we discover you, we shall deal with you,” he added. Expounding further, Rtd Brig Gen Maganga thanked the bank for the assistance saying that the alms have been helping communities to address their challenges. Equally, he asked teachers in both secondary and primary schools in the region to make use of the bank and open accounts because it has branches right into villages, where they work. “Register with the bank to get loans and start businesses which would generate you income, besides your employment and grow economically. “In this world, all renowned and rich people must have borrowed or taken loans to prosper. Go and ask for loans from NMB here close to you, because to be born poor does not necessarily mean you will die poor. But, once you get money (loans) do not increase the number of wives,” he said. While handing over the donation, NBM Bank Western Zone Manager Sospeter Magesse said that his institution has set aside over 1bn/- from its profit to plough back into communities in its Social Corporate Responsibility (SCR). He said that out of the amount, already 80m/- has been spent to purchase different items to assist Kigoma Region in health and education sector. Mr Magesse said that the only challenge remaining is for parents and other stakeholders to motivate children to concentrate on studies in line with the government’s goal. On behalf of the institutions which received the donations, Kasulu Primary School Head Teacher, Martha Moremi thanked the bank for the assistance, saying: “However, the school with a population of 2,000 pupils still lack 600 desks out of 900 projected and in turn forcing many of them to sit on the floor.”