BAGAMOYO District has called for commercial fishing on its water in the Indian Ocean, targeting to attract fish processing industries in the district. District Fisheries Officer, Anthonia Mpemba told the 'Daily News' recently that there was potential for fish processing industries in the district but the challenge was lack of large scale fishing. "All fishermen here engage in fishing for domestic use, we desire to have commercial fishing to utilize marine resources in deep sea and feed the processing industries," Ms Mpemba stated. She was speaking ahead of the industrial exhibitions and business forum in the Coast region scheduled for 1st to 7th next month. The events are jointly organized by the Coast Regional Commissioner's Office, Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), Ltd and the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TANTRADE). At least 500 industries are expected to participate in the event which is slated to take place in Kibaha District. The district was upbeat that fishing processing plants will further boost its revenues, learning from a current upward trend of the contribution of the sector to the revenue from the district's own sources. Statistics indicate that revenue from a local fishing market increased during the past five years. Revenue collection increased from 56m/- in 2012/13 to 116m/- in 2017/18 financial year. "The revenue increase is due to improved performance and proper management of the sector," Ms Mpemba noted. According to her, fishermen depend on Dar es Salaam and Dodoma markets for their fish. Ms Mpemba called on stakeholders to support small fishermen in the district to enable them acquire better fishing equipment that will enable them fish in the deep sea. She said that the banks, for instance, could offer soft loans to the fishermen so that they can buy fishing tools such as modern fishing boats. Most of the fishermen in Bagamoyo use local fishing boats. In empowering fishermen in the district, she said the district administration plans to construct a new fish market at the Bagamoyo Old Town area. One of the fishermen, Mr Haji Ally, said fishing activities in the district was lucrative, saying he has been involved in the sector for the past 26 years. He however asked for access to soft loans from financial institutions to enable him buy a new boat engine for efficient fishing.