ELIZABETH Vitalis Kafumu (32), a mother of six, revealed that she was shocked when she laid eyes on her twins, saying that suicide became an option, believing that she was cursed. The resident of Makongo area at Magamba village in Mpanda municipality, Katavi Region revealed to our reporter that she felt upset and was ready to commit suicide after finding out that the twins, both boys, were born premature with their hands deformed. “I have never seen such condition in my life, I felt bad, believing that I was a cursed woman.....I thought of killing myself while in the maternity ward. My heart was full of unspeakable pain. Later I thought of abandoning the infants and run to any unknown destination,” she said. She said that she delivered her twins on August 8, this year at Katavi Region referral hospital here in the municipality at around 7:30 pm. According to her, the first twin weighed 2.5 kilograms while the second was 2.7 kilograms. She further narrated that before giving birth, she already had four children--all girls who are physically fit, where the first born is 12 years of age and in standard five, the second born is in standard one with nine year, the third girl is in nursery school aged six years old, and the fourth is aged four and a half years old. “I’m a petty trader selling sweet potatoes and mangoes. The father of the four children died when his last born was only ten months old,” she added. In what appears to be like adding salt to a wound, the father of the twins identified as Haruna Shaban Mohamed (35), who was working as a manual laborer with one of the Chinese construction companies in the region abandoned her after seeing the twins. “We are not yet married... Haruna cared for me throughout my pregnancy, but after delivering the malformed twins, he deserted us and ended up blacklisting me on his mobile phone,” she painfully explained. Commenting, a doctor at the Katavi regional referral health facility, Dr Yusta Tizeba said such incidents always occur due to various reasons, including heredity linked to DNA from both parents, malnutrition during pregnancy or being in severe distress. On her part, the Mpanda Municipal Council Social Welfare Officer, Ms Agnes Baleganya confessed that the newly born twins are not healthy, calling on Good Samaritans to come forward to help her and save the lives of the twins.