THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), has delivered its judgment in favour of a Tanzanian Benedicto Mallya, who was denied a right to liberty guaranteed under Article 6 of the African Charter for Human and Peoples’ Rights. The AfCHPR unanimously found that the respondent (Tanzania), violated the applicant’s right to liberty by failing to place at his disposal procedural guarantees that would have made it possible to avoid arbitrary imprisonment in view of the fact that he was acquitted on appeal. Concerning the alleged violation of the right to appeal and the right to be tried within a reasonable time, the Court under its President, Justice Sylvain Ore unanimously found that the respondent state violated the applicant’s right to appeal under Article 7(1) (a) and (b), of the Charter by failing to provide the applicant with certified copies of the record of proceedings and judgment within a reasonable time. The applicant prayed the Court to order reparation, while the respondent state prayed the Court to declare that it had acted in good faith by releasing the applicant and that that was sufficient reparation. The Court noted that the applicant had not made detailed submissions on reparation, but due to the seriousness of the violations established, it declared that it would rule on the reparation and costs at a later stage. Mr Mallya was convicted on May 16, 2000 for defiling (raping), a seven-year old girl and was sentenced to life imprisonment before the Moshi District Court. He was 15 years old at the time he was sentenced. Specifically, he outlined Articles 6 on the right to liberty and Article 7(1)(a) and (d) on the right to appeal and the right to be tried within a reasonable time. The applicant alleged that on May 19, 2000, he filed a notice of appeal to the High Court of Tanzania in Moshi challenging his conviction and sentence. He further alleged that since filing the notice of appeal, he was not provided with certified copies of the record of proceedings and judgment to enable him file his appeal at the High Court despite several letters he had sent to the Registrar of the High Court of Tanzania in Moshi. Mr Mallya alleged further that he had filed a constitutional petition at to the High Court of Tanzania seeking to enforce his constitutional rights under Article 13 (6),(a), of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, but the process was hindered by circumstances. The applicant then filed the application before the AfCHPR on September 1, 2015. On February 9, 2016, the High Court in Moshi, of its own motion, called for the applicant’s records in his criminal appeal. Subsequently, on February 15, 2016, it ordered a hearing of the appeal. According to the respondent state, on February 22, 2016, the appeal was considered and consequently, the High Court allowed the appeal, quashed the conviction, set aside the sentence and ordered the applicant’s release after casting doubt on the evidence relied on by the District Court in Moshi. The applicant said in May 2016 after serving 15 years and nine months in prison, he was released. He now awaits the Af- CHPR’s decision on reparation.