TANZANIANS should have a culture of writing wills before their demise to avoid misunderstandings among their families, who would want to inherit and share wealth left behind by the deceased. The piece of advice was given recently in Kilimanjaro Region by Tanzania Women Lawyers Association (TAWLA) Ms Happiness Mfinanga, while presenting a paper to a farmers’ organisation- MVIWATA in the area. At the workshop that was part of the organisation’s 12th Annual General, she further said: “There are those who have ill perceptions that by preparing a Will would lead to him/ her die quickly, but this is not true. Instead, it is meant to make those who would remain to peacefully share one’s wealth amicably.” Ms Mfinanga said that her experience is that once one prepares a will, one still lives long without worries of how the left behind offspring would share the inheritance. “The good thing here is that one can also decide to change a will as par the developing changes, and the chance to change a will is one of the benefits of writing one, while one is still alive,” she added. She hinted that when one faces a challenge on how to write one, they should be consulted or any other legal expert(s). On his part, Moshi District Council (MDC) Cooperative Officer, Mr Eliona Omar called upon farmers to join them for their prosperity. “To survive in this world of stiff economic competition, you should be members of the cooperative in Kilimanjaro region, just in the same way countries are joining forces to form the European Union, (EU), Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and now the East African Community (EAC), which is an economic integration of East Africa partner states,” he said. There is no short cut, he noted, apart from teamwork adding that no one or group would escape the reality in the current world of free market, globalisation and free trade. “By joining forces, it will be easy for you in cooperative societies and cooperative unions alike to identify challenges which face you, a move that would make it easy you to address them,” he said.