SHOULD anybody who writes in English at this time and age mix up the application of pronouns: he, she, her, his, him, her, to men or women? Well, the mix-up is still being practiced. Visit page 3 of the Custodian of 21 September, and read this news item titled: “Father in soup for ‘stopping daughter from sitting exams’”. In his opening paragraph, the writer tells a sad story; “A resident of Paramawe village, Nkasi District, Rukwa Region, LK (55) has been arrested for allegedly preventing ‘her’ daughter from sitting for this years’ Primary School Leaving Examinations so that she could get married”. There would have not been any reason to query the above sentence, had the arrested resident, LK (55) been female, (like for example being the mother of the girl who was prevented from sitting for the examinations). LK is male, he is a dad who is creating obstacles so that the girl does not write the examination. The girl is “his daughter”, not “her daughter”. She is Dad’s girl. The father had claimed that the daughter had fallen ill; that is why she did not appear for the examinations, but the situation was different. Here is our writer once again: “For his part, Paramawe Ward Councilor, WK, said that the child said that she was not ill, but ‘his’ father ‘denied her’ from doing the examination so that she can get married”. His father? Not at all. She is female, so it is “her father” who is doing the mischief. Is the mix-up groomed in the family? Like father like daughter? For, we see the father referring to the daughter as “her daughter”; and in turn the daughter is referring to the dad as “his father”. How about this idea of the father “denying her from doing the examination”? I would go for verbs like “prevent” or “obstruct”. The sentence could therefore be rewritten as follows: “For his part, Paramawe Ward Councilor, WK, said that the child told him that she was not ill, but ‘her’ father ‘prevented her’ from doing the examination so that she can get married”. The District Executive Director for Nkasi is reported to have: “expressed sadness that there were still some parents who do not encourage their children to study even as the government is providing free education”. Yes, you do not expect that at this time and age, parents will stand in the way of their children’s education; education, which is, moreover, being given free. You also do not expect that writers will mix up these basic but gendered pronouns: he, she, his, hers, him, and her. Meanwhile, there is, on page 5 of the same Custodian, information about a report launched by a Human Rights Centre, in “many” this year showing that incidents of violence against children in the country had increased to 6376 last year (2018) compared to the previous year”. Hold on, what does “in many this year” mean? The writer seems to be convinced about this “in many” something, for, as we read further on, we are told: “In 2017 some 4,728 (cases of violence against children) were reported. This was said by the Executive Director of the Human Rights Centre when launching the report “in Many 14, this year”. We are convinced that the writer had May (not Many) in mind. May is the name for the fifth of the twelve-month Gregorian Calendar; the rest being: January, February, March, April, June, July, August, September, October, November, December. Of course May is the shortest of the 12 names, but that is no excuse to try and make it longer surreptitiously. We need better news from the world of children. They are tomorrow’s adults and we have no business preventing them from acquiring education; or committing violence against them. Lastly, this observation on education, to be found on page 17 of the (Kenyan) Saturday Magazine (14 September) caught my attention: “There are two types of learners in this world – there are self-teaching learners. This type ‘scores’ the internet gathering information on what they need to learn………”. “To score the internet” does not read right. A quick reference to the Oxford Dictionary convinced me that what the writer had in mind was not “score”, but rather “scour”. The latter means: “to search a place, or thing thoroughly in order to find somebody or something”. Instead of denying our children education, we should be encouraging them to scour the internet to gather the information that is relevant to their studies. That way, they may score highly in life. lusuggakironde@gmail.com