WITH cases of early pregnancies on the increase, stakeholders need to come up with clear strategies to tackle the problem. This was said yesterday by the Dar es Salaam Regional Medical Officer, Dr Yudas Ndungile during a stakeholder’s event for reduction of maternal mortality and morbidity in Tanzania held in Dar es Salaam. Dr Ndungile said that something must be done to save the lives of children in the country who continue to lose their lives due to unsafe abortions which they undertake after becoming pregnant. He said that a national dialogue between the government and stakeholders should be conducted to look on how the whole issue of unsafe abortion and adolescent sexual behavior should be addressed. “The situation is somehow tricky, because on the other hand the youth need to be educated on their sexual behavior, but at the same time there are some restrictions as far as sexual education among the youth is concerned, that is why it is vital for stakeholders, including the government, to sit together and chart solutions towards this problem,” he said. The event which was organized by Pathfinder International in partnership with several stakeholders, including Women Global Network for Reproductive Rights (WGRR), Marie Stopes, WADADA and UMATI aimed at discussing the effects of laws governing abortion and reduction of maternal mortality rates. Dr Belinda Balandya from the Association of Gynaecologists and Obstetricians of Tanzania (AGOTA), said that according to reports, 50 percent of unintended pregnancies end up in abortion, where a big percentage end up in death or sustain long term morbidities. “Worldwide, 20 million unsafe abortions are performed every year, and half of them, in most cases, end up with the victims losing their lives, and in Tanzania alone, reports indicate that one million women have unintended pregnancies every year,” she said. She said that out of this number, 405,000 of these women have clandestine abortions, where 40 percent result in complications that require medical attention. On his part, Bateyunga Kelvin Paul, an independent lawyer told participants that Tanzania mainland’s laws and policies on termination of pregnancy are somewhat unclear, confusing and often contradictory, yet they more expansive than most believe. “However, the government has repeatedly acknowledged the harm of unsafe abortion and has affirmed its commitment to providing comprehensive post-abortion care,” he said. He however added that the absence of comprehensive government policies and guidelines on the provision of safe and legal abortion has grave consequences for women in need of these services.