IT is not the end of the African Nations Championship campaign for Taifa Stars after Sunday’s loss to Sudan, the team’s goalie Juma Kaseja says the chance is still there. Taifa Stars lost 1-0 at home to Sudan in the first leg of CHAN, hence are shouldered with an uphill task in the return leg in Omdurman to get a ticket to play in the 6th CHAN finals in Cameroon. Kaseja, who plays for KMC FC as a custodian says he is still optimistic Taifa Stars can make it to the 2020 Chan finals after the Sunday defeat to Sudan. The veteran custodian, Kaseja adds he has not lost hopes of qualifying as he is motivated and highly inspired to play for the national team in the finals. Since making his return to the national team, the goalkeeper has made several world-class saves including stopping penalties which have helped Taifa Stars to beat Kenya in the preliminary round of the race to the 2020 Chan finals in Cameroon. However, the shot-stopper was unable to help his team avoid the 1-0 loss to Sudan on Saturday, but is still optimistic of progression. For Stars who face uphill task in the away return leg in Omdurman after 1-0 loss, to advance to the finals like they did in 2009, they must win by not less than a two-goal margin, something Kaseja believes to be very possible. Besides losing the game, Stars played and dominated in almost all 90 minutes, but they failed to score against highly disciplined Sudanese defenders. Sudan, who lost to Stars in their both away and home games in 2009, looked unwilling to be victims this time around. Sudan’s cautious defensive game, depended on counter attacks, they were lucky it paid off through Yassir Mudhamir Mahmoud’s strike in the 60th minute. Coach Etienne Ndayiragije must increase sharpness upfront if he wants his boys to beat Sudan at their home ground as the wastefulness committed couldn’t even be counted. Speaking during the post-match briefing Coach Ndayiragije said if they lost at home they can also win away as they did against Kenya. He promised to rectify all mistakes committed by his players during the match. Taifa Stars were punished in the 60th minute when unmarked Yassir Mohamed scored an easy goal capitalising on Stars’ defensive laxity. Taifa Stars, battling to win at home so that to put themselves in a comfortable situation in the reverse made serious attacks in the dying minutes but ‘wastefulness’ seemed to be their order of the day. Stars need nothing but aggregate win over Sudan to guarantee their second appearance in CHAN finals set for Cameroon in 2020. The tournament is designed exclusively for footballers playing in their domestic league. Stars interim Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije, looked eager to emulate what former Stars coach Brazilian Marcio Maximo did in 2009, who guided Tanzania into the first edition of CHAN finals, which was staged in Ivory Coast. "It is tough as I want to play in this year’s CHAN" said goalie Juma Kaseja. “Although I have played several times for the national team, I was not lucky to be among the players, who were picked in the squad that competed in 2009 CHAN finals and the recent 2019 AFCON finals in Egypt and this is motivating me to see that we make into the next year’s CHAN finals,” he said. Kaseja has revealed to 'Daily News' after the reason behind his impressive displays.