YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said they will need to score at all cost in their CAF Champions League (CAF CL) reverse tie against Zesco United. The two teams meet again on September 28th this year at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Lusaka, Zambia in a decisive match whose winner will earn a ticket to play in the group stage of CAF Champions League. After a tense first leg match at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, it was the visitors who laboured much to hit the equalising goal in the final seconds of addition time courtesy of a powerful strike by Thabani Kamusoko. The former Yanga midfielder was left unmarked inside the penalty box to brilliantly release the shot which made headlines after the game and consequently silenced home fans who were already on their feet waiting the final whistle to celebrate. But now, with the results tied at 1-1, a scoreless draw in Zambia will be enough for Zesco to go deep into the contest while Yanga will drop to the CAF Confederation Cup. However, at a post-match briefing, Zahera repeatedly said his side still has a chance to progress further into the hot contest and all will be seen in Zambia. “Our number one objective ahead of the return leg is to score the away goal no matter the circumstance since we have capacity to do so,” he said. Zahera added that immediately after taking the lead, his charges started to slow down attacking pace thereby allowing the Zambians to invade their space and cause troubles. “Whenever you score first, try to increase momentum to get the second goal but that was not the case with my team. Even if we had won today (Sunday), still we had to thrive to get a goal in Zambia as such, all is not lost because we will get a goal there,” said the coach. Asked to comment the performance shown by his former midfielder Kamusoko, Zahera said he was not that dangerous to his team even though he sourced out a goal for the Zambians. “In football, sometimes, you can score a goal but play badly. He (Kamusoko) did not trouble us a lot,” lamented Zahera. He then disclosed that the player who caused damage to his squad during the game was Jesse Were who put on jersey number 25 due to his mobility and pass accuracy. On his part, Zesco United Head Coach George Lwandamina said they expect another tough clash at their territory in Lusaka. “We conceded first through a penalty but we were positive of the equaliser. Yanga tried to put much pressure on us, they pressed well and gave us no chance to play our style but we maintained the pace of the game. “We knew that we had chance to score and the goal came in the final minute. We know that it will be a tough game at home, but we have good record there and we can beat them,” he said. Furthermore, the former Yanga employee cautioned his ex-club that Zesco United have never lost a match at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium but said that should not be enough to make them relax. “I know that Yanga have the best away record and even when I was there, we used to win much away games but we have never lost there,” said Lwandamina.