DRUMS and traditional dances from all East African Community (EAC) member states culminated in style as the regional Arts and Culture extravaganza came to a close yesterday. The 4th edition of the extravaganza, dubbed Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival (JAMAFEST) staged at the National Stadium and Uhuru Stadia in Dar es Salaam opened last Saturday with pomp and fanfare. Zanzibar Second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi graced the closing ceremony of JAMAFEST 2019 and the audience was treated to myriads of dances and flares. And, as Burundi takes the flag that represents the next JAMAFEST, Ambassador Iddi announced the end of the eight-day festival in Dar es Salaam, with one major request that is to add one more day. “I believe that once the guest of honour speaks, he cannot be refused, and all I request is to have one more day so that even those who were at work could have a day to visit this wonderful festival,” he said. Temeke District Commissioner Felix Lyaniva, who addressed the spectators on behalf of Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda, initiated the request that the guest of honour insisted on. The Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe revealed that due to the current organised timetable of JAMAFEST and considering the rotation within the member state, the festival will be hosted by Tanzania after ten years. Mwakyembe was also proud to announce that the level at which this festival has been successful, it has exceeded all the first three festivals and has set pace to which Burundi has to achieve. “I congratulate everyone who participated and contributed to the festival. As for it to be successful it needed people who were committed, united and ready to share our cherished culture and traditions,” he said as he proudly praised the organising committee as well. Organisers said, the objective of the festival is to promote regional socio-cultural integration, through The Arts and Culture. It also aims at fostering the economic development of the EAC, through creating a market for cultural goods and services, as well as promoting The Arts and Culture, as a tool of communication in branding the bloc. The theme of JAMAFEST 2019 - “Cultural Diversity: A Key Driver to Regional Integration, Economic Growth and Promotion of Tourism”- was well-crafted to fit the mission of integrating the Region in social, cultural and economic aspects.