…telemedicine hubs expected to address shortage of medical specialists HEALTH, Community Development, Elderly and Children Ministry and Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) plan to establish telemedicine hubs to enhance access to health services by majority Tanzanians. Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) in Dar es Salaam are expected to host the envisaged hubs. Telemedicine refers to the practice of caring for patients remotely, with the service provider and patient not meeting physically. It allows health care professionals to evaluate, diagnose and treat patients at a distance using telecommunications technology. Some regional and district hospitals countrywide have already been connected to the hubs whose services are scheduled to take-off early next month, according to the National Telemedicine Coordinator in the ministry, Dr Vumilia Ligi. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Monday during a tour of DIT by Indian High Commissioner to Tanzania Sanjiv Kohli, Dr Ligi said telemedicine services will be conducted in both ‘store and forward’ and ‘real time’ methods, clarifying: “The first method is when health service providers will be recording the patient’s information, storing them and then forwarding (them) to the hubs for more check-ups.” The second approach entails experts from the hubs conducting face to face communication with service providers in other hospitals using video calls in front of the patient, he explained. The higher commissioner had visited the institute to observe development of India-Tanzania Centre of Excellence in Information and Communications Technology. The telemedicine services will serve in among others, time saving and travel costs for patients from remote areas to seek advanced medical services, said Dr Ligi, adding, “Remember, telemedicine services will be for hospitals which experience shortage of experts, including surgeons, to deal with serious diseases. It means all serious health conditions and surgeries will be conducted in either of the telemedicine methods.” The India-Tanzania Centre of Excellence Director, Dr Joseph Matiko, said the contribution of DIT to telemedicine hubs will be in term of ICT related services, including software, which will be transferring patients’ information from the hospitals to the hubs and vice versa. He acknowledged the Indian government support in training DIT employees to manage the telemedicine technology.