THE government has assured members of the public that it is committed to renovating all 88 defunct water projects across the country to ensure the majority of people get access to water supply by 2020. Water Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, noted yesterday that the government was using engineers from the water supply and sanitation authorities to renovate the defunct water projects which were implemented by private contractors. "We are renovating all the defunct water projects, which have been implemented by private contractors since 2010," said the minister, while addressing residents of Ng'ong'ona Ward in the city during the launch of the water project in the area. Funded by the German Corporation for International Cooperation (GIZ), the Ng'ong'ona Water Project worth 331m/-, will serve 12,000 residents of Ng'ong'ona, who have been facing water scarcity since independence. Prof Mbarawa noted that the Ng'ong'ona Water Project, which is among the 10 water projects under construction since 2013, is being implemented by the government in conjunction with GIZ for six months after taking it over from a private contractor. He noted that the government had set a target to ensure 95 per cent of residents in urban areas, 85 per cent of villagers and 90 per cent of district residents get access to water supply by 2020. Prof Mbarawa urged members of the public to safeguard water projects against vandalism for water supply to be sustainable and asked them to report any case of sabotage to the authorities for action. Speaking at the same event, Dodoma Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Duwasa) Managing Director David Pallangyo said the project involved the construction and rehabilitation of a water supply network, including a water reserve tank and 19 water kiosks to bring closer water service to people. "The water project will address a long time challenge of water scarcity to the residents of Ng'ong'ona Ward," he said. For her part, Senior Policy Officer in Charge of East Africa in the German Federal Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation Vera Rosendahl said the project was another example of friendly relations between Tanzania and Germany. She said the main objective of the project was to improve water supply in selected underserved urban areas. Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister's Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and Disabled Persons) and MP for Dodoma Urban Constituency Anthony Mavunde expressed gratitude to GIZ and the government for the water project in Ng'ong'ona Ward. He said the Ng'ong'ona Water Project would reduce the price of water from between 250/- and 500/- to 25/- per 20 litres of water.