A local non-profit civil society organization (HAKIELIMU), in collaboration with other education stakeholders is implementing a pilot project in Tanzania aimed at ensuring that young Tanzanians are enrolled in higher quality and safe pre-primary school. The three-year project dubbed ‘Mwanzo Mzuri’ will help improve school readiness and support the young students for pre-primary schools to reach their full potential. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Executive Director of HakiElimu, Dr John Kalega said that the project established in 34 schools in Tanzania kicked off in May 2018 and it is scheduled to end in April 2021. The HakiElimu top boss made the revelation when closing training for private and public pre-primary school teachers in Tanzania conducted under the project to impart them with knowledge and skills on how to handle children in pre-primary studies for quality results. “The project is building the capacity of school teachers on early child development, establishing and strengthening quality education for early child development learners in the selected schools,” he said. According to Dr Kalega, there is still a big gap in early child development matters in many schools, because children enrolled in pre-primary schools are not getting the quality of education they need. “Many studies indicate that children who receive pre-primary education perform better in school and reach their full potential later in life---and for that matter, we need to put up a better foundation for pre-primary education to ensure quality education for the learners,” he said. According to the 2012 World Bank report, Tanzania has no specific budget for pre-primary education, and often pre-primary tend to have the least qualified teachers, low resources and poor learning facilities for younger students while classrooms are overcrowded. On the other hand, an official with Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF), Ms Marjolya Wilmik said the Mwanzo Mzuri project is very crucial in educating children at an early age to become creative and have the ability to be innovative. “The programme is really interesting, as it involves various learning processes, action research, training teachers to see how it works and how children react to it,” She said, adding that the program also involves parents and other community members, empowering them with knowledge and structures to engage in and drive solutions for issues of early child development. Mwanzo Mzuri Programme which is funded by UK aid through HDIF is being delivered in partnership with HakiElimu, VIA University College and Mkwawa University College of Education