TANZANIA has 18 large cashew processing plants with installed capacity of processing 63,400 tonnes of cashew nuts per year, the Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade, Stella Manyanya said in Parliament yesterday. She said 13 out of the large processing plants were operating and the remaining stopped operations while she was responding to Abdallah Chikota (Nanyamba, CCM), who wanted to know installed capacity of cashew nut processing plants in Tanzania. The Deputy Minister said there were 16 small scale cashew processing plants with installed capacity of processing 9,610 tonnes. Total installed capacity of cashew nut processing plants in Tanzania is 73,010 tonnes per year and the utilisation capacity is not more than 50,000 tonnes, she said. The Deputy Minister said the government was encouraging the private sector to establish cashew processing plants to increase the value chain of the crop, and it has managed to convince three cashew exporters to construct processing plants. She mentioned them as Al Andalus Company of Mnazi Mmoja in Lindi, Mkemi Agrix Company and Fuzzy International Company of Mkuranga District in the Coast region. The government had managed to get another investor who is constructing a processing plant in Mtwara region and a foundation stone was laid by President John Magufuli in April this year, she said. The new processing plant will have capacity to process 6,000 tonnes per year, which will be raised to 10,000 tonnes, she said. She said the new plant which will use modern technology is expected to provide 250 job opportunities. Tanzania is among the world's largest producers of raw cashew nuts, with a total production of 313,826 tonnes in the 2017/18 crop year, according to Cashewnut Board of Tanzania figures. The country is the eightth largest grower of cashew nut in the world and ranks fourth in Africa. The government has launched a drive to revive old processing plants and inviting investors to open processing plants in efforts to reverse exports of the crop in raw form, which is seen as exporting job and trade opportunities abroad. About 90 per cent of cashew nuts used to be exported to India in their raw form until last season when the government bought all the cashew nuts harvests amounting to 220,000 tonnes from farmers after private buyers refused to increase prices offered to growers as directed by President John Magufuli. President Magufuli raised cashew nut price to at least 3,000/- per kilogramme to protect farmers from low prices.