THE prestigious Tanzania Open Golf Championship 2019 has once again shifted to the championship course Kili Golf Club of Arusha in November. The annual country’s most prestigious competition was earlier scheduled to tee off at the Morogoro Gymkhana Club in Morogoro from August 12 to18 this year but was re-scheduled for several reasons. Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) Competition Secretary, Enock Magile told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations are on top gear for the event to take place in Arusha. Magile said that this time around the competition that will draw top golfers from around the world will tee off from November 29 to December 1st this year. “Everything is going well for the event that will see top amateurs and professionals battle it out for the top honours,” he said. Tanzania Open will for the first time be fully organised by the union due to last year’s amendments made by newly elected office bearers under President Chris Martin. TGU has made major reforms at organising national level competitions by selecting top events that will be under the union supervision. The 69th edition of the tournament returns at the Kili Golf club after the par- 73 course played host to the event last year. Magile said that TGU is working tirelessly to ensure the competition fulfills their desire and bring new look that would be different from events organised at club level. The competition secretary said the 72 holes championship is open for both men and ladies and appealed for golfers to come forward in their numbers to make it a successful event. He said they have also extended invitation to other countries. At the last event national team Captain Victor Joseph shared the title with Kenyan Edwin Mudanyi at Kili golf course. The two tied with aggregate score of 296 gross after four rounds of 72 holes to force playoff that both went to par-3 no. 18 twice without a winner before darkness ended it all and organisers decided to split the title into two. Professional golfers defending champion is South African Zimbabwean-based Ryan Cairns, who won top prize with aggregate 291 (73,73,73,72 ).