TWO Dar es Salaam residents, Mohamed Omary and Akida Mtoro, alias RAS, appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in the city last Friday charged with trafficking a Tanzanian to Pakistan for debt bondage of narcotic drugs, worth 540m/-. The duo denied the charge before Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo. Since the offence is not bailable, the magistrate ordered the accused who reside at Tegeta and Ununio beach, respectively, to go to remand until September 25, 2019 when the case will be mentioned. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution, have not been completed. Prosecuting, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon told the court that the accused committed the offence on diverse dates between April 17 and August 17, 2015 in Kinondoni District in the city. The prosecution alleged that Omary and Mtoro transported Mwinyimkuu Ubaya, alias Mwinyi from Dar es Salaam, to Pakistan, for the purpose of debt bondage in connection with trafficking in narcotic drugs. Earlier, the prosecution had charged the duo alongside a resident of Magomeni Kagera, Nassor Amour, in connection with the offence. Additionally, the trio was previously facing another charge of trafficking in narcotic drugs. However, the prosecution decided to file the new case, discharging Amour with the criminal liability and dropping the charge of trafficking in narcotic drugs in favour of all the three accused, remaining with Omary and Mtoro, who were charged with only one count of trafficking in persons. In the trafficking in narcotic drugs count, the prosecution had alleged that between April 17 and August 17, 2015 on diverse places within Ilala and Kinondoni District, all three accused trafficked heroin hydrochloride weighing nine kilogrammes valued at 540m/-. The fight against human trafficking is one of the core global activities of the International Organisation for Migration. Human trafficking is the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons. It is also by means of threat, use of force or other means of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability or of receiving or giving of payment to a person having control over another person and for the purpose of exploitation. Human trafficking is one of the most heinous crimes on Earth. Tanzanian law does not prohibit all forms of trafficking in persons and Zanzibar has a separate legal code from the mainland of Tanzania. On the mainland, traffickers can be prosecuted under existing statutes criminalizing the sale of people, forced labour, child labour and various sexual offenses. On Zanzibar, traffickers can be prosecuted under the Penal Act that criminalizes kidnapping, abduction and slavery. Tanzania’s anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts improved significantly last year as a result of new training of police, unprecedented government funding of the police’s Anti-Human Trafficking Unit and increased awareness of trafficking among Tanzania’s law enforcement community