THE Executive Director for Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) in Coast Region, Ms Anne Maridadi, has urged the government and other stakeholders to encourage agriculture related public education, so as to enable small-scale farmers produce standard horticultural crops. Despite abundance of processing industries in the region, investors have been shunning locally produced horticultural products and go to other regions, simply because they (farm outputs) do not meet standards, said the Executive Director. She was speaking during a stakeholders’ meeting held yesterday as part of preparations for the forthcoming industry, trade exhibition and investment forum, set to take place from the 1st to the 10th of next month in the region. The TCCIA boss commented that, “It is discouraging to see local farmers failing to tap markets available in their areas. We do encourage continuous education as well as availability of enough community development officers to make sure that all farmers are reached,” she said, stressing that, “Horticultural products are in high demand due to a huge number of processing industries in the Coast Region; hence, relevant authorities should take immediate action to help small farmers grab the opportunities.” On the other hand, she made a call for the government to improve infrastructure in some areas of the region, so as to easy market accessibility to some farm products. He cited an example of coconuts produced abundantly in Mafia District, but don’t have markets due to poor infrastructure. According to her, the area produces over 35,000 tonnes of coconuts per year, but there are no markets at all despite various and important uses of such product. “There are some efforts by the relevant government to overcome such a challenge, but the goal is yet to be achieved. There is need to hasten the process in an effort to improve farmers’ living standards, on top of other national benefits,” she said. Coast Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Ms Theresia Mbando commented that market search was among the targeted goals of the exhibitions. The goal will be attained through intermingling of local and foreign trade and investment stakeholders. The event is to be coordinated and supervised by the Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN), which signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Coast Regional Commissioner’s Office mid last week.