THE United Nations (UN) has commended the government of Tanzania for its relentless efforts in safeguarding peace in the Great Lakes region, promising its commitment to working together with the second largest economy in the East Africa Community (EAC) to curb incidents caused by extremism. The praises and pledge of commitment from the UN came after the government signed the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW), bringing the number of signatory States to 79. UN Secretary-General António Guterres heaped the praises and expressed the international organisation’s support to Tanzania during talks he held in New York with Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi. The talks between the leaders focused on various issues, including development in the Great Lakes region, the state of politics in Burundi and peace and security in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Mr Guterres said the UN fully recognised and valued the contribution of Tanzania to regional stability, adding that the international organisation was ready to cooperate with Tanzania in preventing occurrences of bad incidents brought about by extremism. For his part, Prof Kabudi assured the UN SecretaryGeneral of Tanzania’s continued cooperation with its peacekeeping missions in DRC and other parts of the world for the major objective of making the world a better place to live. Prof Kabudi noted that Tanzania supported UN reforms. He capitalised on the occasion to inform the UN Secretary-General on various reform measures instituted by Tanzania to meet UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Speaking on the signing of TPNW, Prof Kabudi said Tanzania fully supported the prohibition of nuclear weapons as part of the measures to make the world a better place to live. Under the Treaty nuclear weapons are described as weapons of mass destruction (WMD). A WMD is a nuclear, radiological, chemical, biological or any other weapon that can kill and bring significant harm to numerous humans or cause great damage to human-made structures (e.g., buildings), natural structures (e.g., mountains) or the biosphere. However, Prof Kabudi said Tanzania supported the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes such power generation. He said the use of nuclear weapons was not the best way of ensuring the world became a better place to live in. At the ceremony, Botswana, Dominica, Grenada, Lesotho, Saint Kitts and Nevis and Zambia signed the Treaty while Bangladesh, Kiribati and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic deposited their instruments of ratification. Maldives and Trinidad and Tobago both signed and ratified it. Together with the deposit of Ecuador’s instrument of ratifications on 25 September, 2019, the number of ratifying states is now 32 and the number of signatory States is now 79. Prof Kabudi was expected yesterday to address the United Nations General Assembly.