TRADE volume between Tanzania and Indonesia increased to 334.7 million US dollars during the financial year 2018 from 303.4 million US dollars recorded the previous year, translating to an increase of ten per cent. During the period under review, the value of exports from Tanzania to the southeastern Asian country increased by 63 per cent from 26 million US dollars to 71 million US dollars. Tanzania’s major exports to Indonesia include cloves, cotton, tobacco, cocoa and copper whereas the latter’s exports include edible crude palm oil, machinery parts, chemical products, paper and garments, among others. The Indonesian Ambassador to Tanzania, Prof Ratlan Pardede, made the revelation during the 3rd Appreciation Night for Indonesia’s Business Partners held at the envoy’s residence in Dar es Salaam recently. “However, we are still not satisfied with the figures, as it does not reflect the true potentials of Indonesia and Tanzania. The two countries should promote more direct trade since most of the products are coming from third countries,” he remarked. Adding; “For that reason, Indonesia with a population of 267million people and GDP (gross domestic product), of 1.04 trillion US dollars would encourage Tanzania to embark on a new page of trade cooperation through the establishment of preferential trade agreement”. The Envoy pointed to the fact that establishment of preferential trade agreement between the two countries will open up more opportunities, stressing further that the trade agreement will also eventually reduce barriers and expose more good quality products with affordable prices. Prof Pardede further stated that under his tutelage he has managed to attract two investors from his country, one of whom will set up a soap and body lotion manufacturing factory in Dar es Salaam while the other will establish clove oil processing plant in Pemba. He stated that this year marks a new beginning of Indonesia’s significance in Tanzania through an agreement between Exim Bank of Indonesia, PT. WIKA and ZURA to construct a liquid gas terminal in Zanzibar at approximately 190 million US dollars. At the same occasion, the Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr Innocent Bashungwa, pointed that Tanzania being a predominantly agriculturebased economy, needs to link the sector with development of industries. “Our objective is to export value added products and potentials are high between the two countries. As such, we are looking forward to a win-win situation,” he stated. Mr Bashungwa urged local manufacturing and business community to partner with their Indonesian counterparts to acquire capital and technology that would spur development of industries in Tanzania. The Minister assured investors from Indonesia that the government of Tanzania has scrapped 54 nuisance taxes in a move to improve business and investment climate.