TANZANIA has launched the Ice Memory Project as glaciers on Mount Kilimanjaro are vanishing at an alarming rate, sparking off fears of their disappearance. The thrust of the Ice Memory project is to underline the importance and the urgency of preservation of the highest glaciers on the planet and to know more about the consequences of climate change. The French Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Frederic Clavier, says the project is vital for Tanzania as it will provide samples of the Kilimanjaro glaciers for analyses to uncover some of the currently missing knowledge. The project will be headed by scientific teams of Tanzania, France, Italy, Switzerland, United States and Russia; and will be implemented between the end of January and the beginning of February next year, Ambassador Clavier said at his residence. The team is expected to drill six ice cores of about 53m depth each before transporting the frozen pieces first to France at the Institute of Environmental Geosciences (IGE) and eventually to Antarctica for preservation, he explained. “One of the ice cores will be dedicated to today’s science and Tanzanian students and researchers (those at Masters and PhD levels Continued from Page 1 who will benefit on capacity building of the students, which is valuable and important because of its many longterm impacts,” the ambassador stated. The remaining ice cores will be archived for the next decades and centuries in Antarctica and will be at the disposal of scientists from all around the world for future generations once the original glacier has disappeared, he pointed out. “These evidences could help the international community to focus and prioritize their national policies to mitigate climate change,” he said. The Director of Forestry and Bee Keeping Division in the Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources, Dr Ezekiel Mwakalukwa, said that as climate change is the defining issue today, this was a great move. “It has been determined that due to climate change, the ice on mountain tops is melting. We lose with them important information that can be used to assist us to understand what was happening in the past, and what should be done today to ensure that climate change does not cause greater impact in the coming years,” he said. Mount Kilimanjaro is the only mountain in Africa with an ice top. “It is believed that once the sample is collected, it can be used to learn and reveal plenty of things of the past and create strategies to cope with climate change for the future,” he said. Mr Mwakalukwa further revealed that this was just part of the bigger project conducted under the ministry that was set to preserve the environment. “Other projects to be conducted include planting of trees, preserving the already existing trees, and bee keeping activities,” he added. The international Ice Memory project began in 2015 with the first expedition in the French Glacier in the Alps Mountains, followed by an expedition to the glacier of Bolivia in 2017 and the Glacier of Russia in 2018. The next step of this international project will focus on the last remaining African ice cores - the Kilimanjaro glacier. This project will be a win-win project built with the help of all Tanzanian stakeholders: the Ministry of natural Resources and Tourism, national agencies and universities