JKT basketball players face a big test of their skills when the world basketball body (FIBA), for Africa stages the Basketball Africa League (BAL). The league that will bring top African teams, is co-organised by F IBA Africa and NBA and will be starting with qualifying stages in October this year. Tanzania Basketball F ederation (TBF ), president, Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the introduction of the league was announced in Beijing, China recently during the World Basketball Congress that among others elected Hamane Niang from Mali as new F IBA president. Magesa said that clubs from 48 African countries will battle it out in the preliminaries stage for the six league slots. “The six best teams at the qualifying tournament, will join other six from Africa’s highly developed basketball countries like Senegal, Nigeria, Egypt, Angola, Tunisia and Morocco to form 12 team- groups that will be battle it out for the league top honour and the new league will wind up in January 2020,” said Magesa. “We have been honoured to be among the teams that will battle it out for the league places, JKT will represent Tanzania in the inaugural league,” he said. Magesa has challenged JKT to prepare well for the event as the tournament boasts many tough challengers at the qualifying stage. Meanwhile, Magesa said F IBA had insisted on development of the sport for both genders including wheelchair players from local to the international levels events. He, however, stressed that Tanzania can excel at 3x3 a-side basketball style rather than 5x5 and that they will need to invest more on the area. “If we heavily invest in 3x3 there is big chance for us to win awards from F IBA one day and to achieve that we have to develop the game from grassroots levels involving both boys and girls. It is possible to excel and win something in near future,” said Magesa. According to Magesa, F IBA has also directed its affiliate’s members to utilise the game for the community development and working close to the government to tackle challenges facing the community through basketball. Magesa added that that his trip to China also opened other opportunities, including meeting and sharing experience with leaders from other countries from Africa, Europe, Asia and USA regarding supporting Tanzania. “Among them was the former NBA star, Y ao Ming who is the current China Basketball (CBA), president,” noted.