THE patterns of weather in Tanzania are divided into three main groups, from March to May the country is dominated by heavy rains which flood stream and rivers across the country, from October to February is dominated by fresh and green vegetation in all parts of the country. The real difference is seen from June to September when the dry season unleashes all its power. All these changes make different effects in the Greater Serengeti Ecosystem where more than two million animals move from one point to another following what nature has provided to them from one season to another. Serengeti annual migration is a powerful event which captivates everyone who happens to be inside the park or watch it from a well detailed documentary film. The strength of this epic journey is almost beyond comparable because not crocodiles of Grumeti river, powerful waves of Mara river or even wildfire is able to stop it. Due to these facts, from some years ago there have been speculation across different international media platforms that Tanzania is setting up wildfire on the northern Serengeti to block the annual migration. From time to time on its side the management of TANAPA on behalf of the government has denied these misleading claims which are intended to create wrong impression of our country. All in all, different accusations and condemnations may be put towards anybody but from time in history the occurrence of wildfires are believed to have connection with super natural powers, recent studies have indicated that, these beliefs are born out of natural forces such as the Sun which play a big role to ignite a wildfire both in the grassland of Serengeti or tropical rainforest of Mount Kilimanjaro. Scientists say as an agent of nature, wildfires maintain vegetation standard of an ecosystem by burning down all unwanted, dead, dry and invasive plants, meanwhile every year in the savannah area of Serengeti, Tarangire or Ruaha national parks wildfire maintain the grasslands by destroying 70 percent of invasive trees plants which try to change the natural vegetation of the animal sanctuary. By doing this the wildfires do not only clear the savannah but also ashes which are produced from the destroyed plant are used by nature as manure to nourish the soil. Evolution has equipped plants which are found into the wildfire prone area with special ability of countering its attacks by hiding their root systems deep in the ground. History show that wildfire have been around the Earth from more than 125 million years and during that time it contributed into changes of the way plants germinate and survive. Wildfire or bushfire as it is popularly known play a key role on the savannah by removing tree and other plants which are able to survive the dry season. This enables the natural grasses of savannah to grow again immediately after rain which quench their thirsty and supply them with ashes which are full of important nutrients, the action and power of the wildfire assure enough supply of fresh, delicious and nutritious grasses to wildebeests, zebras and antelopes which arrive in southern part of Serengeti every year. On the other hand, bushfire also reduce the number of insects and small reptiles but also enable birds of prey such as secretary bird to get food as they walk behind it while picking preys who may try to escape. Scientists say without the presence of wildfire the southern part of Serengeti national park would have changed into a huge forest and block or switch the migration out of the ecosystem. Nature use the Sun to heat and drain water from dead grasses and other plants by increasing internal temperature from normal standard to more than 100 centigrade. This situation leads plants to dry and create another increase of temperature up to more than 230 centigrade which allows the ignition of fire without the presence of other agents such as kerosene or dynamites. Scientists say this is a slow process which starts from a spot where temperature is pushed up to 590 centigrade above boiling point which ignite wildfire very easy, from that point in what scientists call heat transfer. The first elements of bushfire may start fire and increase temperature of the surrounding area to 800 centigrade which bears powerful flames. That is a delicate situation whereby in any savannah grassland because wildfire from nothing wildfire is able to gain a deadly speed of up to 10.8 kilometers per hour while destroying almost everything on its way. The destructive strength of wildfire may be enabled by geographical factors such as wind which supply enough oxygen which facilitate the burning process to attain a deadly speed of 22 kilometers per hour. From time in history to date this is what has been shocking people whenever a wildfire breakout within their neighborhoods, although human activities may contribute into igniting a wildfire but other natural forces such as lightning and volcanoes are known to have an upper hand on causing this calamity in savannah. Scientists say three elements are required for a wildfire to breakout, these are oxygen, heat and plants that bear fruits or seeds which contain oil substance. Scientists say plants with oil enriched underground roots are known to transfer fire from one bush to another but dry leaves and grass put additional strength to a wildfire which could stop without their presence. Despite all accusation and speculation, in East Africa natural forces are responsible for wildfire in national with longer dry season which favors the presence of savannah vegetation, due to this fact during dry season national parks such as Tarangire, Ruaha and Serengeti are prone to attacks from wildfire more than Kilimanjaro or Udzungwa which are characterized with tropical forests, at this point climate is major factor because during rainy season it enables grasses to grow massively in the plains of Serengeti but from July things change as the dry season start to bite. Every year from the month August nature start to turn plains of Serengeti into fire prone area by drying down almost all grasses within the ecosystem, to deal with this harsh condition nature has enabled wildebeest, zebra, antelopes and other herbivorous special appetite of eating dry grasses but whenever the situation is unbearable the migration is an ultimate solution. From June to September before the short rains of October, temperature may rise above 27 centigrade during daytime due to a clear sky which allows sun-rays to heat the ground with all their energies. During this hot season most animals involved in the migration spend their time in Grumeti and Ikorongo game reserves which are found on the northern side of Serengeti national park. In a movement of a clock arm which follows rain patterns, every year a resilient contingent of more than 1.8 million animals shifts from one part to another in the greater Serengeti ecosystem. As they cross cross hills and plains their hooves beat the ground and break rocks which hit each other and strike the first ignition for a full bushfire in a year. hem in water before eating. rstanslaus@yahoo.com