TANZANIA Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) aims at increasing its members from 22,000 to 30,000 in the next five years. The chamber’s newly elected President, Mr Paul Koyi, speaking in Dar es Salaam over the weekend during the office handover ceremony, said he is determined to ensure that every trader in the country registers with any commerce body. Mr Koyi was elected recently to fill in the post left by Ndibalema Mayanja who died last year. He hinted that being a member of any chamber will give traders a room to easily grab business opportunities within and outside the country. “We target registering as many members as possible. Geographically, Tanzania is strategically positioned and share border with many countries, we have to utilize this by strengthening business relations with our neighbours,” he said. He added; “We want to improve business environment for every trader. But above all, it should be understood that it is easy to speak and act as a group that is why it is my priority to liaise with the government to encourage businesspeople to join business chambers.” Mr Koyi further noted that the chamber also eyes holding talks with the government to see the possibility of engaging the neighbouring countries to remove unnecessary barriers which the businesspeople are facing. He said, for example, there is a good maize market in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) but Tanzanian traders are failing to exploit the opportunity due to difficulty in acquiring trading permits. “Therefore our government and the neighbouring nations should sit down and see how to handle such issues. Our products are needed almost everywhere in African countries, but there are lots of barriers,” stressed Mr Koyi. He noted that, in collaboration with other officials in the chamber, he is determined to step up strategic and institutional reforms geared at improving the performance of its members and subsequently contribute to the country’s industrialization drive. On his part, TCCIA Vice president Mr Joseph Kahungwa stressed on the importance of business strengthening business at borders, affirming that the neighbouring countries are really in need of Tanzanian products. Apart from food crops, the countries are also in need of other products like building materials, including roofing tiles produced in Tanzania. “The Chamber participated in the Kagera Investment Forum held mid last month, from the forum we learnt that our neighbours--Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, South Sudan and DRC need a lot of products from Tanzania,” he noted, adding that what is needed is just improving trading environment. The Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) was established in 1988. It was initiated with the support of the Tanzanian Government to strengthen the private sector. The establishment of the TCCIA was an important step in moving on from a centralized, planned economy towards a more open, mixed economy giving full scope to privately owned enterprises and farms.