IN traditional Tarime District, it has not been easy for a woman to vie for a political post. Women have been treated as second class citizens. However, this practice is gradually dying and a few women  have won political posts in their locations, thanks to Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP), for helping to bring change. Ms Suzana Samuel has never dreamed of taking a leadership position in her male dominated community.  Indeed no one would support such an idea. But things have since changed and Suzana is now the chairperson of Nyansisine sub-village in one of the remote areas of Tarime District in Mara Region. She contested for the post in 2015 Local Government Election  after attending what she described as  inspirational training conducted by TGNP in her home village. “It is the training that I got from TGNP in 2014 which encouraged me to contest in 2015. I defeated my opponents who were men. I was the only woman in the race,” Ms Suzana  told the ‘Daily News’ in Tarime last week. In  the 2015 general elections,  Ms Esther Matiko made  history after she won the parliamentary  seat for Tarime Urban constituency. Ms Esther had defeated several male candidates who vied for the post in the area. “After emerging the winners our biggest task was to fulfill what we had pledged so that voters could see the difference between a man and woman’s leadership,” said Ms Tecla Johannes, a special seat councillor in Tarime town council. Ms Tecla said she is one of those who encouraged Ms Esther to vie for the Parliament and she has since then been happy to work with the MP together. “Besides Esther, I also convinced the current councillor for Nyakonga ward in Tarime District council to enter the race. What we need to do is only to let the citizens trust us that we can lead them better than even men, “Ms Tecla, one of the popular female politicians in the district said. Ms Suzana says she is also planning to seek re-election in the coming civic elections scheduled for November this year. She is confident of  wining the seat for the second time. “I will contest again and I have big support following the achievements that my sub-village has registered during my leadership”, she said. She named the immense contribution that she made for construction of a community secondary in the area one of her greatest achievements. “We are building a new secondary school at Nyasisine sub-village and my people have shown unity in the construction work by donating materials and cash money. We have not used force or harassment, we have a different approach from the previous leaders, ” she said. However, Suzana admits that all has not been well, adding that  she went through a difficult situation during the first days of her leadership. “Some people, especially men used abusive language against me believing  that I would not manage to stand firm, but I have proved them wrong and they now respect me,  “Ms Suzana a mother of several children said. Ms Suzana said she is also getting support from her husband. Traditional beliefs are still one of the obstacles hampering women in Tarime and other parts of Mara Region to vie for political posts. TGNP has continued to advocate for women’s participation in political posts and leadership in Tarime, by involving key various stakeholders including traditional leaders. Last week, the organisation (TGNP), conducted a three-day workshop that brought together about 35 stakeholders to discuss obstacles preventing women from contesting for political posts in the area. Dr Consolata Sulley, a lecturer from  the department of Political science and Public administration at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), said Tarime is one of the areas that still requires deliberate efforts to make women become active in politics. The latest workshop, Dr Sulley said was part of such efforts. "The aim of the workshop was to increase participation of Tarime women in politics and leadership", Dr Sulley said at the sidelines of the training. "We have told them (participants), to bury the old misconception that women’s job is to work in the kitchen", she added. The work shop took place at the time when Tanzania prepares to hold civic elections later this year to be followed by the general election  next year. The participants included traditional and religious leaders, representatives from non-governmental organizations, councillors and village chairpersons. Suzana and Tecla were among of them.But Ms Tecla also said women do not like their colleagues to win political posts. “There are many women voters but we (women), do not give them support. This reminds us of the major problems that we are facing, ” she said during the workshop. The participants cited traditional beliefs as a major challenge facing Tarime women from becoming active in politics.The traditional elders welcomed the training workshop promising to support  the TGNP initiative. “I have agreed that the training was 100  percent perfect  and we are now going to announce that  women should go out and contest  from  low to high  levels”, Mzee Athanas Chacha, a traditional elder in Tarime said. “Whether she has undergone Female Genital Mutilation (FGM),  or not she should be supported to contest “, the traditional elder insisted. Dr Sulley enlightened them on the fundamental rights of women according to the constitution and international and regional treaties which Tanzania has ratified. She said some of the treaties, including the Beijing Declaration were developed to deliberately uplift the status of women across the globe. Tanzania is one of the African countries with large number of women holding political posts. “Tanzania is not lagging behind but if it happens that special seats for councillor and parliamentary seats are abolished we will be finished, " Dr Sulley said. She said the workshop hosted by TGNP in Tarime is expected to produce new elected women leaders. “We believe that the participants will spread the education they got when they return to their areas. For example, the voices of traditional and religious leaders can be very helpful in ending traditions which are obstacles", she said.