THE Gaming Board has been given mandate to forfeit illegal gaming devices as part of amendments to tighten control in the lucrative gaming activities. The amendments are contained in the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No.6) of 2019 approved in Parliament yesterday. The Bill proposed to amend nine laws, namely the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority Act, (Cap. 414), the Ferries Act (Cap. 173), the Gaming Act, (Cap. 41), and the Interpretation of Laws Act, (Cap. 1). Others are the Merchant Shipping Act, (Cap. 165), the Penal Code, (Cap. 16), the Public Service Act, (Cap. 298), the Social Security (Regulatory Authority) Act, (Cap. 135) and the Value Added Tax Act, (Cap. 148). Under the amendments, which now await presidential consent, the board will now control advertisements related to gaming activities. Gaming Act, (Cap. 41) Section 7 of the Act has been amended to empower the Board to handle complaints arising from gaming activities, and a new section is introduced to give the Board powers to conduct inspections, seizure, and forfeiture of illegal gaming devices. Section 13 of the Act is amended in order to restrict the operation of gaming consultancy except with a valid licence. There are also amendments in Section 18a to provide for requirements for deposit of performance bond as a prerequisite for licensing and certification of an operator of gaming activities. Section 67 is amended to make provisions for better reporting of gaming activities and performance audit by the Controller and Auditor General so as to ensure accountability in gaming activities. New Section 86A has been proposed to be added to the act to empower the Board to regulate all advertisements relating to gaming activities. Under the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority Act, (Cap. 414) the amendments introduce in the nomination committee permanent secretaries of sector ministries, accommodate sector ministers in various mandates already vested in the minister responsible for the authority to enhance oversight role of sector ministers on matters which are regulated by the Authority. The amendments on EWURA act are also aimed at providing mechanism for compounding offences so as to avoid protracted prosecutions in order to save time and costs. Amendments in the Social Security (Regulatory Authority) Act, Cap. 135 are aimed to transfer the supervisory responsibility of social security sector to the ministry responsible for social security. Section 4 that establishes the Social Security Regulatory Authority is proposed to be repealed in order to disestablish the authority and confer the Ministry responsible for social security with powers to supervise the social security sector. Amendment seeks to make the act apply to government and private owned ferries when used for commercial services including the carriage of paying passengers. The Act is further proposed to be amended to broaden the scope and responsibilities of the Authority to cover not only maritime safety but also prevention of pollution from ships which is in line with the functions of a maritime authority. Value Added Tax Act has been amended to enable the Minister for Finance to grant value added tax exemption by a notice in the government Gazette on raw materials used to manufacture long lasting mosquito nets and on goods and services used in government projects, special loans and on imports of goods and services to be used during natural disasters.