TANZANIA has asked Uganda to resolve tax disputes and fast-track construction of the proposed East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP), a vital economic undertaking with enormous benefits. President John Magufuli yesterday used the Tanzania- Uganda Business Forum to publicly raise concern over delays in the implementation of the project, blaming the unfortunate development on bureaucracy on the part of the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA). The two-day joint forum kick-started in Dar es Salaam yesterday and was graced by President Magufuli and his Ugandan counterpart, Yoweri Museveni. “For us Tanzania, we had to sacrifice some of the matters. We had to table in Parliament a proposal on law amendments... and today, I have asked Mzee Museveni why delaying construction of the pipeline over tax of only USD 600, while you are going to make USD 80 billion out of the project. You have to sacrifice that little amount in order to create employment and earn more money in the future,” President Magufuli revealed what transpired in his talks with his Ugandan counterpart. Dr Magufuli told President Museveni not to allow URA to delay the Hoima-Tanga oil pipeline project which they both launched two years ago. “The Uganda Revenue Authority should not pull you back. We wanted this pipeline to be named Kaguta Oil Pipeline...I don’t mean to teach Mzee Museveni, but in three years of my leadership I have changed five Commissioner- Generals. I asked Mzee why he continues to keep the one at URA...I had to say this because it pains me. Why do we get delayed by bureaucratic executives?” he said. He went on to say that when this pipeline starts operating it will bring with it a lot of economic benefits and Uganda will be among the leading economies in Africa due to revenues collected from the pipeline. Dr Magufuli argued that the governments should act like how business people do, by taking risks. “We, the governments should also be risk takers to implement projects that will facilitate trade in our countries,” he said. Speaking on the matter, President Museveni said the issue of oil is under the control of the government of Uganda and collaborates with the government of Tanzania on the pipeline. “I am very grateful to President Magufuli for the formula and concession he made... and let me say that this is something that the government of Uganda would not be found wanting,” President Museveni remarked. It was reported that last Friday, French oil giant Total E&P, the lead developer on EACOP, announced to “decommission” both activities and staff on the project. The firm cited “uncertain business” environment in Uganda following a collapse last week of a deal for Tullow Oil Company to sell its stakes to Total and China National Offshore Oil Company (CNOOC), technically referred to as a farm down.