A REMOTE village in Chamwino District, Dodoma Region is now enjoying regular reliable access to water for irrigation and livestock after months of sustained campaigns for environmental conservation, including the construction of a sand-dam. Residents of Manda village had received a financial boost from the Tanzania Social Action Fund (Tasaf) and built Ukalanzala sand dam, an alternative system to also harvest rainwater and liberated dozens of families from water and food scarcity. One of the beneficiaries, Ester Ibrahim, said the construction of the facility had empowered especially women in their vegetable farming through increasing their incomes. Sand dams are the most recommended means of providing water for communities in semiarid areas such as Chamwino District as they transform the surrounding environment by storing water in sand, thereby raising its upstream and downstream levels. “Unlike previously, we had issues with accessing water…construction of a wall around the dam helps to store water even during the dry season,” notes Ms. Ibrahim. She says families in the village have access to water for both domestic uses, agricultural and livestock purposes. Ms Ibrahim, a widow with three children, points out that the dam has been a life-saver allowing her to take care of herself and the family through income generated from various activities such as vegetable farming. “I am able to take my children to school and soon I will start building a house at my recently acquired plot,” she said. Another villager, Ms Elizabeth Mpanda, explained that the project had guaranteed the people of constant supply of water, which vastly contrasts with the situation in the past when women and children spent several hours on water- searching missions. Tasaf’s Dodoma Region Monitoring Officer, Julius Daud told reporters that Manda was one of 50 villages in the district that benefits from Tasaf-sponsored projects. There are at least 328 residents but only 287 took part in the modernisation of the village-initiated project. Work on the Ukalanzala dam started during the 2016/17 financial year targeting to prevent water leakage and improve storage. At least 41.12m/- was spent in the construction work that included paying workers. “Other than the wall, works on the dam also involved adjusting the depth now having the capacity to store up to 15,516 million cubic meters. “The dam is capable of servicing the entire village and neighbouring ones,” said Shabani Mpwepwe, the project manager. He said the dam had been a source of improved nutrition in the village.