TAIFA Stars striker Shaaban Chilunda said the team’s interim coach Etienne Ndayiragije is giving them necessary tactics to derail Burundi on Wednesday. Taifa Stars head to Burundian Bujumbura for the 2022 World Cup Q atar qualifiers first leg match against hosts Burundi on Wednesday, before hosting them at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam a week later. The country’s flag bearers have lately intensified preparations at Uhuru Stadium in the city as one way to be in a positive mood before heading to the battle zone. However, speaking recently here, Chilunda insisted that despite the coach being Burundian, he has already given them tricks on how to capsize them (Burundi) since he knows well the team. “He knows some techniques that Burundi uses and we are all currently working on them. To say the truth, we are responding well to whatever the coaches are feeding us and we expect nothing less than victory in Burundi,” he said. He then called Tanzanians to be with them in both legs as they want to make remarkable history to feature in world cup contest. In his words, the team’s goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya said he is learning many things from his experienced teammate Juma Kaseja who has also been included in the strong squad readying for Burundi clash. “I have good working relationship with him (Kaseja) because he has been in the industry for a long time and there are some things I am grasping from his abilities. He is always ready to teach me what I do not know,” he said. Moreover, Kakolanya, the former Young Africans goalkeeper revealed that morale in the squad is high such that it is expected to double when all foreign based players join the camp. Ever since he joined Simba SC this season, kakolanya has been doing great and he played in three games for the reigning champions against Power Dynamos from Zambia in a friendly match, UD Songo in CAF Champions League and Azam in the Community Shield match. Coach Ndayiragije will need to select his preferred number one for the Burundi tie among the three goalkeepers; kakolanya, Kaseja and Metacha Mnata. The 30-member Stars squad comprises of the following players: Goalkeepers Beno Kakolanya, Juma Kaseja and Metacha Mnata. Defenders: Shomari Kapombe, Hassan Kessy, Gadiel Michael, Mohammed Hussein, Boniface Maganga, Kelvin Yondani, Idd Mobby, Erasto Nyoni and Abdi Banda. Midfielders: Jonas Mkude, Baraka Majogoro, Himid Mao, Ally Ng’anzi, Abubakar Salum, Frank Domayo, Abdulazizi Makame, Hassan Dilunga and Mohammed Banka. Strikers: Simon Msuva, Eliuter Mpepo, Mbwana Samatta, Adi Yusuph, Farid Mussa, Idd Seleman ‘Nado’, Kelvin John, Ayoub Lyanga and Shaaban Idd Chilunda.