TANZANIA Basketball Federation (TBF) is gearing up to host this year FIBA Zone V Basketball Club Championship for women. The annual competition that is scheduled to start at the National Indoor Stadium in Dar es Salaam from October 21-26th this year, return in the country for the second consecutive year. TBF president Phares Magesa told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations are going on well for federation to stage the region tournament. Magesa said that this time around the competition will involve only women teams because men are set for a newly introduced league. He said that 11 women teams from hosts Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Egypt, Somalia and Ethiopia have already confirmed their participation at the forthcoming competition. Magesa named confirmed teams and countries they come from as JKT Stars, Don Bosco Lioness from hosts Tanzania, Equity and KPA (Kenya), APR and Hoops (Rwanda), Mogadishu City (Somalia), Ethowater and Wokite City (Ethiopia), JKL (Uganda) and Les Gazelles of Burundi. He said that they still wait confirmation from Egypt, Eritrea, South Sudan and Sudan. However, he was pleased with the increasing number of the teams that have confirmed to compete at this year’s event, compared to seven at the same competition last year. Magesa said TBF is honoured to host the event again, but insisted that his federation needs support from sponsors, government, companies and sports wellwishers to make it a success. He also challenged local teams to prepare well and be ready for stiff challenge ahead of them. “We would like to see the title remain in Tanzania this time around, we know it is not that easy task but with hard work and efforts everything possible.” He said. According to Magesa men category has been omitted from this year’s edition because FIBA has introduced new league for men teams called Basketball Africa League (BAL). He said clubs from 48 African countries include JKT of Tanzania will battle it out in the preliminaries stage for the six league slots. JKT Tanzania is placed in group 6 that features also teams from Malawi, Zambia, Mozambique, Burundi and Namibia. The league set to start next month will see two teams from each group qualify for later stage of the league that will wind up in January 2020.