LOCAL government elections scheduled for later this year cannot be supervised by the National Electoral Commission because it is not among its responsibilities. Mwita Waitara, the Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-RALG), said in Parliament yesterday that the local government elections will be supervised under the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), as provided for by the laws of the land. He was responding to a question by John Mnyika (Kibamba, Chadema), who wanted to know why the local government elections should not be supervised under the National Electoral Commission (NEC), instead of the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government). The Kibamba legislator also wanted to know why the government was not implementing agreements by political parties of 2014 to use the voter register in the local government elections. The Deputy Minister said NEC responsibilities include supervision of the conduct of the presidential and parliamentary elections and perform other duties according to the law. He said supervision of local government elections is not among responsibilities of the National Electoral Commission, according to the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania. Supervision of the local government election is the responsibility of the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), he said. Waitara further said so long as the National Electoral Commission (NEC), has no mandate to supervise local government elections, the local government elections will not use NEC’s voter register. He said agreements reached by political parties should conform to the laws of the land. To make sure the local government elections were free and fair, the government has prepared regulations and guidelines which were formed from views of different stakeholders, including political parties and civil societies.