MINISTER for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe has requested organisers to consider staging the East African Community (EAC), Arts and Cultural extravaganza annually. The 4th edition of the event, dubbed Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival (JAMAFEST), opened at the National and Uhuru Stadia in Dar es Salaam last Saturday and will reach its climax today. Mwakyembe issued the request during a dinner party held at Serena Hotel in Dar es Salaam in honor of JAMAFEST participants. Currently the festival is held biennially and hosted by member states rotationally but Mwekyembe feels it is important now to consider staging it annually. “The impact JAMAFEST brings to people of EAC is huge…it helps to strengthen the integration. I believe the organisers will see the reason to stage it annually,” he stated. JAMAFEST is aiming to promote regional socio-cultural integration through arts and culture by providing a platform to showcase culture as a primary driver of regional integration. Mwakyembe said that he was pleased to see a good number of students turning up for the festival and most of them were art and traditional dance performances that are going on at the venue, saying it will bring positive impact for them to trace and embrace their culture. “We have demonstrated to the world that we are a live region, we have our own traditions that we are proud of and dearly cherish,” he said. He commended and applauded all nations that participated in JAMAFEST 2019, “It has been a great festival.The festival has further strengthened the unity amongst the EAC, and has revived and showcased some of our traditions, which would have disappeared.” The Minister commended efforts made by each member state participating in the festival, saying that they have displayed great talent, ability and the beauty of their traditions. “I am also pleased that some of us will leave the country after the eight days more fluent in Kiswahili as once you are in Dar es Salaam one must speak the language.” “Africans should write our own history and set our own records, like what we have done with JAMAFEST,” he said. One of the Burundian Minister, Kanene Jean-Claud commended Tanzania on behalf of all the guests who participated at 2019 JAMAFEST. “I don’t know what to say, as I am so happy and pleased on how things are prepared and going on at this 4th edition of the festival. On behalf of all present ‘tunasema asante sana,” with gratitude he commented. Adding that, “We have been received gracefully, well entertained, and we are very grateful to Tanzania…this is a lovely country,” he said. In another event that took place yesterday, the Deputy Minister for Energy, Subira Mgalu who visited the festival also declared her interest on the festival to be conducted once every year. “The festival is a blessing to our nations, I wish it was staged annually in the same rotation basis,” she stated.