THE Minister for Minerals, Dotto Biteko has called upon Geita Gold Mine to closely work with the surrounding communities by creating more business opportunities for them. He made the call on Monday while opening the Geita Business Forum which focuses on investment potentials in the region and how they can be explored to benefit the local population. He commended the company for emerging the best tax payer among other mining investors as well as best Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Plans implementer, but said that was not enough. “Yes you are the best tax payer with the best CSR plan, but you should go further by making sure you create wealthier local players for sustainable partnership, security and eco- nomic impact,” he said. The Minister said he was of the view that the local community must feel they were part of the gold mine ownership, for they can actively take care of the company’s interests and investments. Anglo G old Ashanti Chief Operating Officer, Sicelo Ntuli who also attended the Forum said GGM intends to extend such forums beyond Geita Region so as to include other jurisdictions in the country and provide more opportunities for other suppliers at national level. His sentiments were echoed by the GGM Managing Director, Mr Richard Jordinson, who disclosed that the company will establish a sustainable local procurement programme to stimulate economic and social development. He said the approval of 9.2bn/- CSR Plan for 2019/2020 will see the implementation of various projects through transparent purchase of competitive goods and services from local sources as per local content guidelines. “We are happy to see an increasing number of local suppliers that are willing to follow procedures and do busi- ness with us,” he said. According to him, the Geita Business Forum this year has been held timely since it will equip suppliers with information that will make them more competitive for upcoming tenders associated with the execution of CSR plan. It was revealed that in 2018 GGM local suppliers’ network increased to 305 with 76 percent of the total procurement being spent locally.