SIHA District Commissioner (DC), Mr Onesmo Buswelu, has warned herders against taking their livestock in areas surrounding different institutions such as schools. DC Buswelu gave the directive during an occasion to inaugurate two classrooms and a teachers’ office and welcoming the new form five students at Nuru Secondary School situated at Makiwaru ward. Responding to the plea made by the Chairman of the Nuru Secondary School Board, Mr William Mollel concerning the issue, the DC said it was not fair for herders to allow their cattle to invade such areas, because by doing so they interfere with the daily activities of the areas. “I call upon all herders to keep off these areas or face charges as per the regulations which are very clear and which are found at the district council’s office,” he warned. Mr Buswelu said the government in the district was very impressed by the efforts which were shown by the school board and other stakeholders in constructing the two classes and the teachers’ office, a move which he said will help reduce overcrowding in classes. Chairman Mollel urged the government to intervene and ask the herders to stop letting their cattle graze in the areas which he said destroyed the school’s environment by eating trees and other plants planted around the school area. “Lack of a reliable fencing infrastructure to surround the school is a big challenge, because herders have been letting their cattle come and feed on plants within the school compound, something which confuses teachers and students alike during class, rest hours and during other activities as par the school’s program,” he said. The School Headmaster, Mr Alexander Kimaro said the new classrooms will help curb the shortage of classes at the school that he said has 985 students. “During the construction of these classes and the office, some members of the community donated 80 desks worth 6m/-, doors, windows, ceiling boards and putting up the water infrastructures,” he said. The Makiwaru Ward Chairman, Mr Godson Ngomuo, promised to fund the renovation of two old classrooms to avoid the high costs of doing so in the future. “As we all see, some of the infrastructure of this school buildings have started to wear out, it is high time we start renovating them now or else the costs of doing so will be very high in the near future; to start with, I will fund the renovation of two classrooms,” said Mr Ngomuo who doubles as the Siha District Council Chairman.