AN intense increase in Tanzania involvement in trade nationally and regionally is concurring in the same way with sharp decline in extreme poverty worldwide. Tanzania, going by Bank of Tanzania monthly economic reviews analyses, constitutes noteworthy percentage of export trade that is decreasing number of people living in poverty. Devoid of question, trade is helping to increase the number and quality of jobs in Tanzania, stimulates economic growth and importantly drives productivity within productive sectors. However, for Tanzania to sustain and to remain steady to achieve on one hand reducing poverty and enhancing shared success amongst Tanzanians, the paybacks of trade must be extended to every segment of Tanzanian general public especially those at low income bracket. In my view, this in turn, entails a rigorous effort by all ministries or government reasonably, working with the private sector and government to create and implementing a wide-ranging array of strategies, packages, and financial intercessions that will reduce the costs of trade and create a more crystal clear and predictable setting for entry into national, regional and global export businesses. Within this setting, SMEs backed businesses face numerous constraints that limit their capacity to contribute and benefit from wider economic gains. In this situation, trade integration is significant not only because of the boost to growth it can provide, however because there is room for it to be executed in ways that more effectively overcome the constraints faced by these firms. Thus is why, in many nations, as well as Tanzania, economic development acumen is shifting from minimizing imports to encouraging exports as the path to prosperity. Individual nations in the SADC and even EAC region, in the past, have had little success under either approach-the result being stationary economies, misused, and many especially being deprived of quality job opportunities, particularly among young people. Perhaps now is the time for SADC and for those matter EAC nations to trail a different conduit and focus on harnessing the power of their collective domestic demand to foster economic development. This might be a tall order, but where there is a will, there is a way. It is worth recalling that the import-substitution strategy, which grew popularity in the middle of the last era, encouraged substituting imports with domestic manufacturing to foster industrialization. That thinking which gave a central role to the state by stressing state-owned enterprises, high tariffs, and import licenses progressively fell into degradation during the debt crises near the end of the last century. As an alternative, the export-driven success drawn from economies such as of Asian economies involving of the 4 known economic tigers made encouraging exports turn out to be the centre piece of development strategies. When examined, steady success was grounded in the belief that exposure to regional and global competition and the transfer of technology from FDIs would have a catalytic consequence on domestic manufacturing, trade and businesses. Export-oriented strategies then grew from promoting trade in funding of domestic industries to turning emerging countries into platforms in the value chains of multinational businesses. In the realm of international trading when examined critically, nations in economic bloc such as SADC etc. have had little success with exportled development strategies. Why? In my opinion, and conceivably numerous would agree, the practicality of the limited export-oriented ideal is more and more being examined as global trade tensions i.e. for example between USA and China, Japan and Vietnam, excessive protectionism, and the fear of an impact of Brexit intensify that might affect trading and commercial engagements across nations. For SADC member a state, harnessing the control of their regional domestic market through serious intra-trade is what is needed to help these nations change from directed to market oriented economies. Unquestionably, to attain economic development trajectory that minimizes imports to encouraging exports will involve a mind-set shift for nations that have always favoured to go-it-alone-the region is least integrated in the world, despite the potential gains from removing barriers to the flow of goods and services within these economic region blocs. Individually most of these nationals are relatively small markets. But collected and under one voice, the region has huge market potential about twice as many as Western Europe. What is more, while Europe’s population growth as quoted in the media is assumed to be virtually stagnant, the population in the SADC region is expected to nearly double by 2050. It is important to think the growing numbers of young people, who embrace the widely held of the population, are indirectly shivering up the status quo as this population segment at least from an economic point of view search for political and economic change and increased quality engagement prospects, much as passion for digitalization influenced opportunities among both young people and leaders provides some sparkle of optimism. I do still have faith, that excellence services, mindset change, right marketable skills and enhancement in the efficiency of the informal sector, if given courtesy it merit timely, could become a new engine for growth and trade in services that could be a national or regional driver of prosperity-provided SADC nations do more in a regionally integrated manner to build the bases for digital payments systems, institute right incentives to make users comply and competent cost internet access. There is too hope nations such as Rwanda, Burundi, Southern Sudan and Uganda that aren’t member of SADC could more closely fit in with their neighbours in SADC economic bloc in such sectors as investment, agroindustry, insurance, energy, and communications. The demography in this market is a source of unexpressed demand mainly for agroindustry, agriculture businesses and other goods and services that could help increase domestic manufacturing and trade integration within the region. This handier trade integration within SADC will, I believe balance many ingenuities in the African continent including the latest one to date that is pushing for the Continent Free Trade Area. To get to the bottom of national and regional integration, the wall of assigned interests in SADC regional bloc must be torn down i.e. poor logistics and lack of well-organized cross-border payment systems. If asked, in practice, the tear down could interpret to designing of governing supervisory body to champion competition and report to head of states. Give a free rein to regional demand accompanied by arm’s length regulation that nurtures private sector growth and competition and fights anti-competitive applies could inhibit the perpetuation of the prevailing few who frequently seize control of liberalization attempts, with the unfortunate result that the idea of reform is destroyed among the voters.