DAR ES SALAAM Water and Sewerage Authority (Dawasa), plans to implement a big water project at Rufiji River to add more water to the water source and meet the demand created by the mushrooming of industries in Coast Region. The water project will be implemented alongside the ongoing Nyerere Hydropower Project, which the government implements through Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco). Dawasa Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Cyprian Luhemeja said the project was planned to start in July next year and would completed in three years. He said the utility would spend 200bn/-of its domestic revenue on the construction of the project. Rufiji River will be supplementing other water sources of Lower and Upper Ruvu in Coast Region. He was speaking ahead of the industrial exhibition and business symposium scheduled for next month in Coast Region. The two events are organised by the Coast Regional Commissioner’s Office, Tanzania Standard (Newspapers), Ltd and the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (Tan- Trade). The forthcoming events are expected to boost investments in the region, thus Dawasa was explaining how it was prepared to ensure the industries were supplied with enough water for production and other activities. He said Dawasa had decided to choose Rufiji River because water demand was increasing in relation to the number of sources of water. This comes as a proposal from the Coast Region to Dawasa to consider Rufiji as another source of water. “We have decided to consider this proposal after seeing that we will be implementing alongside the hydropower project, which is being implemented,” he said. He noted that Dawasa had already formed a committee to begin a process to kick start the project, but it would await endorsement from the Dawasa’s board of directors. “We have contacted our stakeholders, including Tanesco, which is the custodian of the dam... we will present the matter to the board of directors to get blessings and permission before embarking on a feasibility study and start the work,” he elaborated.