VICTORIES over Kenya and Burundi heightened Tanzania by two positions in the latest World rankings released yesterday by FIFA. Tanzania scaled to 135th position globally from 137th they held previously. The country accumulated 1083 points from 1075 points they accumulated previously. Tanzania is placed 38th in the continent and fifth in CECAFA zone. In their recent campaigns, Taifa Stars beat Kenya’s Harambee Stars in 2020 African Nations Champions (CHAN) qualifiers. Taifa Stars eliminated Harambee Stars from CHAN qualifiers on 4-1 penalties after a barren draw on aggregate in a two-legged match of the first round campaign to book a place in a group stage. Etienne Ndayiragije charges went ahead to dismiss Burundi’s Intamba Murugamba in the qualifiers for FIFA World Cup finals set for Q atar in 2022. They won 3-0 on penalties following a 2-2 aggregate draw. After posting a 1-1 draw in the first away in Bujumbura, the second tie also ended in the same score at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. On Sunday, Taifa Stars will face Sudan in second round of the CHAN qualifiers at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and victory over the Sudanese will see Stars qualifying for the second time in history for CHAN finals set to be held in Cameroon next year. Taifa Stars qualified for the inaugural finals held in Ivory Coast in 2009. Uganda is ranked 80 globally after accumulating 1305 points the same they collected previously. Uganda Cranes remains the highest ranked team from CECAFA zone and 16th in Africa, followed by Kenya in the 107th place in the world and 25th in the continent. Kenya accumulated 1201 points, the same figure they had registered in previous rankings. Sudan, who are the next opponents of Taifa Stars in CHAN qualifiers are placed 128th in world rankings, going up by one position. Sudan is 35 in Africa and third in CECAFA zone, while Rwanda are positioned 130th in the world after scaling by three positions, 36th in the continent and fourth in CECAFA zone. Burundi is settled in the 144th position in the world, going up four steps from the previous listing. Elsewhere, Senegal remain the highest ranked African team according to FIFA, with the 2019 AFCON runners-up currently at 20th position, while AFCON winners, Algeria look to catch up at 38th position and placed fourth in the continent. Tunisia is second in Africa, nine places below Senegal in the world rankings. After finishing third in AFCON, Nigeria is ranked 3rd in Africa and 34th position globally. The top 10 in Africa is rounded out by Egypt (49), Ghana (51), Cameroon (53), the Democratic Republic of Congo (55) and Ivory Coast (56). Globally, Belgium has retained their crown of being the top-ranked team in the world, while World champions France come second followed by Brazil, England and Portugal to complete the top five. The biggest gainers in the rankings are Grenada, who moved up 13 places, while Nicaragua dropped 11 places to settle in the 148th position. Other biggest movers in the latest listing was tiny Djibouti (186th, up nine place), who recently overcame Eswatini (150th, down 11 places) over two legs to advance to the second round of African World Cup qualifying for just the second time. The next edition of the rankings will be released on