THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday found the National Chairman with Chadema Freeman Mbowe and eight other senior officials with a case to answer on all sedition charges they are facing. Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba ruled that having produced eight witnesses, the prosecution sufficiently es tablished a prima facie case requiring all the accused persons to give their defence evidence against the criminal charges. Following the decision, the magistrate ordered Mbowe and his co-senior officials with the opposition party to start presenting their defence evidence on September 17, 2019. The defence hearing, according to the magistrate, will be held three days consecutively. A prima facie case is the establishment of a legally required rebuttable presumption. A prima facie case is also a cause of action or defence that is sufficiently established by a party’s evidence to justify a verdict in his or her favour, provided such evidence is not rebutted by the other party. The term prima facie is used in modern legal English to signify that upon initial examination, sufficient corroborating evidence appears to exist to support a case. In common law jurisdictions, prima facie denotes evidence that, unless rebutted, would be sufficient to prove a particular proposition or fact. When the prosecution, which bears the evidential burden of proof in a criminal case, concludes its submission or presentation of evidence, the State’s case is said to be prima facie if the evidence presented is sufficient for a conviction. O therwise, the defence, which bears the persuasive burden of proof, will be able to submit that there is no case to answer and if the court concurs, the case will be dismissed. During presentation of the evidence, the prosecution was led by a team of State lawyers comprising Principal State Attorneys Faraja Nchimbi, Paul Kadushi and Zainabu Mango, Senior State Attorneys Wankyo Simon and State Attorneys Jacqueline Nyantori and Salim Msemo. Apart from Mbowe, other senior party officials facing the trial are the party’s Secretary General V icent Mashinji , John Mnyika, the Deputy Secretary General (Mainland) and Salum Mwalimu, who is Deputy Secretary General (Z anzibar). Others are Peter Msigwa Member of Parliament for Iringa U rban, Halima Mdee, the MP for Kawe, John Heche, the MP for Tarime Rural and Ester Bulaya, who is MP for Bunda U rban as well as the MP for Tarime U rban, Ester Matiko. They are charged with 11 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, unlawful assembly, rioting after proclamation, raising discontent and ill-will for unlawful purposes, sedition and inciting commission of offences. The charges are alleged to have been committed between February 1 and 16, 2018 in the city. The prosecution alleges that on February 16, 2018 along Kawawa Road at Mkwajuni area, being assembled with intent to carry out a common purpose, jointly and together, all accused persons conducted themselves in such a manner as to cause a fear of breach of peace. It is claimed further that on the same day and place, with more than 12 other persons not in court, having riotously assembled, in disobedience of proclamation given by a police officer, the accused persons failed to disperse and continued to take part in the riot. Thereby, according to the prosecution, the accused persons breached the peace and terrified the public, culminating in the death of National Institute of Transport (NIT) Student, Akwilina Akwiline Baftaa, and injury of two police officers, Police Constable Fikiri and Corporal Rahim Msangi. According to the prosecution, on the same day at Buibui grounds, while addressing Kinondoni residents at the public meeting, Mbowe, Mdee and Heche uttered statements likely to raise discontent and promote feelings of ill-will amongst the inhabitants of the United Republic of Tanzania. The prosecution alleged further that Mbowe, in related offences, made seditious statements with the intention of bringing hatred and contempt to the citizens of the U nited Republic of Tanzania against the lawful authority of the government. It is alleged further that on the same day at Buibui grounds, Mbowe, Msigwa and Bulaya, with other persons who are not in court, jointly incited the residents of Kinondoni District in the city to commit offences of unlawful assembly, going armed in public and rioting.