KCB Bank Tanzania and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), have entered a cosponsorship agreement for the 2019/20 Mainland Premier League. The 495.6m/- agreement was signed in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the KCB Bank Managing Director, Cosmas Kimario and TFF president, Wallace Karia. KCB Bank Tanzania first co-sponsored the league in the 2017/18 season with a 325m/- deal, increasing the co-sponsorship value to 495.6m/-for the 2018/19 season. Citing great achievements within the league, KCB Bank Tanzania was compelled to renew the cosponsorship agreement for the 2019/20 season with a value of 495.6m/-, valuing the co-sponsorship package at 1.165bn/-over three seasons. Also in attendance at the agreement signing event was KCB Bank Tanzania Board Chair, John Ulanga accompanied by other members of KCB Bank board and staff, TFF Secretary General, Kidao Wilfred, Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) Chairman, Steven Mnguto and TPLB Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Boniface Wambura. Speaking to the press at the event KCB Bank Tanzania Managing Director, Kimario said that besides bank’s commitment to giving back to the society, co-sponsoring the league is also an opportunity for the bank to invest in a sector that will ultimately create employment through the nurturing of Tanzanian youth talents. Besides creating employment in football, KCB Bank Tanzania also runs the KCB 2jiajiri programme that has effectively trained 256 women in the areas of business formalisation, bookkeeping and sales with a further 100 young Tanzanian entrepreneurs to be trained in October. “We hope to continue creating more employment opportunities in the various sectors that our bank engages in,” said Kimario. “Supporting the Tanzanian government in the eradication of poverty is a big part of our business. As a bank, we are committed to our responsibility in corporate social investment in areas of education, health, environment, entrepreneurship and the marginalised society including children,” added Kimario. TFF president, Wallace Karia thanked the bank for co-sponsoring the top flight league for the third season and believes the contribution will make the 2019/20 season more of a success. Karia also urged other institutions in the private sector to follow in KCB Bank Tanzania footsteps in developing football in Tanzania.