THE future of Tanzania as a country of patriotic people and sound economy rests on what parents are inculcating in their children today. That was said by National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA) Executive Secretary, Dr Charles Msonde in Dar es Salaam recently, while presiding over Montessori Msimbazi Primary School fourth graduation ceremony. He said that as much as parents and guardians may want their children to excel in examination, the basic thing is to groom a people who are spiritually nourished and God fearing, adding: “It is only God fearing people who will honestly work hard and value their country and offspring.” While praising the institution for grooming responsible and patriotic pupils, he was informed that one of them, Moses Mbaga (13), who had just completed Grade VII was a computer wizard and had coded a programme dubbed ‘self-taught online’ for fellow students to access NECTA past examination papers for revisions as they prepare for exams. Receiving an award from the Executive Secretary, Mbaga was praised to have come up with the sample to use android apps and websites, which can help many Tanzanian societies to have access to the Council’s data with just a click after one logs in. “One just has to register with NECTA and log in…that would help most students to study hard without just stocking and carrying physical papers. My current project is to design ‘Test Yourself Grade V, VI and VII mobile app that will have NECTA curriculum-based tests and I thank the Council for their technical support and I pray to launch it towards the end of this year, said the student. On her part, the institution’s Manager, Doreen Mwakalik asked parents and guardians of children in schools to see into that they keenly follow behaviour of their kids and should not only be interested in their class performance. “If children are groomed in a good way, cases of suicide and other crimes they may indulge in in the near future would be minimized in the society,” she said. Reached for a comment, the school’s headtecaher Josephine Mrosso said that the fourth graduation witnessed 32 pupils, where eight of them were girls, become fully prepared to go to Secondary education, adding that her institution is opened to all Tanzanians regardless of one’s religion and denomination.