SIMBA SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems  said their main target is to collect maximum three points tomorrow as they host Mtibwa Sugar at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The champions will be looking to continue their 100 per cent Vodacom Premier League (VPL), start after pounding JKT Tanzania 3-1 in their opening clash at the same venue on August 28th this year. On the other hand, Mtibwa Sugar eyes to recover from their slump after losing all three points in their league opener to Lipuli FC (3-1), hence they also have another opportunity to post tangible results tomorrow. Speaking recently here, Aussems said he understand that Mtibwa Sugar is a difficult and tough side but insisted that they will go for three points and nothing else. “As you know, we already made a good start of the season and on Friday (tomorrow), we have a chance to prove that we are up for the challenge,” he said. However, the Belgian expressed his worry that the team’s striking department is still incomplete as skipper John Bocco and Brazilian Wilker da Silva have extra two-three weeks to recover from injuries as such, all his hopes rely on Meddie Kagere. “The good thing is that my players who were on duty with the national team have returned back with big smiles without injuries,” he said. Key striker Kagere was expected back in Simba camp yesterday after leading Rwanda to a 7-0 rout of Seychelles in 2022 Fifa World Cup qualifiers at Kigali Stadium on Tuesday. In Tuesday night’s victory, skipper, Jacques Tuyisenge and Kagere scored twice apiece, while Djihad Bizimana, Yannick Mukunzi and Muhadjiri Hakizimana were on target with a goal each. Amavubi matched into the group stage 10-0 on aggregate following last week’s 3-0 win in the two sides’ first-leg played at Linite Stadium in Seychelles. It was Rwanda’s biggest victory in a single match since humiliating Eritrea 9-0 in December 2007. Other top flight matches will be played during the weekend whereby on Saturday, Namungo FC will be at home--Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa, Lindi hosting Singida United, JKT Tanzania will take on Lipuli FC at Isamuhyo ground located in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam, whereas Mbao FC will battle it out against neighbours Biashara United at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. The action continues on Sunday as Ndanda FC entertains Mwadui FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara, while Tanzania Prisons will be at their territory Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya confronting Ruvu Shooting. At CCM Kirumba, Alliance FC will host Kagera Sugar.