THE Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) has made some changes to the initial league fixture to accommodate Taifa Stars ahead of their vital Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) clash against Sudan. With the abrupt changes, Simba SC will now face Mtibwa Sugar in the Vodacom Premier League (V PL) match on Friday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam and not on Tuesday next week as previously noted. Moreover, the other VPL game involving hosts Mbeya City against Young Africans which was set up on September 18th has been shifted to another date yet to be mentioned. According to the briefing made yesterday by TPLB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Boniface Wambura, they decided to make such changes to enable Stars enter in camp early on September 15th ahead of their crucial CHAN match against Sudan on September 20th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. “It should be understood that the occurred changes have not been caused by the Tanzania F ootball Federation (TF F ) but rather delays from CAF to announce the next round of CHAN fixtures,” he said. He also disclosed that the changes affect the match between Mbeya City and Yanga as the latter must have enough time to prepare for their CAF Champions League against Zambia’s Z esco United on September 14th in Dar es Salaam and the return leg match in Lusaka on September 28th. Yanga have pitched a weeklong camp in Mwanza and they expect to play their second friendly match today against Toto Africans at CCM K irumba Stadium before journeying back to Dar es Salaam ahead of their CAF CL first leg clash against Z esco U nited on Saturday. Already, entry fees for Saturday’s match have been announced and Royal seats will be accessed by 100,000/-, VIP A will go for 25,000/- while V IP B and C will be accommodated for 10,000/- and 3,000/- respectively. Before today’s friendly, Yanga registered a 1-1 draw against Pamba FC at the same venue with striker David Molinga equalising late for his Jangwani Street based club. It was the first goal for Molinga ever since he joined Y anga and the team’s Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera has already pleaded that he needs to be given more playing time before he can start showcasing his remarkable performance there. “Scoring a goal today (Saturday) has made him happy and his confidence is coming back. I know him very well and he will get better as time goes since he is still in the process to lose weight,” said Zahera after the match. He also remarked that even the former team’s striker Heritier Makambo scored three goals in his first ten matches at the club as such, fans should be patient with the hit man.