THE International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (Mechanism) will today conduct review hearing of the case facing Augustin Ngirabatware, former Rwanda government minister. The Arusha based court said in a statement availed to ‘Daily News’ at the weekend that its Appeals Chamber was due to start hearing oral submissions from the parties for the purpose of determining, whether Ngirabatware, former Minister of Planning and member of the Prefecture Committee of the Mouvement Républicain National pour la Démocratie et le Développement political party in Gisenyi Prefecture, had presented sufficient evidence capable worth relying on to establish the new fact in his case. “The Appeals Chamber will then hear, if it considers it necessary or refute the evidence from the Prosecution. Each party will present final submissions at the conclusion of the Review Hearing,” said the court in the statement. On 20 December 2012, the trial Chamber II of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) Mr Ngirabatware directed or induced the public to commit genocide, based on his speech at a roadblock on the Cyanika-Gisa road in Nyamyumba Commune. The Trial Chamber also found Ngirabatware guilty of instigating and aiding and abetting genocide, based on his role in distributing weapons and his statements at two roadblocks in Nyamyumba Commune on 7 April 1994, and rape as a crime against humanity. It sentenced Ngirabatware to 35 years of imprisonment. On 8 July 2016, Ngirabatware filed before the Mechanism a request for review of his convictions, in light of the discovery of a new fact. On 19 June 2017, the Appeals Chamber granted Ngirabatware’s request to review his convictions and determined that a hearing should be held, pursuant to Rule 147 of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, to allow the parties to provide supporting and rebuttal evidence concerning the new fact. The review hearing will be presided over by Judge Theodor Meron, who is also the court’s president. The UN’s International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals has, since 2010, handled outstanding and ongoing cases from the former International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) that tried suspects in the 1994 genocide that killed around 800,000 people, mainly minority Tutsis.