URANIUM exploration company, Mantra Tanzania, has donated first electronic libraries to two secondary schools in Namtumbo District, Mtwara Region in a move aimed at supporting the use of technology in learning. The e-libraries which were donated to Selous and Nasuli secondary schools are termed as an important milestone in the use of technology in learning in the district. Speaking during the handover ceremony at Selous Secondary School, the Managing Director of Mantra Tanzania, Frederick Kibodya said the company collaborates with the community in overcoming various development challenges within the community. He said as part of its Cooperate Social Responsibility programme, the company has partnered with an NGO, Read International to transform unused rooms at Namtumbo secondary schools into wellstocked libraries by furnishing them with the essentials: Basic training on library management, shelves, tables, seats and books. He said the total cost of the project amounted to more than nine thousand dollars for each school. In addition to the costs of the electronic library itself, this amount also included the purchase of a print media to supplement the library stock. “Mantra has done something good to the school’s youth by introducing them to the world of science and technology that will give them the opportunity to read online,” said Namtumbo District Administrative Secretary, Aden Nchimbi. He said the company has been helping the school in many ways, from provision of a science lab, a borehole, solar power, desks and chairs, and supporting the school’s eco-club and now the modern library, adding that the modern e-library will result to improved performance for students and teachers because they will have access to various online resources. He said by creating a functional and inspirational learning environment, schools are provided with the tools for effective learning and promoting a culture of reading. “In getting access to a library, students read more, learn more and get further in their studies, the initiative has paved way for students and teachers to have access to educational resources necessary for the development of a reading culture,” he added. He said that alongside the creation of new libraries, Mantra in collaboration with other organizations will monitor and evaluate the use and effectiveness of the existing refurbished libraries. He said Mantra will continue to complement the government’s efforts in bringing development to the people.