FINANCE and Planning Minister, Dr Philip Mpango, has directed the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to investigate thoroughly all procurement entities (PEs), which reek of corruption and do not comply with procurement procedures. The directives were given in Dar es Salaam yesterday after the release of a report on the Performance of Public Procurement for the Financial Year 2018/19 handed over to him by the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA). The procurement entities, which had poor compliance level with scores below 60 per cent include the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA), the Agricultural Seed Agency and the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR). Others are Kaliua District Council, Nsimbo District Council and the Centre for Foreign Relations. Besides, Dr Mpango directed procurement officers from those institutions to step down from their positions with immediate effect as investigation continued. He also urged the heads of those institutions to re-evaluate themselves whether they were still credible to remain in the same posts. "We cannot allow things to continue like this. The money from taxpayers cannot continue being squandered, while it could have been spent on the provision of basic social services like building schools and so forth," said Dr Mpango. According to chairman of the Board of Directors of PPRA Matern Lumbanga the assessment of corruption indicators in procurement revealed 131 contracts from 39 PEs had higher red flags in either one of its phases or its overall scores. A total of 12 contracts from nine PEs worth 25.8bn/- had high red flags score in the overall assessment. The contracts above were being executed by the Ministry of Water, Tanzania Railways Corporation, the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA). Among others are Singida and Wanging'ombe Water and Sanitation Authority, Kigamboni and Ubungo Municipal Council and Kahama Town Council. Mr Lumbanga further said PPRA investigated five PEs involving tenders and contracts. They include Nkasi District Council, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA), the Rural Roads Agency and TBS. He disclosed that the investigations helped to recover 3.39bn/- from being misappropriated by unscrupulous bidders and officials. "Investigations also revealed that the government incurred a loss amounting to 4.36bn/- from fees that were due from bidders and changes made to project designs that led to the abandonment of some executed works and already procured materials," noted the chairman. The minister also directed investigation reports to be handed immediately to PCCB and the named institutions return the money. Equally, he directed disci plinary measures to be taken against officials responsible for the loss of taxpayers’ money. "This cancer must be dealt with, otherwise we will not go far...PCCB should deal with this as soon as possible. Don't leave any stones untouched," he added. Dr Mpango applauded PPRA for going further to assess the value and quality for money on the projects as per legal requirement for it was important for the taxpayers to be informed about the same. PPRA had conducted the value for money audits on 290 procurement contracts worth over 8bn/- which comprised of buildings, roads, bridges and civil works worth over 996bn/, electrical works (25.85bn/-) and over 7bn/- railway construction. Others are water supply and irrigation schemes 60.11bn/-, goods worth 124.84bn/- and 48.24bn/- consultant services. He also urged PPRA to make a close follow up on the PEs embarking on procurement of goods exceeding 20bn/-, pledging more support in carrying out the task. Dr Mpango, however, noted that 76 per cent as the overall average compliance level compared to 74 per cent recorded in 2017/18 was lower than the target of 80 per cent. He pointed out that he did not see why compliance was not by 100 per cent, thus warning the institution that would not have conformed to the National e-procurement System (TANePS) by December 31, this year to face the conse Tanzania quences. "I direct you the Permanent Secretary as the accounting officer to revoke their certificate of appointment. "I am not satisfied at all with the steps taken despite ongoing training related to the system. Therefore, PPRA should also avail to me a report copied to the Prime Minister on the implementation of TANePs by October 15," he said. Dr Mpango said upon receiving the report, it would be presented to President John Magufuli as well as being presented to the Parliament for tabling.