TAIFA Stars once again did what they know best, lost the most important match of their CHAN qualifier when they allowed North Sudan to beat them by lone goal in their own backyard which is unpardonable to say the least. They are now expected to take on the same opponent in a fortnight and if the performance they demonstrated on Sunday is anything to go by, then only a miracle would save them from elimination. Once again, Tanzanian soccer fans were not only livid, but they blamed Taifa Stars for missing over 15, open scoring opportunities. But again, the fans forgot what I have repeatedly written in my sports columns, and that is, our players cannot score goals because they are incapable of threading faultless passes among themselves. Yes, Taifa Stars players cannot pass, correctly, the ball among themselves for half a minute, and if that is the reality, how do you expect such players to score? What we need to know is that a goal is nothing but a pass that is not intended for the goalkeeper. Now if you cannot correctly pass the ball to your colleague even for one minute, how do you expect such players to score when they don’t have the ability to target the ball into a goal, but away from the goalkeeper? In fact, if you look at teams like Liverpool, Manchester City, Barcelona or Real Madrid play, and the way their players thread their passes to one another on the pitch, and sometimes, for over two minutes, then you would realize why the foregoing teams are the greatest in the world. They are the greatest soccer clubs in the world because they are not only capable of threading passes among themselves faultlessly, and almost endlessly, but they are also capable of scoring many, classic goals sometimes from very impossible angles. Players from the foregoing top-flight European soccer clubs are able of doing that simply because all their players are armed in basic football and they are armed in basic football which they earned after attending well, organized and scientifically run soccer academies a path that we have refused to go through! Simply put, you cannot expect a bunch of players who learnt their art of playing football in the streets, rather than through soccer academies to beat North Sudan whose players have gone through soccer academies. Therefore if we want to know why we are losing in international, competitive matches, the answer is very simple, almost all our players from Taifa Stars to our clubs, including the so called big guns, lack basic football because they learnt their game through the streets. Now what is this animal called basic football? Basic football is a theoretical and practical knowledge that a football player has learnt from tender age, and which he exercises it, almost instinctively, a knowledge that includes, among others, how to protect one’s goal when dead balls are taken against your team, what to do when you have lost the ball, reading the game in progress and readjusting, when to attack and defend, the ability to understand the coach and implement, to the letter, the match plan. But because our players are not armed in basic football that is why foreign coaches say our players have difficulties in learning what they are told to do. The sooner we establish well organized and scientifically run soccer academies, the more likely our players would start playing better. Otherwise we should simply forget about doing well in whichever international soccer competition we get into. Our second problem is that our technical benches don’t work hard on their players, especially in pumping them with the four, magical S, namely, tough exercise that would help them in building their strength, speed, suppleness and stamina. The point is, you cannot win present day modern, international competitive matches if your players are not physically and mentally well prepared. According to one of the country’s most successful Taifa Stars and club coaches, Syllersaid Mziray, who has since passed on, a well drilled team, in terms of the four, magical S, can do well in continental tournament up to the semifinal. He said things start getting difficult beyond the quarter or semifinal because that is where not only strength, speed, suppleness and stamina are required, but also massive knowledge in basic football and skills are required. Indeed, it is beyond the quarter final that you start meeting clubs like Esperance, Al Ahly, Mamelodi Sundowns and others, clubs whose most of the players, if not all, have gone through soccer academies. But what is tragic about Tanzanian football is that our players don’t like tough training. In fact, they hate coaches who are known for tough exercises. The more we have such players in clubs, the more unlikely we would do well in international soccer tournaments. If we want Taifa Stars to do well, and if we think we are also incapable of starting soccer academies, then let get Mtibwa Sugar and Azam FC U-20 players and transform them into our national soccer team, Taifa Stars. Alternatively, let us get out of these international soccer tournaments where we are getting more embarrassment than anything.