NUMEROUS investment potentials that need to be linked to rapid emerging industries in Coast Region are still untapped, it has been learnt. The new investment guideline for the region has uncovered number of opportunities ranging from fisheries, agriculture, livestock keeping and services. According to Coast Regional Commissioner (RC), Eng. Evarist Ndikilo, the document will be unveiled during the forthcoming business forum slated for October 3. The forum will be part of activities, including exhibitions between 1st and 7th October, to promote the region’s business and investment opportunities. “We bank on these events to market the investment potentials as highlighted in the investment guide,” Eng. Ndikilo stated during his talks with the Executive Director of the Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), Mr Geoffrey Mwambe. The two were in discussion about promotion of investment opportunities in the region, focusing on the forthcoming business forum and exhibitions. The regional commissioner’s office, the Tanzania Standard Newspapers Ltd (TSN) and the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade), are collaboratively organising the two events. According to the regional commissioner, the events set to attract over 100,000 visitors and about 500 industries will exhibit their products and services. Unlike previous exhibitions in the region, this year it will also accommodate the industries from other regions of Morogoro, Dar es Salaam and Tanga. Eng Ndikilo explained that the experts would take the participants through the region’s investment guideline. The Coast Region in collaboration with the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF), prepared the guideline, with funding from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). “It’s a document which we have been eagerly waiting for so long. Now these opportunities will be exposed to investors within and outside the country,” he stated. He said the TIC, which is mandated to promote the investments, is automatically an owner of the document. “After the forum, we expect you (TIC), to circulate the guideline to investors within and outside the country,” he said. Mr Mwambe said of one big advantages of the Coast Region is its readiness to receive investors because of available adequate land for investments. “The Coast Region is well positioned to host large scale industries considering its nearness to Dar es Salaam Port,” he said. Mr Mwambe, on the other hand, hailed the TSN for helping the regions organising the business forums and informing the investors and public at large over available opportunities in those regions. “ We have no doubt on the TSN…after-all it had already organised such forums in nine regions, we hope that this one will even be better,” he said. TSN projects coordinator Rish Urio said the TSN would effectively use its media platforms to make awareness among the investors and the public over trade and investment opportunities available in the region.