WOMEN have been urged to contest in the forthcoming local elections slated for November this year. Speaking at the 14th Gender Festival Organised by the Tanzania Gender Network Programme in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Former Speaker of the National Assembly, Ms Anne Makinda said women deserve equal chances during local elections. She said the November elections should open the way for more women to contest for leadership and enable them assume their leadership roles in the society after the general elections next year. She said the under-representation of women at any level of governance and decision-makire sults in a democratic deficit, saying it has been proven time and again that diverse groups make better decisions, adding that this is particularly true when it comes to a task as challenging as representing the interests of citizens at the local level. According to Mama Makinda, influencing policies in housing, security, transport, and the economy and local government make important decisions that affect the lives of women and men. Women’s equal participation and representation in local decision-making processes is critical for prioritizing women’s practical needs and issues in local governments’ agendas and for localizing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), she insisted, adding that gender-balanced local councils are important steps to attain gender balance at the national level. Women activist groups have also been advised to translate into Kiswahili the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, to enable more people understand it. The Kiswahili version can also serve neighbouring countries which have started the initiative to adopt that language after the recent SADC meeting held in Dar es Salaam recently. Tanzanian education expert, politician, diplomat, and activist who headed the 1995 United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, Ambassador Gertrude Mongella said that the declaration is resourceful for gender equality, so it should also be translated into Kiswahili. "The Beijing Declaration and Platform is the most progressive blueprint ever forreadvancing women’s rights. Let it be accessible in Kiswahili for our people who understand this language" she said. As Tanzania struggles to embrace industrial economy, said Ambassador Mongella, more youths should understand the theme of this year's gender festival "Gender activists on the way to change the world" and put it into practice. She urged women to prepare their election manifesto in advance for the coming local elections slated for November this year, so that they can be implemented after the polls. The Beijing Declaration and Platform which is an agenda for women’s empowerment is aimed at removing all the obstacles to women’s active participation in all spheres of public and private life. This is done through ensuring women a full and equal share in economic, social, cultural and political decision- making. The principle of shared power and responsibility should be established between women and men at home, in the workplace, and in the wider national and international communities. The Declaration and Platform for Action affirm that equality between women and men is a matter of human rights and a condition for social justice. Speaking at the same event, former Prime Minister, retired Judge, Joseph Warioba said the power of women should be manifested in their unity and solidarity. He urged gender activists to work together as a team and avoid issues that set them apart, like tribal, religious or political affiliations.