TANZANIA police and their Ugandan counterparts are scheduled to hold high level talks on the seizure of a Ugandan boat suspected to have encroached in the country’s side of the lake and engaged in piracy. IGP Simon Sirro (pictured) issued the statement in Tarime on Tuesday while on an official tour to inspect the ongoing construction of police quarters in Nyandoto on the outskirts of Tarime town. Police in Mara Region are holding a boat and some crew members for questioning, as they are suspected to be of Ugandan origin after Tanzanian officers intercepted them while attempting to conduct illegal fishing on the side of the country last week. It was not clear, according to Tarime/Rorya zonal police here, how the foreign boat suspected to be of Ugandan origin with a number of crew members who introduced themselves to be police personnel from that country managed to cross over to the Tanzanian side without permission. According to IGP Sirro, police are still conducting investigations after the concerned crew members identified themselves to be Ugandan police personnel and did not have solid explanations and legitimacy on their presence on the Tanzanian side of the lake. ‘’My office is making constructive consultations with our Ugandan colleagues concerning the circumstances that surrounded the whole incident and also if they were involved in piracy and illegal fishing so that the necessary actions can be taken,’’ said IGP Sirro. The police boss revealed that over the past few months, police on patrol speed boats in Lake Victoria apprehended several suspected pirates that had on several occasions been camouflaged in the neighbours’ military attire. ‘’During past Lake Victoria operations, police apprehended various suspects who dress like staff of the neighbouring country’s security organs; we are making appropriate followups because criminals can also manage to trick the law enforcers by using different actions, including the way they dress,’’ he added. IGP Sirro said that he will personally meet his Ugandan counterpart around mid-month to hold discussions on how to conduct collective patrols along shores of Lake Victoria to ensure that illegal fishermen and pirates are not accorded a safe haven. He thanked the Tarime/Rorya zone as well as Mara regional police for their tireless efforts to keep off international armed pirates operating along Lake Victoria shores, obbing innocent residents of valuables and sometimes injuring them. In a related development, IGP Sirro added that, following completion of BVR registration, police are teaming up with the immigration department to apprehend all illegal aliens who sneaked into the country through the registration process. ‘’The operation is envisioned to arrest all foreigners who may have utilised the opportunity to pretend like one of us here and participated in the exercise that was only constitutionally meant for Tanzanians only and never otherwise,’’ he said. He reiterated the commitment by the police force to provide guaranteed security and safety to all political actors without fear or favor, urging the same to refrain from engaging in illegal activities aimed at disrupting local government polls scheduled to be held in November this year.