TANZANIA yesterday won the case against seizure of Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) aircraft in South Africa and the plane was expected back home last night. Judge Twala of the High Court of South Africa—Gauteng Local Division—set aside the August 21, 2019 dated seizure order after granting an application by Tanzania for lifting the ruling that was issued ex-parte, without involving the government. The judge ruled against businessman Hermanus Steyn, ordering him to pay all the costs for prosecuting the application before the South African court, including the costs of hiring two counsels. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Dr Damas Ndumbaro said in considering the application, the court allowed one of the grounds that had been presented by Tanzanian team of lawyers in South Africa. The businessman had attempted to enforce an arbitral award for 36,375,672.81 US dol-lars in his favour. However, according to the deputy minister, the court rejected the businessman’s approach, agreeing with submissions by state lawyers that the arbitral award was invalidated having the parties reaching into a settlement deed, which led to decree that was afterward issued by High Court. “I am of the considered view that the arbitration award ceased to exist on May 3, 2011, when it was made an order of the court,”the judge ruled in the verdict. He further said, “I hold the view that when the parties concluded the deed of settlement, the compromise, it was in relation to, or a compromise of the order of the Court of May 3, 2011 and not the arbitration award which was no longer in existence at the time.” The judge explained that the compromise was by consent between the parties made an order of the court, which only entitled the holder of the decree to enforce the consent order in case of any breach of the order. According to him, there is no express or tacitly implied term in the compromise that was made an order of Court that when the breach occurs, the other party would be entitled to rely on the initial arbitration award. He pointed out that once a deed of settlement is filed in court for compromise of a claim or any award or decree it means that the claim, award or decree that existed before the deed of settlement is entered into is abandoned, it becomes not binding to the parties and is overtaken by events. “I am satisfied therefore that this court does not have jurisdiction to attach the property of the applicant to confirm or found jurisdiction based on a court order of a foreign court. I therefore find that the ex-parte order of August 21, 2019 was erroneously granted and should be set aside,” the judge ruled. Dr Ndumbaro, a lawyer by profession and an Advocate of the High Court, who was leading the Tanzanian team in South Africa, said the decree could be enforced by Tanzanian courts and South Africa’s. Other state lawyers included Deputy Solicitor General Dr Ally Possi, Principal State Attorney Vicent Tango, who is also the Director of Litigation within the Solicitor General’s Office, Principal State Attorney Gabriel Malata, who is also the Commissioner of Labour and State Attorney from ATCL, Mr Job Mrema. They teamed up with their South African counterparts, including Advocate Ngcukaitobi and Victor Nkhwashu Attorneys Inc in challenging the seizure order. Other grounds argued related to state immunity and a foreigner to litigate in a foreign country. The deputy minister said that they were, however, surprised to learn that the businessman filed another case on appeal against the court’s ruling. Their findings discovered that Mr Steyn filed his appeal on Tuesday, while the court’s ruling was delivered yesterday. “Mr Steyn has filed another case against this ruling before it is read. We wonder how he knew this ruling would come out against him until he appealed before it was even read. He filed the appeal yesterday (Tuesday) while the ruling has been delivered today (yesterday), “he wondered. Dr Ndumbaro thanked the South African court for observing justices, but also extended his congratulations to most Tanzanians, who joined efforts to rescue the aircraft from South Africa. In a press conference in Dar es Salaam, Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi also thanked the South African lawyers who teamed up with the state lawyers in pursuing the application. He said there were other arrangements made by the state lawyers to enforce the court ruling and subsequent enable the release of ATCL plane. The South African court issued the highly contested attachment order on August 21, 2019, after considering ex-parte a notice of motion (attachment and edictal citation) lodged by the businessman against eight respondents, including the government of Tanzania. Other respondents into the matter were ATCL, the Airport Company of South Africa Limited, Director of South African Civil Aviation Authority, Air Traffic Navigation Services COS Limited and three individuals, Mr Sibusiso Nkabinde, Mr Kgomotso Molefi and Mr Patrick Sithole. In the order, the South African court had restrained the three individuals and Air Traffic Navigation Services from granting any permission or clearance necessary to authorise the departure of the aircraft sought to be attached until such time as the aircraft is released from attachment by court order. Upon learning of the shocking order, the government dispatched state lawyers who teamed up with their South African counterparts to contest the ruling. The government filed the application for reconsideration and lifting the order under certificate of urgency.