STREAMLINING Health Research Review and Medicines Regulation in Tanzania (SMERT) project has recorded remarkable progress, following success in the creation of an electronic reporting system for serious adverse events in clinical trials. A two-year SMERT project initiated last year, has been coordinated by Tanzania Medical Devices Authority (TMDA), National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR) and Kilimanjaro Clinical Research Institute (KCRI), with Euro300, 000 sponsorships from the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP). The successes were revealed yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the SMERT Second Annual Meeting, which gathered various stakeholders, including the UK-based University of St Andrews. The gathering was for discussing the Projects’ achievements and challenges, and come up with ways forward before putting the research results into operations. The TMDA Acting Director General, Mr Akida Khea, explained that, electronic reporting system for serious adverse events in clinical trials is to serve in reporting on, among others, medical trials that proved ineffective for human uses. “The system will be swiftly disseminating the information to all stakeholders, including the responsible ministry for health issues, for immediate reactions. Immediate response includes complete a ban of research that proves the ineffectiveness of a certain drug, or to continue with the survey in another approach,” he said. The system is also for reporting the successful researches and let the results put in to practice, said the Acting DG. SMERT Co-Principal Investigator from the University of St Andrews, Dr Wilber Sabiiti, chipped in that other project’s objectives included equipping researchers and members of ethics committees in Tanzania with skills to effectively and timely assess the ethicality of research protocols. The aim was to avoid unnecessary delays in approving research ethics applications and fake research being conducted in Tanzania, said Dr Sabiiti. According to him, SMERT was also for strengthening infrastructure and human resource for rapid submission, review and feedback of research ethics applications to the NIMR headquarters through Mbeya Medical Research Centre and National Health Research and Ethics Committee (NatHREC), “Reporting about the safety of medicines and vaccines during clinical trials at TMDA as well as monitoring ethical conduct of health research and clinical trials of medicines and devices for both NIMR and TMDA is also our main focus,” he said. The Director for Research Coordination and Promotion in NIMR, Dr Erasto Kasyoba, commented that, the project had lots of benefits as it also served in raising awareness and promoting dialogue among policy makers and healthcare implementers about the importance of ensuring appropriate ethical standards for medical research in Tanzania. “Now, as medicines are becoming more complex due to technological advancement during this era, medical research is becoming more global in its organization, hence, medicine regulatory is crucial,” he said.