TANZANIAN runner, Failuna Matanga will be in action as the IAAF World Championships opens in Doha Qatar. In total, four runners will represent Tanzania in the 17th edition of the Championship to be staged at the renovated multi-purpose Khalifa International Stadium in Doha from today to October 6th this year. Failuna, who is the lone woman in the team, will compete in women’s full marathon and is expected to pose a serious challenge to renowned runners from Kenya and Ethiopia. Her best time is 2 hours and 27 minutes. Others making up the national team includes; Alphonce Simbu, Stefano Huche and Augustino Sule, who are due to leave on October 2nd 2019 ahead of the men’s marathon event pegged for October 5th 2019. Sulle posted his personal best time last year, when he shattered Juma Ikangaa’s record by clocking 2 hours, 07 minutes and 40 in Toronto Marathon in 2018. Simbu best time is 2:08:27 while Huche qualifying time is 2:12:24. The team will be under a seasoned athletics coach Andrew Panga. The presence of Simbu, Huche and Sule in the race increases hopes for Tanzania to scoop medals in this category. Simbu is one of the renowned runners from Tanzania, who has a good marathon record. He was the gold medallist in the 2017 Mumbai Marathon, finished fifth in Rio Olympic Games in 2016 and won bronze in London Marathon in 2017. The team was flagged off on Wednesday in Arusha but Captain Simbu lamented that they were neglected in Arusha without support as they prepared to represent Tanzania in the prestigious event. He said preparatory camp collapsed, each one of athlete was in his or her own and only met on Wednesday for a farewell occasion. The athletes also secured return tickets at the 11th hour from good Samaritans. Again, Tanzanians will have a chance to watch this great athletic championship through DStv live on SuperSport 13. “We are very delighted to broadcast the championships live to our subscribers in Tanzania and we are expecting to see our team not just competing, but also winning” said Jacqueline Woiso – Multi- Choice Tanzania Managing Director. Tanzania has so far managed to win only two medals in the IAAF World Championship meet. The first to win it was Christopher Isegwe who won silver in 42km marathon in the championship held in Helsink Finland in 2005. The second medal is bronze and was brought by Simbu during the championship in Scotland in 2017.