PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein yesterday graced the opening of the 10th Association of Pathologists of Tanzania (APT), conference and annual general meeting with a call to train more people to have enough skilled labour in the health sector. He said more efforts were needed to improve health services in the country, including having specialists in all medical fields, enough general doctors, nurses and other staff to serve people with required standards. Dr Shein noted that his government remained fully committed to improving the health sector under the free medical care arrangement for all Zanzibar people and even poor patients from Muhimbili National Hospital could be referred to Mnazi Mmoja Hospital and would be treated. “Medical services in Zanzibar have improved tremendously in the recent past. We have narrowed the ratio of a medical doctor to patients after buying some medical equipment, including a digital Xray machine, a CT-scan and MRI,” Dr Shein explained at the meeting held at Sheikh Idris Abdulwakil Multi-purpose Conference Hall, where he also stressed the importance of pathologists. He said the main challenge had been to maintain the supply of essential medicines as many people normally complained about poor medical services, whenever there was a shortage at hospitals or health centres. “We have been increasing the hospital budget to ensure all essential medicines are available. But we have to train more staff, the retired staff or those about to retire should not be rushed to leave. They are still useful in this exceptional profession.” At the meeting, also attended by the Second Vice- President Seif Ali Iddi, Regional Commissioner (RC), for West Urban, Ayoub Mohamed Mahmmoud and leaders in some health organisations, Minister for Health Hamad Rashid Mohamed commended Dr Shein for his efforts to improve the health sector. He said there had been many reforms made during this 7th phase of leadership in Zanzibar and people were happy with free medical care, including medical examination and the work done by pathologists in the country. Dr Charles Massambu, the chairperson of APT too commended Zanzibar for improving the medical laboratory at Mnazi Mmoja Hospital to the level recognised internationally, while a lecturer, Prof Eligius Lyamuya, briefed the audience on the importance of bio-surveillance in fighting against communicable and non-communicable diseases.