PROJECT manager professionals from different parts of Africa have underscored the need for the continent to advance its people to become more competitive in the global economy. The Project Management Institute’s (PMI), Tanzania Chapter President, Anael Ndosa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that for this to happen the person interested to become project manager needs to develop competencies in project management through experience and academic excellence. “In the advent of the 4thindustrial revolution characterised by ubiquitous digital technology, the growing youth segment and a population estimated to grow to 1.68 billion by 2030. There is a significant opportunity for the continent to leapfrog and advance its people become more competitive in the global economy,” he said. The three day PMI 2019 conference provided project manager professionals from different corners of the continent with an opportunity to share experiences, reinforce core skills and network with leading project management influencers, industry experts and other practitioners across all areas of expertise from organisations in Africa and beyond. The event was organized by PMI and supported by all 14 PMI Chapters across Africa including, Tanzania as host Chapter, Angola, Kenya, Zimbabwe, South Africa, DRC, Ghana, Nigeria, Cameroon, Botswana, Mauritius, Senegal, Ivory Coast and Uganda. He said Africa is becoming projectised, with the Project Manager playing a key role to driving successful delivery of development goals. Similar to other countries in Africa, Tanzania is on the verge of development, the country is quickly transforming, and this means there are a number of projects that are currently being implemented. “It is important to have a skilled project manager for both small and large projects, thus proper training is essential to assist the individual to acquire and work on key competencies to make them deliver,” he said. Good practices in project management will undoubtedly bring changes to how we achieve our development objectives. PMI is here to uplift the project manager’s capabilities and to ensure they are sufficiently equipped to deliver projects and strategic business objectives. However the project management profession continues to face barriers including limited recognition of the profession at national levels, limited governance structures to promote project management, as well as inadequate awareness of the need for the profession in organisational leadership. Across the continent, it has been common practice for subject matter experts to be given Project Management roles without the required skills to deliver, a misconception that often results in project failure. Despite these barriers however, there is a growing shift towards advancing the profession, with the number of registered project managers in Tanzania having grown to 84 the last 3 years.