TANZANIA wants to build a competitive export-led industrial sector that will stand a better chance to penetrate the entire continent, taking advantage of its geographical location. The initiative centres on making Dar es Salaam an industrial hub by starting earmarking markets bordering the country in East African Community (EAC) and Southern African Development Community (SADC), blocs. Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA), Director General, Colonel (rtd), Joseph Simbakalia said currently, the authority is focusing on making sure that the existing industries exceed their production capacity to enable them supply regional markets. “At the moment, factories at the EPZ and SEZ are exporting all their products to overseas markets. “And, those in EAC and SADC if they want, say high quality jeans produced in Dar, have to import from overseas. This makes the garments very expensive,” Mr Simbakalia told reporters when receiving a Chinese delegation of 80 from Shandong Province, yesterday. He told the delegation that putting an industry in Tanzania one automatically reaches out to the EAC and SADC markets which are linked by railway services thanks to central corridor and TAZARA respectively. “Tanzania occupies a unique favourable geographical location on the eastern seaboard of Africa, and it is the link of economy which bridges two regional markets of EAC and SADC,” he said. The EPZA chief said the country is an ideal destination for “your investments from now and looking into the future of sub-Saharan Africa as a new global frontier of emerging markets.” Mr Simbakalia said that at the moment, Tooku Garment Production Centre produces 600,000 pairs of jean trousers a day, but are all exported abroad. “The Tooku says as from next year, they will produce 1,000,000 pairs of jean trousers per day and double their employment figures, which currently stand at 2,700,” he said. The Department of Commerce of Shandong Province Deputy Director General, Lyu Wei, thanked the EPZA for providing information on investment policy and opportunities. “We will be in a better position to provide our remarks after concluding our tour,” Ms Lyu said. The delegation’s visit was organised by the Department of Commence of Shandong in collaboration with Tanzania Investment Centre and East Africa’s Commercial and Logistics Centre Chamber of Commerce (EACLCCC) and will spend two days each in mainland and isles. EACLCCC Manager, Ms Cathy Wang said the delegation comprising government and private companies is looking for export and import opportunities. “Their intention is to explore the Tanzanian market for a friendly exchange and common development of bilateral relations and mutual development between Tanzania and China,” Ms Wang said. EPZA said there are over 100 economic processing zones (EPZs), that house a single industry in the country and about 10 special economic zones (SEZs) two each in Dar and Coast and one each in Kigoma, Mara, Morogoro, and Ruvuma. The Dar es Salaam Benjamin Mkapa SEZ with 20 factories is almost full and the last industry is set to take off in the near future. The one in Bagamoyo has 12 factories though two are in operation while the remaining in various construction stages. EPZA has the statutory mandate to establish various SEZs including EPZs, Free Ports and Free Trade Areas.