THE government has pledged to continue addressing challenges facing widows, women and children in inheritance matters and repeal discriminatory inheritance laws to ensure justice prevails after the father’s death in a family. The promise was made in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustino Mahiga, during the opening of a dialogue on inheritance and customary laws. The dialogue was organised by Women in Law and Development Africa (WiLDAF). The meeting was part of WiLDAF annual general meeting, which was attended by WiLDAF members from across the country. Dr Mahiga admitted there were some problems in different laws, but noted that the government was more than ready to collaborate with non-state actors and other stakeholders and get their opinions to repeal discriminatory laws and ensure justice for all. "It's true that the customary law of 1963 originates from our own cultures and traditions. I appeal to stakeholders and activists to continue sensitising communities to change their attitudes and allow widows and children to get their rights in the distribution of inheritance wealth," he said. Dr Mahiga noted that the government would continue taking affirmative action to change oppressive laws, saying non-state actors had the obligation to continue educating society about "respect for the dignity of everybody in society to avoid conflict." Dr Mahiga showered praises on WiLDAF for organising a taskforce, dubbed Kikuhami, which advocated the protection of women and child rights and changes of discriminatory customary laws. "I know that Kikuhami is doing an excellent job to sensitise society and Members of Parliament (MPs) and create a good environment for women’s rights, when it comes to land issues," said Dr Mahiga. For her part, WiLDAF Executive Director Anna Kulaya commended the government for accepting an alternative inheritance law drafted by Kikuhami and activists—a document, which could serve as constructive input in drafting the gender-sensitive inheritance law by the government.