Launched ‘NMB Afya Loan’ to boost health sector Daily News Reporter NMB Bank and Medical Credit Fund (MCF) have launched a health loan facility dubbed ‘NMB Afya Loan’ whereby the leading financial institution in the country will provide loans from 2m/- to 5bn/- while the latter while the latter provides a 50 percent guarantee on all the credits. Through the newly launched service, NMB Afya Loan, affordable loans will be provided to private hospitals, health centers, pharmacies, medical equipment suppliers and dispensaries. NMB becomes the first financial institution to partner with MCF in exploring and building capacity in the health sector. Speaking at the launch of the loan facility in the outskirt of Dar es Salaam on Tuesday morning, NMB Bank’s Chief of Retail Banking Filbert Mponzi said the program comes at the right time and will contribute to increasing access to affordable basic health care delivery and building sustainable health systems. The dual will work together to implement the healthcare financing, broaden and strengthen the quality of healthcare provision in the country. According to Mr Mponzi, beneficiaries will get access to working capital, asset financing and investment loans with Afya loan and will also receive technical assistance and advisory services. “This is yet another milestone for NMB Bank today. There is an immerse opportunity in the health sector and as NMB, we have seen and hereby commit ourselves in supporting hospitals, health centers, pharmacies and medical equipment suppliers. I believe this will contribute greatly in increasing access to affordable basic healthcare delivery,” said Mr Mponzi. On his side, the MCF Country Director, Dr Heri Marwa said the signing of MOU and roll-out is crucial in realizing its objectives of increasing access to affordable basic health delivery in Tanzania. “Access to investment capital has been a challenge in many African countries and impedes the provision of affordable health delivery,” said Dr Heri Marwa. NMB Bank is voted the best bank in Tanzania for seven consecutive years by prestigious Euromoney International awards and is also the leading bank in financing Micro Small and Medium Enterprises in Tanzania cutting across various sectors including the health sector.