YOU may call it ‘playing with fire’.This is precisely what young men usually do especially along Mandela Expressway and Kawawa Road in Dar es Salaam Region. To disregard the danger these young men may cause to other road users and property with their polythene bags or five-litre jerrycans containing fuel along public roads is to continue risking people’s lives. The young men often go for oil tankers stuck in a traffic jam or moving slowly and open oil tank drain valves to let fuel (petrol or diesel) flow from the oil tankers into their polythene bags so that they may go and sell it to prospective customers. Bizarre as it may seem, the dangerous activity goes on sometimes before the eyes of the police, oil tanker drivers and other motorists without taking any action against them. A survey conducted by ‘Sunday News’ shows that some mean-looking men wait for the oil tankers to slow down before they embark on the most dangerous mission. The targeted oil tankers are those travelling from upcountry regions to Dar es Salaam Port or those going to refill fuel after emptying it. The mission is to get the remaining fuel from the tanker. People, including experts, who spoke to ‘Sunday News’ at the weekend warned that if such trend was left unchecked, Dar es Salaam would one day witness a catastrophe of an unimaginable scale. Mr Hashimu Juma, who drives an oil tanker to Burundi, said these young men, who were normally equipped with mechanic tools such as spanner sets, opened fuel release valves to collect the little remaining fuel when the trucks slowed down or stopped in traffic jams before running away when the tankers started moving. But fuel experts said such habit should be stopped at all costs by the relevant authorities, including the police, for it could one day cause deadly explosions, consuming everything in the proximity with motorists in the traffic and the nearby property bearing the brunt. Energy and Water Utility Regulatory Authority (Ewura) Technical Manager (Petrol Section) Shaban Selemani warned that the possibility of an oil tanker to explode was high in case any spark of fire reached the opened fuel tanker’s valve. "After offloading fuel, the empty tanks are then filled with vapour, which is mixed with fuel, thus becoming even more dangerous in case it is exposed to fire. When the vapour from the tanker burns its consequences are horrendous,” he said. He thus said in the circumstances the risk of fire disasters loomed large as the country's roads accommodated smokers and other food vendors by the roadsides, as the fuel was improperly stored, so fire outbreaks might move from one vehicle to another. Mr Anthony Maswi, a petrol physicist engineer at the University of Dar es Salaam, said apart from possible tanker explosions, which rarely happened, there were other consequences. "Explosions tarnish the country's image and fuel spillages have detrimental effects on public roads and pollute the environment, water and air." Mr Maswi called for policy makers and media practitioners to help raise public awareness so that all members of the public could be sensitised and take precautions to avoid fatal consequences of such untoward habit. Sanzagi, is one of the young men involved in illegal fuel storage from empty tankers. He admitted to have been engaged in the forbidden mission at traffic lights at Kilwa Road and Mandela Road in Dar es Salaam, he said he would normally collect between 10 and 15 litres a day. Their customers are local cargo vehicles and town trip cars, which opt for cheaper fuel outside filling stations, where, a litre is sold at 700/- lower than the price at the petrol station. But for law enforcers, it is the duty of the drivers to abide by traffic rules and regulations. "Oil tanker drivers must ensure they abide by traffic rules and regulations, including safety measures and regularly undergo a defensive driving course,” said Superintendent Deus Sokoni, the head of Legal Unit at the Traffic Police Headquarters.