...explains why government prefers force account system over local contractors PRESIDENT John Magufuli said yesterday the government preferred force account over local contractors in execution of construction projects because of cost relief. The president condemned some contractors whom he accused of operating against their professional norms and the country’s laws and regulations by inflating construction costs. Addressing thousands of contractors, engineers and quantity surveyors who gathered for their general meeting in Dar es Salaam, Dr Magufuli cited the construction of 352 health centres for merely 184bn/- through the force account, saying the centres could have cost the government over 1tri/- through the use of local contractors. “If you were in my position, what would you choose at the time when as president you also have to build health centres, buy medicines and provide other social services,” queried Dr Magufuli. He said the major problem with local contractors is their whim for profit maximisation that compels them to almost double price estimates in each of the construction items. “In valuation, for instance, a bag of cement is estimated at 25,000/- while its actual market price is 12,000/-,” he stated, instructing the meeting to dwell on the issues and come up with lasting solutions. President Magufuli directed the Engineers Registration Board (ERB), Contractors Registration Board (CRB) and Architects and Quantity Surveyors Registration Board (AQSRB) to take harsh disciplinary and legal measures against companies flouting the regulations. “Deregister all engineers proving failure and ensure they don’t continue operating in the industry,” he ordered the boards. As the meeting focuses on deliberation on the role of the construction sector in the country’s industrialisation drive, President Magufuli said industrialisation relies on construction sector. He argued that good transport infrastructure facilitates smooth transportation of raw materials to industries and manufactured goods from industries to the markets. The water sector as well needs the construction sector to put in place water infrastructure. However, the president ordered effective adherence to the law that demands that all projects whose values are below 10bn/- be awarded to local contractors. He said the government had been contracting local contractors to execute several projects. The government allocated 267.7bn/- in the 2018/19 fiscal year for Tanzania Rural and Urban Road Agency (TARURA) to 1,068 projects under local contractors. In last financial year, the government allocated 278.13bn/- to TARURA and contracted local contractors to execute 408 projects. President Magufuli said there were several other big projects, which local companies had been involved, citing the construction of the eight-lane highway from Kimara to Kibaha. “We are determined to strengthen capacity of local contractors and retain the money paid to them in the country because local contractors, unlike foreigners, spend their profits here,” he argued. President Magufuli pledged that the government will work on all debts to ensure that they are paid but subject to verification.