GOVERNMENT has been urged to establish a minerals bank to control the price of Tanzanite and other minerals that have recently been on downward swings. The call was made here by the Tanzania Mineral Dealers Association (Tamida) as worries mount from stakeholders over specifically the trend tanzanite in the market, saying that tanzanite price has gone down for about 50 per cent. Tamida Secretary, Mr Benny Mutalemwa said the situation in the country was not good and has to be controlled before it is too late, and the best way as of now is to put in place such bank that will support traders in the sector. Mr Mutalemwa noted that once the prices go down, the bank would sustain the businesspersons by receiving and keeping the tanzanite and other minerals until such time that the prices would appreciate. He proposed that it is not necessary that the bank is established by the Central Government, but it could act to put in place strategies to establish the bank and convince stakeholders such as social security funds - Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF) and the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). He said the funds could as well enter a joint venture with the Government. The secretary said that Tamida believes that profits proceeding from huge investments that have been done by the funds or the former’s predecessors in buildings and other huge projects could be used to establish the bank. He said that the bank would also be helpful to traders and miners through offering credits, state-ofthe- art machines and mining equipment as well as business capital at modest security terms. Mr Mutalemwa mentioned another advantage of establishing the bank as being used as a link between local and foreign banks in payments and transporting payment documents as well as minerals outside the country, referring to international sale of goods. He said the system would be useful in terms of cash and minerals security, especially to local traders in exporting minerals and tanzanite while the Government would be assured to get its royalty and other taxes and charges in a simple manner. “If indigenous miners and businesspersons are afforded capital from the bank they will benefit much; their lives will be safeguarded as they will have modern machines and mining equipment, meaning that the number of locals in the sector will increase, controlling the foreigners, will be implementing the industrial policy, attracting tourists as well,” said the secretary. He said the logic behind encouraging more local miners and traders in the country is that the profit would be retained in the country, economy growing and the country and its people enjoy.  He also proposed for construction of a Conventional and Exhibition Complex Centre or Gemstone Market Centre that would be a catalyst to huge markets whereby mineral goods from all over the country would be available, improving the business and minerals sector, industries and tourism as are interdependent sectors. Acting Mining Officer in-Charge (Arusha) from the Ministry of Minerals, Mr Erick Robert, said he was not sure of the tanzanite price plummeting now, but said generally the value of minerals would be high, especially after the government constructed a wall around Mirerani in Simanjiro district in Manyara region