PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has warned water authorities countrywide against exploiting customers by issuing unjustifiable water bills, including exaggerated pricing, insisting that services offered and billing have to be reasonable. He directed the regional and district water authorities under the supervision of the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura), to ensure price review matched the actual situation and should not be hiked unreasonably. He said the government would take stern measures to the authorities that called for unit price review without justification to do so and thus make the majority of people miss water supply. Mr Majaliwa gave an example of his recent tour of Simiyu and Maswa, where there were complaints that the authorities had hiked the price from 5,000/-to 28,000/-. “Such price is unjustifiable and unrealistic as it is intended to deny people water supply. The government will not buy such changes and Ewura should intervene with an open mind,” he said. The PM issued the warning yesterday when he was responding to Ms Mariam Kisangi (Special Seats-CCM), who in her question wanted to know the measures taken against unjustifiable billing and unit price hiking in Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, Manyara and Tanga, among other regions. The PM said the water unit price should be affordable and reiterated the government’s commitment to ensuring it provided clean and safe water to citizens. He said the government would keep a close eye on water authorities to ensure they only charged what they were supposed to and not otherwise. He explained that the regional and district authorities must monitor the authorities as the government would not entertain the authorities that went against the provision of clean and safe water to all citizens. This was also shared by National Assembly Speaker, Job Ndugai, who said recently that the water authorities had been issuing bills that did not match the actual spending and called for action to curb the situation.