TAIFA Stars face uphill task in the away return leg in Omdurman after losing 1-0 to Sudan at the African Nations Championship (CHAN) match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. To advance to the final like they did in 2009, Taifa Stars must win by not less than two-goal margin to book a place in the finals to be hosted by Cameroon in 2020. Besides losing the game, Stars played and dominated in almost all 90 minutes, they failed to score against highly disciplined Sudanese defenders. Sudan who lost to Stars in their both away and home games in 2009, looked unwilling to be victims this time around. Just upon the start, Taifa Stars looked very hungry for the opener right from start, they made series of attacks at Sudan goal, but they were not lucky to score. The first attempt was in the 7th minute when Mzamiru shot a few inches off target a tap in ball from Ayub Lyanga. But, Sudan who played a cautious defensive game, responded quickly a minute later on counter attack, when striker Yassir Mudhamir Mahmoud feeble shot went far from the target. Another golden chance was squandered in the 16th minute when Iddi Suleiman failed to head home from a close range. The wastefulness continued in the second half with again Stars squandering countless chances. Taifa Stars were punished in the 60th minute when unmarked Yassir Mohamed scored an easy goal capitalising on Stars’ defensive laxity. Standing very close to the goal, the Sudanese striker received a long ball and fired a feeble shot that hit a crossbar with defenders looking paralysed. The rebound found him again and this time he coolly fired it home past Juma Kaseja. Taifa Stars who believed fully charged the battery to see off Sudan in yesterday 's game, fought tooth and nail for the equaliser, their attacks either ended at the hands of the Sudanese goalkeeper Alli Aboshren or cleared by the defenders. Taifa Stars, battling to win at home so that to put themselves in a comfortable situation in the reverse made serious attacks in the dying minutes but ‘wastefulness’ seemed to be their order of the day. Iddi Suleiman almost equalised it in the 88th minute when his powerful shot was saved by goalie Aboshren to an abortive corner. A minute later Hassan Dilunga saw his powerful shot going a few inches above the post to the dismal of the team’s supporters. Stars needed nothing but aggregate win over Sudan to guarantee their second appearance in CHAN finals set for Cameroon in 2020. The tournament is designed exclusively for footballers playing in their domestic league. Stars interim Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije, looked eager to emulate what former Stars coach Brazilian Marcio Maximo did in 2009, who guided Tanzania into the first edition of CHAN finals, which was staged in Ivory Coast. "It is tough as I want to play in this year’s CHAN" said goalie Juma Kaseja. “Although I have played several times for the national team, I was not lucky to be among the players, who were picked in the squad that competed in 2009 CHAN finals and the recent 2019 AFCON finals in Egypt and this is motivating me to see that we make into the next year’s CHAN finals,” he said. Stars saw off neighbours Kenya 4-1 on penalties after a barren draw in the two legged first round.