SIMBA SC striker, Meddie Kagere has scooped player of the month for August, following a string of impressive performance in the Mainland Premier League opening match against JKT Tanzania. The Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), through the Awards Committee has also picked Ruvu Shooting’s Head Coach, Salum Mayanga, the coach of the month for August. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the duo won basing on their impressive run at their club during the month. Simba kicked off their title defence campaign on a high note after posting a 3-1 victory over JKT Tanzania at the Uhuru Stadium on August 28th this year. Kagere scored a brace and Miraji Athuman netted the third from Kagere’s assist. Kagere won the August award after he out-shined his competitors— Lukas Kikoti of Namungo FC and Seif Karie of Lipuli FC, who were also shortlisted by the Award Committee. Coach Mayanga won the award after guiding his charges to register a 1-0 win over Y oung Africans. He saw off the challenge from Mecky Mexime of Kagera Sugar and Hitimana Thiery of Namungo. Meanwhile, after almost two weeks break, Mainland Premier League action is set to resume on Friday, with the attention pulling clash pitting defending champions Simba and Mtibwa Sugar. The two teams face off at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the round two of the top flight that came to a halt for two weeks to accommodate FIFA calendar. The Msimbazi Reds welcomes Mtibwa Sugar, after the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB), made some changes to the initial league fixture to accommodate Taifa Stars ahead of their vital Africa Nations Championship (CHAN), clash against Sudan. The match was initially set for next Tuesday. Going into the match, Simba will face their opponents without their key strikers--John Bocco and Meddie Kagere. Report from within the club had it that skipper Bocco, who picked a knock during the Community Shield game against Azam FC is still nursing injury. Kagere might also miss Friday’s game because he is currently with the Rwanda’s national football side, the Amavubi and yesterday night they hosted Seychelles, the Pirates at Stade de Kigali in the return leg of the FIFA World Cup Q atar 2022 preliminary round qualifier. In the first leg clash held in Seychelles, Kagere scored one of the goals in a 3-0 victory. It means that Simba will go into the match without a recognised striker. Simba and tactician, Patrick Aussems will have to deploy Deo Kanda as a ‘false nine’ and the Congolese is likely to partner with Ibrahim Ajib, Hassan Dilunga or Clatous Chama. Youthful, Miraji Athumani can as well play a striking role for Simba, as they seek to register the second consecutive win in the league. Mtibwa Sugar will be seeking a renaissance after stuttering start to the season in which they lost 3-1 to Lipuli FC in their league opener at the Samora Stadium in Iringa. After the Friday match, the league will continue on Saturday with the league newcomers Namungo FC hosting Singida United FC at the Majaliwa Stadium in Ruangwa District, while JKT Tanzania will battle it out with Lipuli FC at Isamuhyo ground in Mbweni on the outskirt of Dar es Salaam. The day will also see Mbao FC playing host to Biashara United at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. On Sunday, Ndanda FC will welcome Mwadui FC at the Nang'wanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara whereas Tanzania Prisons will face Ruvu Shooting at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, while Mwanza’s Alliance FC hosts their neighbours Kagera Sugar at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza.