TANZANIA is targeting to raise the number of tourists coming from China by threefold thanks to partnership with one of the world largest search engine— Baidu. The country last season received 32,773 tourists from China, but now target to raise the number to 100,000 after Tanzania Tourism Board (TTB) and Baidu signed the agreement in Dar es Salaam. This will happen after Baidu, the most famous searching engine in China, with over 700 million users, has recently introduced new project ‘Wonder Planet’ intended to visit seven countries to capture and share with its users tourist destinations in those countries, Tanzania being the only country from Africa. TTB Board Chairperson Judge (rtd) Thomas Mihayo told journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam that the remaining six countries are from America, Europe and Asia. “This visit is a mileage to Tanzania as far as attraction of tourists is concerned. And, since Baidu is widely recognized site and mostly visited by Chinese, we expect more tourists to visit our country,” he said expecting the number will reach 100,000 tourists from China. TTB and Baidu held a press conference yesterday before the latter departure to other countries to conclude their mission. Justice Mihayo said not only Tanzania received the respect for being the only African country, but also the first to be visited with the team. According to him, Baidu team of 11 members consists of photographers, writers and videographers arrived last month in the country for 10 days visiting and taking photos and videos of various tourist destinations. The chairman mentioned some of the areas where Baidu members visited are Bagamoyo historical town, Ngorongoro conservation area, Olduvai Gorge, Serengeti National Park, Lake Manyara, Mwanza City and Zanzibar. According to the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), has rated China among the leading tourist source market in the world. Last year over 130 million Chinese visited various countries in the world as tourists. Out of 130 million holiday- makers toured different parties in the world, Tanzania only record 32,773 tourists. TTB Managing Director, Ms Devota Mdachi identified China as one of the major tourist source market said their recently road show to the number of Chinese cities has started to bear fruits. “TTB has recently embarked on road show to china cities, a move to woo Chinese travellers and investors to Tanzania. And, now we can see the trips have started to paid-off,” she said, promised to continue strengthening their position into China market. The Baidu team leader was led by Ms Jin X iaping who praise the country’s hospitality and silversand beaches in Zanzibar coasts.