BIDDERS’ appetite for the 20 years Treasury bond auctioned on last week by the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) was high making the instrument to end the trading session oversubscribed. Through the debt instrument, the government wanted to raise 117bn/- but the amount tendered jumped to 295.40bn/- which is over two times the amount sought. Nevertheless, apart from the oversubscription the government retained only 117.02bn/- as successful amount. The government raises funds through the 20 years Treasury bonds and other debt instrument to fund the long term projects that will start generating income before the instrument matures. Some of the long term infrastructural projects that benefit from the funds include hydropower, roads, railways, bridges, ports, airports as well as social services like hospitals and schools. The implementation of the projects would stimulate business growth, contribute to improved living standards and the government collects more revenue. This is the fourth 20-year debt instrument to be auctioned this year and the sixth since when it was introduced in the market last year. High appetite continued to characterise all the sessions to oversubscription. According to BoT, stable exchange and inflation rates are among the major factors that make the 20 years treasury bonds to be attractive to investors. The 17.27 per cent coupon rate was offered in the 20-year instrument held on Wednesday slightly down compared to 17.35 per cent of the session held in July. The weighted average yield to maturity declined slightly to 17.34 per cent compared to 17.42 per cent of the previous session that took place in July. The yield rates in the 20 years Treasury bonds remain to be the highest than any other long term debt instrument auctioned since January this year. The number of bids received during the session were 345 and 324 emerged to be successful bids. The first session this year held on February saw retail investors emerging to be among the key investors. The institutional investors are commercial banks, pension funds, insurance companies and some microfinance institutions. The introduction of the 20- year instrument has widened investors’ options and investment opportunities in the debt markets alongside other government securities like the two, five, seven, 10 and 15 years bonds. Tanzania is the second in the East Africa region to have issued the 20 year debt instrument after Kenya that has been issuing it for a long time.