NATIONAL senior football side, Taifa stars have stepped up preparations ahead of their Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) 2 02 0 qualifiers for Central-East Zone against sudan on sunday. Stars will host Sudan in the first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam before they face off in the return leg at a venue to be announced later by the Confederation of African Football (CAF). According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo most of the players picked by interim coach Etienne Ndayiragije have reported in camp. “The team’s camp is in full swing and they commenced training sessions at Boko Veteran ground, plotting the Sudanese downfall,” said Ndimbo. On Monday, Ndayiragije summoned the 25 players, to form the team for the tournament strictly reserved for home based players. Ndayiragije has called Kagera Sugar custodian Saidi Kipao, who will be together with veteran goalie, Juma Kaseja from KMC and Metacha Mnata from Y oung Africans. Kaseja has become the number one goalkeeping choice after an impressive show against Kenya and Burundi. In both matches Tanzania won via penalty shooting. His brilliance steered in the match against Burundi earned Tanzania a 3-0 win which consequently gave the home team a ticket to play in the group stages of the FIFA 2022 World Cup Qatar. Already, Taifa Stars keeper, Juma Kaseja insisted that Tanzania have what it takes to go past Sudan in the next stage of Chan qualifiers following his team’s impressive performance which led to the defeat of Kenya in the contest. Taifa Stars needed penalties to beat Kenya 4-1 after a 0-0 draw in the return leg at Kasarani Moi Stadium to seal a clash against Sudan in the final stage of qualifications. The win was also a sweet revenge for Tanzania over their East African rivals, who had beaten them 3-2 in the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. “We fought very hard to win this game and it was made possible due to the strong unity which we had on the pitch,” Kaseja said shortly after beating Kenya. “As we aim to go further in this competition, this type of unity should continue to the benefit of us and the entire country.” Kaseja was the star man for Tanzania during the penalty shootout and believes they can beat Sudan to reach the finals. “We have a date with Sudan, not a bad team and all we need to do is to prepare well. We also have a good squad which can win so we are ready for them.” However, from the 25-strong named squad, others who have been dropped include Ibrahim Ajib of Simba and his team mate John Bocco both reportedly nursing injuries. Still, the new squad has been bolstered by new faces that include Bakari Nondo from Coastal Union and striker Miraji Athumani from Simba. The latter scored a winning goal for Simba in their 2-1 win over Mtibwa Sugar in the Vodacom Premier League (VPL), tie held recently in the city. The full list of selected players has goalkeepers Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata (Y oung Africans) and Saidi Kipao (Kagera Sugar). Defenders are Haruna Shamte (Simba), Boniface Maganga (KMC), Gadiel Michael (Simba), Mohamed Hussein (Simba), Kelvin Y ondani (Y oung Africans), Erasto Nyoni (Simba), Iddi Moby (Polisi Tanzania) and Bakari Nondo (Coastal Union). Midfielders are Jonas Mkude (Simba), Baraka Majogoro (KMC) Mohamed Issa (Y oung Africans) and Mudathir Y ahya (Azam). Strikers are Iddi Suleiman (Azam), Salum Abubakar (Azam) Frank Domayo (Azam), Mzamiru Y assin (Simba), Shaaban Iddi (Azam), Ayub Lyanga (Coastal Union) Abdulaziz Makame (Y oung Africans) Hassan Dilunga (Simba), Miraji Athumani (Simba) Feisal Salum (Y oung Africans)