AFTER two consecutive years of hosting national gold exhibition and expo, Geita region is preparing an international event that will bring together mineral stakeholders from around the world. This was revealed yesterday when Minerals Minister Doto Biteko who represented Vice- President Samia Suluhu Hassan was closing the second mineral exhibition and expo here. Minister Biteko’s revelation came in response to his Deputy Stanislaus Nyongo’s plea to have Geita Mineral Expo and Exhibitions focusing beyond the border to attract more international firms and other stakeholders to the country. This, according to the deputy, will enable miners and suppliers to learn advanced technology adding, “We think this can be hosted in Geita.” Speaking on the same issue, Geita Regional Commissioner Eng Robert Gabriel told mineral stakeholders and wananchi who gathered at Kalangalala grounds in Geita town that preparation of the third event is underway. He said, the third exhibition in Geita will be of international status and in the just ended event; some foreign companies took part, something he described as a good move. The RC thanked Geita Gold Mine (GGM) Company for its back to back sponsorship of the expo and exhibition and he said doors are still open for the anticipated international event in 2020. Geita’s mining sector is growing exponentially as it managed to record 504 kilos of gold on August, this year from below 200kg of the precious metal in almost two years ago. Closing the well-attended event, Minister Biteko said the opening of mineral centres in the country, Geita region being the champion, has brought revolution in the sector. Insisting “the country is not poor,” Biteko said “We’re late in establishing these markets.” He said, the region has been a success story not only within the country but beyond borders as US international media, CNBC has submitted a request for coverage of the Geita Gold Market. Mr Biteko said the country’s emphasis is on the “local content policy” in the sector in order to benefit local community around the resources which will subsequently eradicate poverty and steer economic growth. “Before government new policies in the industry, tomatoes and other vegetables were imported from South Africa, while our people were producing all these,” he said and added even employment of local people in big mines has increased to above 90 per cent. Meanwhile, Geita Business Community Chairman, Chacha Mwita Wambura said Geita International Gold Market has not only boosted income in district councils in the region but also reliable market of their minerals