SENIOR religious leaders from some Africa, Asia and European countries are scheduled to meet here for a conference on peace and stability. During the meeting, delegates will deliberate on among others their role in promotion of peace and stability towards making the world a better place for all, regardless of religious and ethnic differences. The conference that expects to attract over 70 senior leaders from Muslim, Jewish, Buddhism and Christian religions starts next Thursday with arrival of delegates and closes on September 23, 2019 at the Zanzibar beach resort. According to the conference organising committee Chairperson Shukuru Malonda from the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), protection of refugees and welcoming immigrants will be one of the topics for discussion. “Participants will also talk about human trafficking, a silent growing problem even in Zanzibar where people, including youth are sent abroad and abandoned without any assistance. We must unite against this practice,” Bishop Augustine Shao from the Roman Catholic said. Second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi is expected to grace the conference. The conference comes amid relatively increasing hatred to immigrants like the xenophobia in South Africa, ethnic hate in Myanmar (formerly Burma), conflicts in DRC, Yemen, Syria, Libya and different parts of the World. “We have the responsibility to talk and promote love. No place in the world should be in conflicts and hate. All problems can be resolved without bloodshed,” Sheikh Abdalla Talib Abdalla said. The participants are scheduled also to conduct a peaceful procession to promote peace and love. Despite attack on some priests and churches in 2012/2013, Zanzibar with Muslim majority is well known globally for a historical religious tolerance and participants will also tour historical sites here. “We want to maintain our good relations,” Bishop Shao said. Other leaders in the organizing committee are Father (Fr) Damas Mfoi from Catholic Church and the interfaith committee; Fr Nuhu Salanya from Anglican Church; Fr Gaudence Mushi, Catholic Church in Ngorongoro; and Sheikh Fadhil Soraga- religious Advisor in the Ministry of Constitution and Legal Affairs. Others are Rev Dr Kambale Kahongya, Mr Lusongo Mbilinyi and Rev Dr Jochen Motte (from Germany), all from the United Evangelical Mission (UEM) which is supporting the conference logistics in collaboration with Inter-religious Action for peace and Inclusive Communities’ and the host Zanzibar Interfaith Centre. Similar conference was held in Germany in 2017 and Dr Motte said the objective is to ensure all followers of religions across the globe work together, love and value each other and promote human right