OVER the years, microfinance models have proven to be among remedies for women economic empowerment, particularly in marginalized societies both in rural and urban settings. Majority of the people must have heard of microfinance, considering the pace at which the model is growing. According to Investopedia, microfinance, or microcredit, is a type of banking service provided to unemployed or low-income individuals or groups who otherwise would have no other access to financial services. Whereas some institutions go an extra mile to provide financial and business education, the goal of microfinance is to ultimately give impoverished people an opportunity to become self-sufficient. Women at Buza in Temeke municipality are a clear manifestation of the crucial role played by microfinance in improving livelihoods and supporting their income generation activities. With support from BRAC Tanzania microfinance program, over 195,000 people have been supported with small to medium size loans across 25 regions of Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar, with special focus placed on women. Vivian Elias (36), reveals how the loans obtained through BRAC microfinance have empowered women from her group who are now able to support their families and fund their children’s education. She noted that the loans have assisted the women, including herself, to establish small businesses like poultry farms, keeping livestock such as cattle and engage in petty trade. She went on to reveal that most of the women in her group which was established in 2018 have gone an extra mile to build houses by using the loans which came in piecemeal but today they live under their own roofs. “I personally have managed to send my children to an English medium school, whereas before it was difficult to raise even 100,000/- through my own means,” said Vivian when several staffs from the United States Congress recently visited the group. Considering the notable contribution the women are making in their households due to the income generation, their spouses have been very cooperative and supportive to their every move for more prosperity, as Vivian confirmed. “We have all the support from our husbands, reason being obedience and tipping them of every move taken in case things do not turn out as planned. “This has created a good foundation in our homes, now there are combined efforts in uplifting the family, and in turn it creates some sort of relief to them in meeting responsibilities,” she said. Another group member, Sophia Juma (46), said BRAC has opened them to embrace opportunities which are far from their normal realities. A standard seven leaver, she speaks with a lot of confidence, judging from the tone of her voice, on the aspirations she has for her five daughters. With great zeal, Sophia recounted her own ordeal and is now convinced that her daughters will not end up like her, noting that the programme has created big possibilities for her children to go to school. “I have five daughters, they are all in school, and some are in college while others are pursuing their secondary and primary education respectively. “I enrolled into the programme to support my children, I do not want them to experience a similar situation like mine, that is why am struggling for my children to have a better future,” added Sophia. The Professor of Gender and Development, Naila Kabeer in the article “How Can Microfinance Contribute to Women's Empowerment” disclosed that microfinance which offers financial services to women who have some prior experience of entrepreneurship and are not engaged in it for purely subsistence reasons, are likely to benefit greatly from microfinance activities, given the barriers they face in accessing formal financial institutions. The article also notes that for poor women who are struggling to get their enterprises onto a viable basis, financial services on their own are unlikely to be enough and may even end up plunging them into debt. “These women would need financial services as part of a larger package of supportive measures which address their human capital deficits, their unpaid domestic responsibilities and perhaps also lack of selfconfidence and fear of taking risks. “Economic empowerment may focus on building women’s opportunities, and their capacity to take advantage of these opportunities, but these efforts only really become empowering when they strengthen women’s capacity to take greater control over their own lives and exercise more influence within their communities,” said Prof Kabeer. However, the Manager of Fundraising and Resource Acquisition at BRAC Tanzania, Mr Wilson Chacha noted that similar groups are scattered across the country, saying this demonstrates the support that they have been providing to women. According to him, the reason they are targeting women for securing the loans is because of their faithfulness in meeting their financial obligations. Thus, the repayment rate surpasses 90 percent and the remaining is usually not met due to various challenges. He pointed out that the component is participatory in nature, through monthly meetings, where the groups meet to discuss challenges and come up with further plans as well as solutions in terms of entrepreneurship skills. The Associate Director, Global Policy and Government Affairs at Results and Results Educational Fund in Washington DC, Ms Crickett Nicovich said the delegation is visiting several activities and learn how the government is working to improve health in the country. “We are pleased to hear stories of how the women have improved their lives…we believe that when women are empowered, they also have good health and their children will be able to go to school, maintain improved lives and a better Tanzania. “What you are doing is very appealing, and we have learned a lot from you, we pledge to continue being with you when we go back to the US,” said Ms Nicovich. BRAC in Tanzania has become one of the largest providers of financial services in Tanzania. It has been able to show that microfinance can have a powerful impact on the lives of people in poverty through an innovative, client-focused and sustainable approach. The microfinance programme is a critical component of BRAC’s holistic approach to support livelihoods. Through reaching out to a large number of clients with cost-effective financial services and by addressing the needs of various target populations, such as rural women, adolescents, and small entrepreneurs, most people’s lives have improved. Small enterprise loans financially empower young entrepreneurs who do not have access to formal financial services. Small individual loans are being offered to business people who are less vulnerable than the microfinance group members. Most clients are now successfully running their businesses and generating employment opportunities for others. Higher economic benefits are indicated through single loans, placing less credit burden on other community members. Members who have successfully repaid their loans are able to expand their businesses by taking further loans, and BRAC also provides financial support and capacity building to help expand their clients’ businesses.