TANZANIA Wheelchair Basketball Association (TWBA) is in need of about 15m/-, to send both men and women teams at the forthcoming East African Zone V Wheelchair Basketball Championship. The zonal competition is scheduled to be held from October 17 to 20 this year in Nairobi, Kenya. TWBA Technical Director Azizy Mtogole said yesterday that they are grateful to receive invitation to send teams in the competition for the first time. “We have received invitation that will also see us making our maiden appearance in the event. It is an opportunity for us also to showcase what we have in store, as we are working hard towards development of the game,” he said, adding that they need support to be able to travel and take part in the event smoothly. Mtogole said that they are looking for about 15m/- to cover transport, food and accommodation and other expenses for 25 players and officials during the event. “We have already confirmed our participation for the same, but are yet to secure sponsors,” he said. He said that Tanzania has strong and talented players, who can compete at the top international stage but will need support to fulfill their targets. Mtogole said both teams are gearing up to showcase their skills at the event with their sight set to bring home titles. He appealed for the companies, institutions and sports well-wishers to come forward and support the teams, so that they can fly high Tanzania flag. He added that TWBA has received invitation after it was officially registered by National Sports Council (NSC) at the end of last year. The association is also an affiliate to the Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF). Mtogole said his association is grateful for those who already come forward and supported the teams so far. He said that they have received about 1.4m/- from Sanitas Hospital through Dr Omaga Edward, who was first to respond to their call and latest contribution came from Coach Phabian Mjarifu. “We appeal for basketball fraternity to come forward and support our national teams. We also request the government institutions, private institutions, companies and individual sports well-wishers to extend their support,” he said. He noted that the teams have started their preparation, ready for the competition. Tanzania will have to do it against other top teams including their East African Community (EAC) rivals Uganda, Rwanda and hosts Kenya.