THOSE following global news on their TV sets in the intervening period have come across reports about the decline of US-China exports and imports following US President’s declaration of “trade war” against the Peoples Republic of China in the last quarter of last year. But those figures by global news networks have not alarmed people in the developing world, because their relationship in terms of trade and other economic activities with China is as normal as ever. Life is as normal as ever with China, because nothing particularly spectacular has happened to China in the intervening period following the US President’s declaration of “trade war” with this world’s most populous country; Whose population is reputed to be as equal as to the whole continent of Africa. In this column at the end of last year, I quoted a commentary by the Chinese News Agency, Xinhua: “China has maintained a stable economic performance even after the Trump administration cracking down on Chinese enterprises to escalate trade frictions between China and the US.” It went on: “Through extreme crackdown, measures implemented by the Trump administration had, indeed, some impact on the Chinese economy but were not able to impede China’s economic development. “China has kept its economic performance within a proper range with an increased GDP growth rate of 6.4 per cent–remaining unchanged from the fourth quarter of last year,” commented Xinhua in the wake of American sanctions against China. What appears to make China victorious from the American leader’s trade war is its consistent adherence to its opening up policy and “win-win” agenda in the global economy, becoming the biggest global exporter and second biggest importer in the world, according to global economic reports on China. Recently, China held its international import Expo that drew over 400,000 participants across the world. Companies, which are foreign invested in China, have increased by nearly 70percent, with the country approving a law to protect foreign investments in its territory. According to United Nations studies, the Chinese economy has grown at an annual average rate of 9.5 per cent. Today, China appears to have bid farewell to problems that had hitherto affected its people once rooted in poverty. In the words of Chinese leader, President Xi Jinping while addressing a high level meeting of his party to mark the 40th anniversary of the country’s reforms and opening up agenda, China has continuously improved the country’s “socialism ideology with Chinese characteristics”. Other landmarks of China’s development includes, according to the Chinese leader: Adherence to peoplecentered development Faithfully adhering to Marxism ideology Sticking to Socialism with Chinese characteristics Taking development of the people of China as first priority and opening up to the world beyond. But as China was re-examining itself on its present and way forward in terms of development, being the world’s second leading economy is winning the applause of most people in the developing world, there was a surprisingly negative attack by the world’s unipolar power, the United States of America led by its President, Donald Trump. As most level-headed people know, the developing world has, by and large, taken China as a partner in development; Appreciative of its non-conditional aid and win-win stance in development cooperation. China has a very good record in terms of development cooperation with Tanzania and other countries in Africa as a case in point. There has been no complaint from any African country or others in the developing world that make Africa captive to Beijing’s wishes and demands as some western business interest groups allege from time to time. But comparatively, this has not been the case with the US. Recently, there was a report to the effect that the Trump administration has announced a sharp refocus of its Africa strategy to counter what it called the “predatory” practices of China and Russia which are “deliberately and aggressively targeting their investments in the region to gain a competitive advantage.” According to that report, one American national security adviser, John Bolton had laid out a new strategy aimed at China accusing it of “bribes, opaque agreements and the strategic use of debt to hold states in Africa captive to Beijing wishes and demands”. According to this report, critics of the Trump administration are skeptical because it has taken two years into the Trump presidency to announce the Africa strategy, and the President is well known for his disparaging remarks about the African continent that is home for 1.2 billion people. A top US official is quoted to have commented then: “The United States will no longer provide indiscriminate assistance across the entire continent. Countries that repeatedly vote against the United States in international forums, or take action counter to US interests, should not receive generous American foreign aid.” So, this is the world we are in! But African people and others in the developing world know the terrain they are in and know what to expect. But given its history and deeds, especially its win-win agenda with the developing world, China can be sure of a positive relationship with Africa and the developing world in general. African people know which power is the largest beneficiary of economic globalisation, stirs up trade disputes, rebuffs interdependence and is a lone wolf with unilateralism and protectionism as its credo. African people know which powers in the world determine prices for their agricultural products and other natural resources and this is certainly not China! makwaia@spicenet. co.tz” makwaia@spicenet. co.tz; wakuhenga@gmail. com