TANZANIA Standard (Newspapers), Limited (TSN) and Coast Regional Commissioner’s Office yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), on Business and Industrial Investment Forum scheduled to take place between the 1st and 7th of October, this year. According to the Coast Regional Commissioner (RC), Eng. Evarist Ndikilo, the event will also involve a number of exhibitions. Both the forum and exhibition are aimed at promoting the available investment opportunities in region, with the RC revealing the presence of many untapped opportunities in various sectors--including agriculture, tourism, fishing and industries among other areas. On industry, the RC affirmed that the region has been doing well especially in the production of building materials and fruit processing, adding that: “But, we do admit that we are not yet doing well in food crops processing. It is our expectation that the Forum will motivate investors to invest in such an area. We are targeting to have about 500 exhibitors and roughly 100,000 participants,” he said. According to him, the region has lots of beach areas, suitable for installation of tourist hotels, calling upon both local and foreign investors to grab the opportunities. There are also various areas for agriculture purposes, including over 150,000 acres of land around the Rufiji Hydropower project, which is suitable for irrigation farming, especially sugarcane. Some embassies including the Kuwait Embassy in Tanzania have already shown interest to invest in sugarcane irrigation farming, to make the product abundantly available in the country, the RC said. Rufiji area is also suitable for palm oil, rice and sunflower farming, said Eng. Ndikilo, insisting that many more Tanzanians from across the country attend the exhibitions to have more information on the opportunities. According to the RC, apart from promoting available investment opportunities, the Forum and exhibitions will also help in market search as the event will connect local and foreigner traders. TSN Sales and Marketing Manager, Mr Januarius Maganga who represented the company’s Acting Managing Editor, Ms Tuma Abdallah, said that the company will use the experience it gained from other nine forums it has conducted in other regions, to make the one in Coast Region a historical event. Simiyu, Mwanza, Geita, Tabora, Tanga, Shinyanga, Arusha, Lindi and Zanzibar are among areas which benefited from forums coordinated and supervised by TSN, said Mr Maganga.