TANZANIANS have been urged to tap investment opportunities in Kilimanjaro Region as the number of tourists visiting the country is constantly on the upward trajectory. By investing in the region, which is home to Africa’s highest mountain – Mount Kilimanjaro, local entrepreneurs will reap benefits from, among others, tourism earnings from sightseers visiting the region and the northern zone that has a lot of tourist attractions. The Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Ms Anna Mghwira (pictured), said here that Kilimanjaro has few investments in the tourism sector and it is high time that locals tap the opportunities brought by tourism as well as strengthened State airline. She was speaking during an event to launch and introduce new services at Moshibased Eastpoint Hotel. “Due to the fact that the government and other stakeholders have been marketing Tanzania in recent years, the number of tourists has continued to grow every day. Therefore, may I urge local investors to come out and invest more in the tourism industry in Kilimanjaro Region,” she said. Ms Mghwira noted that there are many investment opportunities in Kilimanjaro region as far as the tourism sector is concerned. She said that there is huge demand for accommodation facilities that she said if utilized by introducing new hotels, improve those available coupled with hospitality would attract more tourists and boost the region’s economy and that of the nation at large. On the newly introduced services at the Eastpoint Hotel, Ms Mghwira said the move by the hotel management was a clear evidence of a team which has a vision meant to improve the quality of its services, whenever business circumstances demanded such changes. “For example, the introduction of an elevator in this multistory tourist accommodation facility would enable you get more clients including those who were attracted to it at the first place, but hesitated to call you just because of the lack of this important service,” she said. The hotel’s Managing Director, Mr Rashid Adam, said that the management introduced new services so as to meet the demands of all types of visitors from inside and outside the country. “This investment is meant to improve the economy of the region as well as that of the tourism sector in general. Therefore, we decided to improve our services by introducing new products including different types of globally recognized cuisines and the elevator service so as to attract more clients from different countries, worldwide and therefore improve the tourism sector,” he said.