WORLD Health Organisation (WHO) yesterday dismissed as baseless claims that it issued a statement on the presence of Ebola in Tanzania. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation summoned WHO Country Representative Dr Tigest Ketsela Mengestu in Dar es Salaam over allegations that the UN agency had accused the government of refusing to share information on suspected Ebola cases. In the talks with Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Damas Ndumbaro, Dr Mengestu was quoted as saying, “WHO did not say that there are Ebola cases in Tanzania…I would like to refute the statement saying that there is Ebola. The statement did not come from WHO—be it the headquarters, regional or country offices.” She said there was no evidence of Ebola and WHO didn’t issue any statement on the disease outbreak in Tanzania. Dr Mengestu said should the agency need more information from the government, there are formal procedures, which have been outlined in various relevant authorities and approved by the government. The Government’s Spokesperson Dr Hassan Abbas recently posted on his Twitter page that some local and international media had quoted WHO, saying the Tanzanian government had refused to share information on a person alleged to have died of Ebola. In the report, the media quoted WHO as saying that transparency and speed in the fight against the deadly Ebola viruses were of critical importance to control outbreaks, which have been declared the global health disaster. The alleged WHO statement—by some local and international media— claimed that there was an Ebola victim in Dar es Salaam who died on September 8 , 2 019 . However, WHO on September 14 confirmed to have received information from the government that there was no any Ebola victim in the country. Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu on the same day—September 14—refuted circulating rumours on Ebola outbreak in the country, assuring that the government had intensified preventive measures against the deadly disease. She urged Dar es Salaam residents to remain calm, saying so far there was no Ebola patient reported in the country. The minister explained that rumours on the viral disease outbreak circulating on social media emanated from two patients who were suspected to have contracted the disease but tests by the ministry showed that they were negative. “The ministry took samples of the two patients for testing and it was satisfied that they had no Ebola virus...I insist that so far there is no patient who has been confirmed to have contracted Ebola virus in the country,” she noted. Ms Mwalimu warned that it’s illegal for any person to announce the outbreak of any disease in the country because the authority to do so was vested in her ministry. She maintained that the government has been taking preventive measures since the viral disease was reported for the first time in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in August, last year. As of August, this year, 3,09 9 patients had been confirmed to have contracted the deadly disease in DRC, she said. “We have been taking various preventive measures—strengthening disease coordination and monitoring through health experts in the regions—to ensure the disease does not cross over to Tanzania. The minister added that the government through the health ministry has purchased and distributed 2 ,7 00 sets of personal protective equipment for medics in all regions—Kigoma, Kagera, Mwanza, Rukwa and Katavi—which border DRC and are at higher risk of contracting the disease.