REGIONS should begin setting budgets for construction of basic infrastructure for water supply, roads and electricity to areas set aside for investments, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (Investments), Angellah Kairuki, has said. She said in Parliament yesterday that setting aside budgets for basic infrastructure development would help to attract investments from domestic and foreign investors which are crucial for creating jobs and trade opportunities. The minister said local government authorities should work closely with government institutions dealing with investments promotion for joint strategies for identifying investment opportunities for domestic and foreign investors. She was responding to a question from Mwanne Mchemba (Special Seats, CCM) who wanted to know whether the government was ready to direct investors to put up investments in Tabora Region. The minister said setting up budget for developing basic infrastructure would speed up development of special investment areas which will attract investments and participation of the private sector in the development of the areas. She said local government authorities should prepare projects and investment opportunities and work with Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) to prepare business investment forums in the regions. The Minister said the government’s  intention was to promote investments in various sectors and build a semi-industrial economy. She commended Tabora and other regions for implementing strategies for investment promotion which include organizing business and investment forums. Tabora organized a business and investment forum late last year in collaboration with Tanzania Standard Newspapers Limited, the publisher of this newspaper and Habari Leo. The minister said through the forums, the government has been encouraging district councils to prepare strategic projects which would be a model for other investors. She said Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) data show that  55 investment projects had been registered in Tabora in agriculture, industries, construction, tourism, communication and transportation.