INSPECTOR General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro yesterday condemned some police commanders whom he accused of rampant corruption, misconduct and personal grudges against each other. Speaking at the Police Officers mess in Dar es Salaam during law enforcers’ selfevaluation meeting, IGP Sirro faulted some who “Behind my back denounce me as unfit for the job. “Rumours are rife with some of you claiming that I am unfit for the post but I have been appointed, this is not a self-appointing position and we cannot have more than one IGP,” he fumed. The police chief asked all commanders to focus on their duties and leave performance legacy behind instead of orchestrating hatred and embracing hypocrisy. “Let’s perform our duties and leave behind enviable legacy instead of investing on hatred, hypocrisy and mischief. Why do we hate each other…my life is short, why should I hate another person. I won’t be IGP forever, someday someone else will take over…it’s high time we embarked on succession plan to pave way for the youth to take over,” he counselled. IGP Sirro warned police commanders against rampant corruption especially in traffic department, moral decay and misconduct. He particularly cited Dar es Salaaam Special Zone Police Commander Lazaro Mambosasa and Dodoma Regional Police Commander Gilles Muruto whom he warned against prejudices. “You display suspects in public while the courts of laws have not sentenced them and they are still mere suspects, this is unfair and against justice because they can sue you once the courts free them,” he argued. Commander Sirro cautioned policemen over cybercrimes, saying some officers in uniforms were spearheading the commission of the crimes instead of fighting them. “Most police officers cannot conduct investigations on cybercrimes because they are not conversant with the technology but despite this challenge regional police commanders and regional crime officers are doing nothing to address the anomaly,” he stated. The IGP directed the law enforcers to have in place an action plan towards the local government and general elections to address emerging challenges and refrain from repeating past mistakes.