THE Mainland youthful side, Ngorongoro Heroes completed their group B campaign of CECACA U-20 Challenge Cup with a high note; they mercilessly clobbered Zanzibar 5-0 FUFA Technical Centre in Jinja, Uganda yesterday. However, Zanzibar have also sailed to the quarter final stage despite the yesterday loss as they finished third with three points while Ethiopia, who suffered a 4 -0 blitz to hosts Uganda limped out of the tournament point-less. Heroes and Kenya have tied at the group’s B top with seven points each having scored 11 goals and conceded 9 after playing three matches. The 2-1 victory over Ethiopia helped Zanzibar claim a ticket to play in the top eight stage of the tournament. The five-goal thriller saw Heroes taking an early lead in the 5th minute through Lusajo Mwaikenda. The goal remained unanswered until the end of the first half. It took Heroes six minutes after resumption to double their lead through Kelvin John in the 51st minute. Novatus Dominic converted the third goal for Heroes in the 67th minute while the fourth goal came from Kelvin John in the 90th minute and sealed a hattrick in the stoppage time. Earlier at the same venue Kenya Under-20 team beat Ethiopia 4 -0 in their final Group B match. The Kenya team had already sealed qualification following their opening 5-0 win over Zanzibar coupled with a 2-2 draw against Tanzania, and all they needed was cap it off in style to ensure a top spot finish. Steve Otieno, who was brought in the first half in place of Chris Owino, broke the deadlock a minute before halftime with a fine left-footed finish for a 1-0 score as the teams headed back to the changing rooms. Austine Odhiambo then made it in the 68th minute, with the Ethiopian side starting to show signs of withering. The goal was capped with two more strikes by second-half substitutes John Njuguna and Benson Omala in the 75th and 84th minutes as the Rising Stars finished the job in style. The quarters have been scheduled for Monday. In group A the hosts Uganda have finished top in group A followed by Sudan and Eritrea while Burundi and South Sudan have qualified from group C. Eleven countries out of the 12 CECAFA member nations are engaged in the ongoing championship and these include hosts Uganda, Sudan, Eritrea, Djibouti, Kenya, Ethiopia, Zanzibar, Tanzania, Burundi South Sudan and Somalia.