has encouraged African electoral bodies to adopt and use electronic voting systems, which are suitable and COMMONWEALTH Parliamentary Association (CPA) Africa regioncredible means of electing people’s representatives. The association preferred the electronic systems over manual papers, which are the mostly widely used system of electing representatives globally, particularly in Africa, mainly due totechnological backwardness. But, recently there has been increasing voices in favour of evoting systems in major elections and the 50th CPA Africa Region Conference which climaxed in Zanzibar on Wednesday added weight to the calls. “We encourage electoral bodies in Africa to adopt e-voting systems in terms of biometric registration of voters, electronic tallying, collection and broadcast of election results,” CPA Resolutions Committee Chairperson Sarah Adwoa Safo said as she presented the resolutions. The Ghanaian Minister for Procurement told the conference that the adoption and use of electronic voting will enhance free, fair, transparent and credible elections in Africa. The regional parliamentary body also urged African parliaments and governments to deepen the concept of edemocracy by encouraging its precepts as e-petition, evoting and e-campaigns. The conference also stressed on the use of information and communication technology in strengthening public involvement in the legislative process, urging lawmakers to create online networks. Efficient use of twitter, facebook, Skype, WhatsApp, blogs and YouTube platforms as well as effective utilisation of digital tools and gadgets are of paramount importance among legislators in the modern era to ensure maximum participation of their constituents, Ms Safo said. “We urge African parliaments to adopt social media platforms to solicit feedback on government policies, projects and programmes as well as provide opportunity for citizen’s mobilisation and sensitisation,” she added. On the other hand, the CPA underscored the need for parliaments across the continent to enact legislations to regulate all electronic communications systems with the view of curbing the menace of cyber crimes and abuse of digital tools in the spirit of protecting citizens and promoting democratic values. The CPA Africa region conference, which attracted about 400 participants, including speakers, deputy speakers, MPs and senators had the theme: E-Parliament; Seamless Platform for Facilitating Democracy.