AS the second phase of the productive social safety net (PSSN II) which is being coordinated by the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) is around the corner, more emphasis has been placed on building capacity for beneficiaries to acquire entrepreneurial and business skills. Such strategy aims to ensure that the beneficiaries’ engage fully in production activities which include establishing sustainable income generating activities such as small scale industries and businesses within their areas. The focus is to further strengthen the poor household abilities to maintain their living conditions in times of shock and when the time comes the programme has to end they do return into their former states. Besides, the programme executed under TASAF III will maintain all its other components like conditional cash transfers (CCT), improving livelihoods and the public works programme (PWP). Recently, when the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (Health) Dr Dorothy Gwajima made an official tour in the Coast Region to visit TASAF implemented programmes, she urged local government official countrywide to intensively embark on awareness raising campaigns on the anticipated programme. Dr Gwajima called upon the officials to closely collaborate with TASAF in making sure that people are well aware of the programme, the necessary preconditions so that when the time for enrolling beneficiaries comes, the intended groups marginalized groups are reached. The programme which is expected to commence soon will cover all villages across the country compared to the current one which only covers 70 per cent of targeted villages. As for the TASAF coordinators, she urged them to closely work with officials in grassroots level. Dr Gwajima wanted public officials to preach about the programme wherever they go so as to complement the government’s efforts and help Tanzanians get out of poverty line. “The government is committed to fighting poverty in all its forms by making sure that it becomes a thing of the past through making sure all Tanzanians live a decent life and forget all the huddles...this will be achieved if all officials will work as a team in pushing the TASAF agenda in their meetings and plans,” she said. Dr Gwajima who is also a Member of the TASAF national steering committee revealed that the goal lift poor people out of abject poverty so as to push further the country’s agenda of becoming middle income country by the year 2025. According to the Deputy PS, regional and districts councils should make sure that all their interventions are in line with TASAF programmes in complementing government initiatives in the fight against poverty among its people. She, however, noted that the TASAF is among key programmes if well executed will improve the lives of several millions of poor children and youth thus breaking out the poverty cycle. The Deputy PS further cited issues such as improved access to health care, school enrolment increased nutritional levels among beneficiary households, among other gains something which should be commended. She wanted extension officers to penetrate to the rural areas to visit and educate TASAF beneficiaries on better agricultural practices, poultry and livestock keeping. “Extension, nutritional, social welfare officers have to wake up, get out of their offices and go to villages to educate the poor households on different things which will enable them improve their lives and get out of poverty,” she added. Presenting an implementation report, TASAF Coordinator for Coast region, Ms Asha Itewele said that through the PSSN II programme, beneficiaries participate in public works such as putting up infrastructures in the area of education, health and water to improvesocial services and earn extra- income through the wages they receive after work. Ms Itewele observed that TASAF do not only provide funds but also link them to income generating activities which has enable beneficiaries to establish community savings and investments groups as a result of the grants received from the programme. She added that poor families have received support, students are able to attend school as well as obtain basic social services, including health care, while others have been able to establish small-scale projects, breaking the poverty cycle. “The Tasaf programme has also brought indirect benefits whereby communities of different ideologies have kept aside their differences and work together with the aim of eradicating poverty within their areas,” she said. Among other benefits include the household are able to access three meals a day, a proper roof under their heads unlike their previous situations whereby most of them lived very miserable lives. “A total of 30,347 poor households from 325 villages in the region have benefited from 28.9bn/- disbursed by TASAF from January 2014 to February 2019,” Ms Itewele revealed. However, the support the beneficiaries have been receiving has allowed most of them to engage in activities such as poultry and livestock keeping, farming, tailoring and other small scale income generating activities thus improving their lives. A beneficiary Fatma Sheria (70) disclosed that since she started receiving the funds from TASAF, she has been able to build a modern house roofed with iron sheets as well put up a small business to support her. Dr Gwajima was encouraged with progress which has been made by the beneficiaries in utilizing the small resources to lift up their lives. “This is what we want to see, witnessing poor people getting out of poverty. This is what the government wants TASAF beneficiaries to be…for them to be able to utilize properly the funds given to them is very appealing,” she said. Mr Andrew Kibona who represented the TASAF Executive Director during the tour pointed out that the forthcoming phase will incorporate all villages across the country thus calling upon the general public to come out in big numbers whenever they are informed on TASAF meetings in respective localities. He said that as the country embarks on the implementation of the second phase of the productive social safety net (PSSN) programme; TASAF has designed to reach the 30 per cent in streets and Shehia which were not reached due to limited resources. He also observed that more efforts will be put in the provision of entrepreneurial and business skills to enable its beneficiaries’ engage fully in production.