DETERMINED to advance the country’s aviation industry and boost tourism, the government through Tanzania Government Flight Agency (TGFA) yesterday inked another deal with Airbus for purchase of two new A220- 300 planes. Speaking at the signing ceremony in Dar es Salaam, TGFA Chief Executive Officer Dr Benjamin Ndimila said the envisaged new procurement brings to eight the total number of new government purchased aircrafts. Dr Ndimila said that another Dreamliner is expected in the country next month and Bombardier Q-400 will arrive in November, this year to enhance the aviation industry. “We are making history in our country, thanks to the government’s resolve to improve the aviation sector,” he said. Airbus Vice President Sales for Sub-Sahara Africa and Indian Ocean Islands Hadi Akoum commended the Tanzanian government, describing the purchase as an excellent plan for the country to develop the aviation sector, which he said plays a critical role in the national economy. He reaffirmed the aircraft manufacturer’s commitment to continually partner with the government to boost the air travel sector and promote tourism. “Our partnership has just started with Air Tanzania (Company Limited) and government in general to ensure that Tanzania offers excellent and high quality air travel services across the border,” he said. Mr Akoum noted that there is a huge demand of Airbus planes and it takes about one year and a half to manufacture. Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) Managing Director Engineer Ladislaus Matindi said the flights will help in boosting tourism, businesses and investment in the country as well as connect Tanzania with neighbouring countries. “We have seven overseas centres, which will continue to improve their services to integrate Tanzania with neighbouring countries,” he said, the national airline moves in line with President John Magufuli’s drive to revive air transport and boost ATCL operations. He said ATCL remains confident of its capacity to regain its supremacy as a serious competitor in the air transport market. ATCL fleet and network expansion programme include destinations in Africa, Europe, Asia and US. Air Tanzania serves several international destinations, including Comoro, Burundi, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Zambia and India. Air Tanzania also operates in ten domestic destinations from its hub at the Dar es Salaam’s Julius Nyerere International Airport. The company is also set to start flying to China by the end of this year.