MASWANYA Village in Uyui District has made strides as area residents will now be able to get clean and safe water by more than 50 per cent thanks to a project funded by JTI Leaf Services Tanzania. This was revealed during the Uhuru Torch race in the village where the race leader, Mzee Mkongea Alli, launched a project. He commended the company for investing over 60m/- in drilling a 147-metre deep borehole and installation of solar pumping system to supply water for the area residents. Mr Alli said the quality of the project was satisfactory and the Uhuru Torch race approved it and declared that the area residents can use the water after reviewing the water quality certificate produced by TUWASA. “JTI has been complementing the government’s efforts in not just ensuring people get clean and safe water, but for also investing back to communities by building schools, dispensaries and so on,” he said. He said more than 2500 people will benefit from the project, which is quite remarkable as previously clean and safe water was available by 22.5 per cent, but will now be available by 52 per cent. The Rural Water and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) Manager, Eng Godfrey Shibiti, who was speaking on behalf of the Uyui District Commissioner, Gift Msuya, said the borehole is 147m deep and water is pumped using solar energy. He said the village had formed a committee comprising eight people and two technicians who will be responsible for running the project and ensuring that necessary maintenance was carried out on a regular basis to ensure the project was sustainable. This project is in line with Sustainable Development Goal Number 6 – Access to clean water and sanitation and Goal Number 7 – access to affordable, reliable and sustainable energy. A solar powered piped water distribution project will contribute to the reduction of carbon footprint in the community. The Tabora Urban MP, Almasi Maige, also lauded JTI for being on the frontline in social investment projects in Uyui and other districts. The launch was attended by hundreds of Maswanya residents and others from neighbouring villages.