BANKERS have created the first common code of conduct to self-governor the sector while the industry recovers from bad loans trend in almost 25 years after forming their association. The lenders, under their umbrella of Tanzania Bankers Association (TBA), have come up with a common code to increase customers trust and create a fair playing field to bring positive competition. The Minister for Finance and Planning Dr Philip Mpango said the code of conduct should be used by all financial institutions to encourage positive growth in the economy. “TBA code of conduct should be adopted by all financial institutions in the country…and translate it to Kiswahili and distribute to all,” Dr Mpango issued the directive while launching the document over the weekend. Dr Mpango, a World Bank economist, said the government is full committed to support the growth of the financial sector and the institutions should adhere to the banking laws and regulations. The 14-page booklet shows that the governing council may impose sanctions to a member for violating the code of conduct namely warning, censure, suspension and reporting to the regulator. The BoT Governor Prof Florens Luoga said the idea is to build a strong banking sector that could spearhead the country development agenda. “We want a strong sector that increases trust to wananchi,” Prof Luoga said. TBA Chair Abdulmajid Nsekela said before coming up with the code, which has been blessed by BoT, each member had self-regulations, which was difficult to implement. “This single document meant to enable the sector to grow and develop accordingly,” Mr Nsekela, who is also CRDB bank Managing Director, said during the launch of the code. The code of conduct derived the rules and obligation from central bank supervision regulations and going against the document the institute or person breach TBA members’ agreement. TBA Executive Director Tusekilege Mwaikasu said some banks have their own code and are advised to use the association document as a benchmark. “The aim is to build a positive competitive and high disciplined sector,” Ms Mwaikasu said. Some of the codes of conduct obligations out of almost 30 to be fulfilled by the TBA members include providing services to customer in complete and timely manner, adopt measures to fight against corruption, money laundering and financing terrorism and adhere to the honesty principle in their relationships with customers, employees, shareholders and other members of general public. The obligations to be fulfilled by employees include not abusing ones position and taking advantage to enrich oneself, offer unbiased and fair treatment to customers receiving same services and inform their customers about the benefits and risks of their products and services offered. The country has 53 banks of which 31 are controlled by foreigners, 17 by locals and five state owned entities. The banks have 837 branches of which 33 per cent are in Dar es Salaam. TBA was established in 1995 as a main advocacy body for the banking sector guided by the mission and brings together members of the banking fraternity in order to have a common goal.