TANZANIA Breweries Limited (TBL), Group yesterday held its 46th Annual General Meeting (AGM), demonstrating reliance and encouraging performance despite tough operating environment in the year 2018. The company registered 210bn/-profit compared to 107bn/- recorded in nine months in 2017. During the reference period, shareholders were paid 206bn/-, pocketing 700/-per share. TBL Board Chairman, Cleopa Msuya told shareholders that the management continues with efforts to return the business back to growth and deliver margin improvements through increased focus on cost efficiencies. “The management focuses at increasing investment in our core brands and capital expenditures, to establish the right organizational set up and build capabilities of employees to support this growth towards our long term ambitions,” he said. He added, “We expect to continue with our dream of making TBL the most aspirational company in East Africa.” Furthermore, he said TBL Group continued to be one of the largest tax payers in the country, making significant contributions to the government revenue in form of corporate income tax, excise duty and value added tax (VAT). During the period under review, 504bn/-was paid to the government during the year, compared to 430bn/-in the previous year. The last financial year has been challenging to the business and the industry with the company sales and distribution channels heavily disrupted by heavy rains particularly the distribution lines, sales channels and limiting consumption hours along the way all over the country during the second quarter. The beer business volume declined by 0.3 per cent versus prior period, wines and spirits grew by 8.2 per cent, as the cycled effects from the sachet ban from the previous year. The Tradition African Beer declined by 64.4 per cent as a direct consequence of an average 25 per cent price increase on Chibuku products to cover operational costs. He said that TBL Group continues to support communities around the country through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), programmes where during the year partnered with Kilimanjaro Project to donate 100,000 US dollars to plant 100,000 trees on the slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro.