DODOMA must not necessarily be Paris, Miami, Amsterdam, New York and London; you name it to be classified as the capital city of Tanzania. But in its own style, nature and setting, it is remarkably a unique and special area, complete with among other things, grapes which make it different from other cities in the world. And as I recall the special grapes, I recall also Jacques Roumain a Haitian writer, politician, and advocate of Marxism, who was considered as one of the most prominent figures in Haitian literature designing a wise saying: ‘you cannot eat a cluster of grapes at once, but it is very easy if you eat them one by one.’. However, a question lingers ‘how does grapes make Dodoma so different?’ Well, this may sound a difficult question for many especially, who live in the city and are used to the fruit. Indeed many who may wish to answer this question would, I believe, be asking questions such as whether Dodoma grapes already have made the city a business hub for Africa, Europe and beyond. Historically, vines are believed to have been introduced in Dodoma region in 1940, traditionally known, by missionaries. After independence the local government took interest in the industry and made their first investment into a four-acre grape farm at Dodoma Isanga Prison 1961. We read that the program was very successful and in just three years expanded to five nearby villages around the prison. In 1963, the national service camp in Makutupora also joined the scheme and began growing grapes in the village that created a new centre for grape growing around the village. It was in 1969 when the government entered the market with the formation of the Dodoma Wine company and now, grapes are one of the major fruit crops of economic importance in Tanzania. So our capital is therefore hosted in the region identified by large-scale grape farming and wine industry in the country. Exclusively important is Makutupora, a local grape variety named after an in the Dodoma Region where it is grown. Makutupora is a local dry red grape growing in dry earth, sandy soil with low humidity. Apart from Dodoma producing wine, which has many uses, the sweet red, pink, orange, yellow, dark blue crimson, black or green fruit, which has for long been associated with royal, religious, ceremonial and traditional rites in medieval Europe and other places, for the Dodoma natives the crop has also helped to empower local growers economically as well as boosting the region’s economy. Interestingly, there are two harvests seasons a year. It is in March and August/September. In fact we read that although Tanzanian wine industry have not, for some decades, had much international recognition, but it is the second largest producer of wine in Sub-Saharan Africa after South Africa. So while we wait to see Dodoma fully and well connected to other parts of the world, and knowing that Dodoma is still in the making with no trains and rapid transport buses to anywhere that someone would want in the city, let us wait for it to become a fully-fledged city. At the moment let us remember the grapes of Dodoma. To ignore our Dodoma grapes is to be unfair to our city and it is wrong. Yes I agree, Dodoma may not have achieved a public system where you can walk or catch a bike, a cab, a bus, a train or an international airplane in no time, but at this moment it has some special attractive identities, and today we are reminding our readers of the vines of Dodoma. I also know that the city may not have world level historical and important landmarks, the city is not yet a global leader in banking and financial services like London, but it has grapes, one of the world’s most important economic fruit crops as a special trademark making it very different from so many others in Africa and the world. As it grows slowly, with high hopes that in not very long time to come we shall begin to see pop-ups, cultural festivals, warehouse parties, and comedy nights, and we have begun to see a few emerging produce, antique, new street food centres and restaurants like Royal Oven and Chef Asili, special clothing, and jewellery markets, but the city at its level remains special. By the way, I am told that grapes are medicinal. Well, I am not a medical expect but I am happy with the submission that grapes are useful in fighting dyspepsia, haemorrhoids, stones in the urinary tract and bile ducts. I am hear that they also activate liver functions, ease digestion, help to reduce cholesterol level of blood and eliminate uric acid. This sounds phenomenal and indeed impressive. So let us cherish the Dodoma grapes. They are a distinguishing identity of our capital. And who knows, one day FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations may add Dodoma on their list of the major grape producing countries, that is China occupying the top position 12.85 percent followed by Italy with 11.57percent and USA with 9.24 percent, Spain with 9.07 and France 8.69 percent together accounting for about 51.42 percent of total world production. The ball is in our side though, what we need to do about Dodoma grapes is for the government to continue with high speed its provision of extension services, credit facilities and establishment of more grape bodies which could oversee marketing of grapes to reduce problems associated with low grape selling price to growers. Cheers