THE 10th edition of the Rock City Marathon was launched yesterday here in a colourful ceremony at the Rock City Mall. Organised by Capital Promoters International the launch of the now turned international level event was launched by Nyamagana District Commissioner, Phillis Nyimbi who showed appreciation of how the organisers perfectly run the event while offering pulsating to the winners. Rock City Marathon has increasingly gained popularity now drawing many world class runners. The major events in the grand run are 42km full marathon and the 21km half marathon for both men and women athletes. The biggest athletic event in the Lake Zone is scheduled to take place on October 20th starting and ending at the Rock City Mall parking grounds where more than 30m/- cash prize will be awarded to the winners along with t-shirts and medals. The launch attracted various stakeholders of the race, including officials from the government, various private and public Institutions, RCM sponsors and some athletes from a number of clubs in the commercial city. Making her speech on behalf of Mwanza Regional Commissioner, John Mongella, Nyimbi applauded the event’s coordinators and all stakeholders of the race for the good preparation while using the same occasion confirming her participation in the race as well as the participation of RC Mongella who will be accompanied by other several senior officials in the region. "Based on the quality of the witnessed preparation and the goals of this race, I’m making it clear that the government is ready to support the organisers of the event not only in terms of participation but also to ensure that this year’s event becomes remarkable and attracts more participants both local and international ones.'' "The Lake Zone has got many tourist attractions that must be promoted internationally and we believe that RCM can help towards achieving this goal as the race involves a full marathon that is a 42 km race and thus incorporated into the Athletic International calendar,” she said. She further mentioned some of the attractions found in the Lake Zone that include the Saanane Island, the Sukuma Museum, beautiful beaches of the Lake Victory and local residents’ cultural heritage. Rock City Marathon has increasingly gained popularity with the sponsorship of TIPER, the Tanzania National Park (TANAPA), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS), Pepsi, Lis Law Chambers & Consultants, The Tanzanian National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), CF Hospital, Mwanza Water, Pigeon Hotel, Real PR Solutions Limited, Lis Law Chambers & Consultants, SDN and Garda World Security Company. For her part, the RCM Coordinator from Capital Plus International (CPI) Magdalena Laizer appealed to the general public especially those in the Lake Zone region as well as sponsors to participate in the race that attracted more than 1,200 participants last year and over 10,000 spectators. Speaking at the event the RCM Technical Advisor, John Bayo said preparations for the race are complete by 70 per cent while using the opportunity to announce the routes to be used during the event that involves 42 km, 21 km, 5 km and 2.5 km races. He said the registration of the race is currently underway through various centres in Mwanza (Rock City Mall, Pasiansi Afro Twist Gym), Dodoma (Shabiby Bus Terminal), Dar es Salaam (Shamo Tower and Imalaseko Super Market), Arusha region and Bagamoyo in the Coast region. “Registration can also be done online through our Rock City Marathon website link https://www.rockcitymarathon. co.tz/register '' he mentioned.