THE Parliamentary Infrastructure Committee has praised Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) for spearheading mobility through a systematic road connectivity countrywide. TANROADS is an Executive Agency under the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications established in July, 2000 and has led largesize infrastructure work including construction of flyovers. The committee, in its ordinary meeting here, described the agency over the weekend as an ‘important institution’ that has ensured unconnected habitation and access of all-weather roads linking rural to urban economies. Speaking shortly after evaluating the agency’s report, Committee’s Chair Suleiman Kakoso said the agency’s strategy has offered important ruralurban link routes, which were initially impassable, but currently passable as a result of upgrade to revitalise and improve life quality. “We applaud the government through Tanroads. It is now evident that children can now go to school, and medical facilities are easier to access as well as markets,” he said, adding that some newly road connections between Katavi, Rukwa, Kigoma and Kagera regions and now in use. “These are few regions that appeared to be forgotten, but with improved road connectivity they now have unlocked economic activities.” Although, the committee noted with concern that many strategic roads were being built, and after short time forgotten, it demanded that the agency keep a close eye and monitor them to ensure that they are passable in all weathers. The potential strategic roads include the Mtwara-Mnivata, Katavi- Kigoma and Kasulu-Kagera highways, which are still under construction, and expected to open up new links and expose the regions to the rest of the country and nearby countries. The committee chairperson also urged the agency to ensure that they work diligently to improve local airports, to fast track trade and tourism. On his part, Deputy Minister of Works, Elias Kwandikwa assured the committee members that the government was committed to ensuring that they link and connect all its regions. He noted that as of June, 2019 the agency had completed the construction of Weighbridge at Kurasini in Dar es Salaam to strategically monitor vehicles coming out of the Port. “The agency is still upgrading and constructing new roads, airports and bridges and construction of Passengers’ Terminal at Songwe Airport is now 77 per cent complete and the construction of the Control Building at Mwanza Airport is complete by over 90 percent,” he told the committee. He further pointed out that the government will continue to improve service delivery countrywide by making sure that the entire road network is passable throughout the year and the airspace is effectively utilized. Tanroads had submitted its performance report for the financial year 2018/19. THE City Council of Dodoma (CCD) in conjunction with Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS) will plant two million trees in the City before the end of this year. That was said here recently by the City Council Head of Department of Sanitation and Garbage Collection Mr Dickson Kimaro, in their new initiative called ‘Make Dodoma Green.’ He said that in the course, TFS will make available seedlings to the locals, and those planning to build residential houses in the area. “The seedlings will be given to members of the public to plant and take care of them in their areas,” added the city council’s officer, while presiding over a campaign to raise awareness on cleanliness and environmental conservation in the City. ‘Make Dodoma Green’ Campaign was launched by Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan a year and half ago to make the capital city ecologically resilient in the near future. Equally, Mr Kimaro hinted that the City Council had also introduced a by- law to force the residents who are building new residential houses to plant trees in their own compounds. He noted that under the new by-law, even a tree owner should seek a permit first from the City Council in order to cut down his/her tree. Mr Kimaro pointed out that all surveyed plots should remain clean and that all garbages should be collected and dumped at special sites located at Chidaya on the outskirts of the City. “It should be noted that our Region- al Commissioner (Dr Binilith Mahenge) wants the region to remain clean and we have been carrying out cleanliness every weekend to implement the directive,” he observed. The Head of Department of Sanitation and Garbage Collection further said the City Council embarked on the weekend cleanliness campaign to cultivate a culture of cleanliness first in the population, adding that every member including business operators should clean their own compounds and offices. “We expect Dodoma City to be a model to other cities in the country,” he said. Mr Kimaro said the City Council would continue to make follow up on cleanliness exercise every weekend, adding that the authority would also take action against any city resident, who would not comply with the by-law. “Any resident who will violate the by-law will be fined between 50,000/- and 300,000/-”he said. He reminded the city residents over the ban of plastic bags and that legal action will be taken against any person who still using them.