PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday suspended seven public servants in Kilombero’s two town councils in Morogoro region over alleged embezzlement of over 1.3bn/-. The premier ordered the suspended officials to return back the money within three days before he completes his three-day working tour of the region. According to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office yesterday, the officials in the firing line include Ifakara Town Director Fransis Ndulane whose bank account received 5m/- without any detail. “The whole region has a problem of revenue loss. The money has been collected through people’s hands but never reached to bank accounts. This is the problem we cannot tolerate,” said Mr Majaliwa. The premier further revealed that according to the Controller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report for the years 2016 to June 2019, revenue collections in Ifakara Town Council was 2.7bn/- with only 1.9 deposited into the bank account, with about 727m/- reportedly missing. It was further reported that ten revenue collection machines were inspected and showed that 348m/- was collected but never deposited into the account, ending into people’s hands, instead. In investigations, according to premier, it was found that the money was deposited into various accounts of the councils’ employees by Viwanja Sitini Ward Executive Officer (WEO) Gregory Midas. The employees who allegedly received the money fraudulently were identified as Reina Mrema (298m/-), Haile Njitango (73m/-) and Linus Mdembo (2m/-). However, Premier Majaliwa directed the Head of ICT Department in Ifakara Town Council, Mr John Mvanga to be immediately reinstated into his job because he was the one who noticed the revenue loss and ended up with suspension. “You had suspended him because you knew that he noticed your evils but it will not help you. Let him be retuned back to the job and be given tight security,” ordered Mr Majaliwa. For Kilombero Town Council, Mr Majaliwa said over 600m/- was missing, with 98.5m/- deposited into some of the council employees’ bank accounts without any clarification. The premier named the implicated workers as Devid Onyango who is alleged to have taken 51m/-, Elakada Kanongole (36m/-), Fork Karunde (8m/-) and Charles Chali (2.5m/-). It was stated that out of the missing 600m/-, Kilombero Plantation Ltd (KPL) is owed 531m/-, which was not included in the system.