AIRTEL Tanzania, a smartphone network, has partnered with the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, under which its customers can now pay their land bills through Airtel Money. The move is aimed at further promoting and deepening financial inclusion among Tanzanians by sparing customers the inconvenience of travelling to the ministry’s headquarters or settle their bills through banks. According to latest statistics from the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), Tanzania has more than 260 million mobile money subscriptions with total mobile money transactions value pegged at more than 8 trillion shillings. The launch of land bills payment through Airtel money will increase the total number of subscriptions as well as mobile money subscribers countrywide. Speaking at a special ceremony to announce the system, the sector minister, Mr William Lukuvi, said that government’s innovation and efforts of introducing the state of the art government payment system through Electronic Payment Gateway (GePG) had smoothened transactions. ‘ This model of paying government bills has resulted in many benefits, such as proper record keeping, timely reporting, reduced leakages, time saving and fraud prevention as well as increasing revenues. For that reason, we are happy with this milestone that Airtel through Airtel Money, has extended to the land bills payment service, whereby the public can now use Airtel Money to pay land bills,” he said. Minister William Lukuvi applauded Airtel, adding: “We understand that Airtel adopted GePG payment system way back; partnering with the Lands Ministry today will increase our bills collection which will in turn smoothen the government’s tax collection exercise. I call upon all Airtel customers who own land to collect their bills either electronically or physically from the ministry and pay their bills using Airtel Money.” For her part, Airtel Tanzania Corporate Communications and Regulatory Affairs Director Ms Beatrice Singano, said: “Supporting government plans to increase financial inclusion in Tanzania has been one of Airtel’s strategic objectives. We understand the importance of tax payment and revenue collection to the government as it is the only way to achieve strategic project development. We will continue partnering with government agencies and institutions to facilitate ease in paying government Taxes, fees and charges.” She said in order for a customer to complete land bill payments related to the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development has to follow the steps below: Dial *150*60# to access your Airtel Money menu Select option 5 Make Payment Select option: 5 Government Payments Select option 1: Enter Control Number Enter the Amount Enter PIN. After completion of payment, a customer will receive an SMS receipt confirming the transaction. The e-receipt is acceptable as proof of the payment and eases traceability of the transaction because it is easy to save, retrieve and trace as opposed to physical receipts that could easily be misplaced or damaged.