EAST African Community (EAC) member states are reportedly still grappling with threats of cross border crimes. The most common cross-border crimes affecting the region include human trafficking, mineral smuggling, piracy, poaching and cyber related offences. Opening a two-day Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Cooperation Organisation (EAPCCO) Secretariat’s meeting here yesterday, Tanzania’s Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro noted that the region remains prone to cross-border crimes despite heightened security in respective countries’ borders. IGP Sirro who will assume the organisation’s chair from Sudanese Abil Mohammed Ahmed Bashair this Thursday noted that the region remains subjected to cross-border crimes, if available intelligence reports were anything to rely on. “We should not be complacent with the relative calmness that we seem to enjoy at the moment, the region is still under threats,” warned the country’s chief police officer. Mr Sirro further observed that criminals specialising in cross-border crimes had gone a notch higher in using sophisticated means in executing their missions and evading the police dragnet across the region. “There are worries that such incidences could spill out to other African countries as well, eventually making the continent insecure,” he said. According to Mr Sirro, crimes like illegal arm sales, smuggling, drug trafficking and prostitution rings had the potential of generating huge amounts of proceeds, noting that the criminals could be using the proceeds to disguise their illegal origin through money laundering. The country’s IGP made a passionate appeal to fellow EAPCCO members to step up efforts in combating the vice. He also urged EAPCCO member states to enhance cooperation in curbing crossborder crime. Mr Sirro’s appeal comes two months after Kenya returned to Tanzania gold worth 100m/- that was intercepted at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) last year. The return of the precious minerals and money follows an agreement between Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and John Magufuli during the Kenyan leader’s recent visit to Tanzania. Last year, a Tanzanian national was arrested at JKIA by officers from the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) over the gold bars. In August the same year, a black V8 Nissan Patrol was intercepted in Bomang’ombe, Tanzania, as it was being driven to Moshi town in Kilimanjaro, two days after it was stolen in Nairobi. Earlier, EAPCCO’s Meeting Organising Committee Chairperson who is also the head of Interpol Nairobi Regional Bureau Gideon Kimilu challenged member countries to create synergies in addressing cross border crimes. The meeting will be a precursor of the 21st EAPCCO Annual General Assembly which is expected to be graced by President Magufuli on Thursday. During their meeting, the IGPs will deliberate on a number of issues that seek to bolster security in the region with a view of stepping up efforts to curb cross border and transitional crimes in the region. Established in 1998, EAPCCO was founded as a regional response to fight transnational and organised crime. With 13 members to its name, EAPCCO is charged with carrying out regular reviews of joint crime management strategies in view of changing national, regional needs and priorities. Only nine out of 13 EAPCCO member states have signed the agreement on extradition of fugitives and sentenced criminals. With its secretariat based in Nairobi, the chairmanship of EAPCCO rotates among its member countries on annual basis. EAPCCO member countries are Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Uganda, Seychelles, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Comoros Islands and the Democratic Republic of Congo.