DAR ES SALAAM Port will have its vehicle offloading capacity raised from 163,000 to 600,000 cars, annually, thanks to completion of Rollon Roll-off (Ro-Ro) terminal construction at the port. The new berth, which is scheduled for launching today, is among eight berths that were under construction through the Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DMGP). Completion of the berth brings to three the total completed terminals out of eight under the port expansion project. The inauguration of the Ro-Ro berth comes as ministers responsible for transport, information, technologies and communications as well as meteorology from the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states meet in Dar es Salaam for their five-day meeting that starts today. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Isack Kamwelwe told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the ministers from all 16 SADC member states will, during the meeting, deliberate and agree on the better way to implement policies, strategies, projects and programmes within their sectors. The deliberations will dwell on various issues, including modern technological infrastructure, sourcing funds for project execution, postal services development, cyber safety, air and railway transport as well as water transport. “This meeting will give us guidance on how we will implement policies, strategies, projects and various programmes,” the minister stated. As SADC ministers meet in the city, Eng Kamwelwe welcomed the member states to use the Dar es Salaam port which has undergone a lot of improvements. “This port belongs to SADC member countries,” Eng Kamwelwe said. Elaborating on the Ro-Ro berth, Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) Director General Deusdedit Kakoko said the new berth can accommodate ships with maximum capacity of carrying 10,000 cars. Ahead its launch, the Ro- Ro berth yesterday accommodated the first ship—MV Grand Duke Panama, with 6,000-vehicle carrying capacity but with 1,347 cars onboard. Before its expansion, the berth had ability to handle vessels with 2,500-vehicle carrying capacity, Engineer Kakoko said, adding that the new berth is 320-metre long with modern facilities. He, however, said to leverage the capacity of the new Ro-Ro terminal to offload 600,000 vehicles annually, the port will link it with its digital systems and also cooperation from port stakeholders, including clearing and forwarding companies to work under the port’s working systems.