UNDERPRIVILEGED women benefiting from the country’s poverty alleviation scheme, dubbed the Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN), have urged their counterparts to do away with the thinking that putting up a business only requires large capital. Being implemented by the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF), PSSN supports beneficiaries with cash transfers that are used on education, health along with opportunities to earn additional income through public work and livelihood. A TASAF beneficiary, Zuhura Lyimo, who lives along Mnung’una Street of Minga Ward in Singida Municipality, yesterday told the media that the most important thing before engaging into any income generating activity is setting of goals. Based on a model adopted from TASAF trainings, the mother of nine children currently owns a modern three bedroomed house with iron roof and aluminum windows, worth over 5m/- as building costs and its entire finishing. The widow was enrolled into the programme in 2014, receiving grants amounting to 48,000/- of which she converted into wealth. Zuhura would divide the money for different uses including investing 10,000/- as shares in a women savings group, another 10,000/- on her children’s school fees, 10,000/- for food and the remaining amount was set aside for emergencies. The scheme has enabled her to raise money to support her children’s education up to college level. She did not mind multitasking due to the heavy burden of providing for the up keep of all nine children after the passing on of the spouse. Zuhura maintains several businesses including cooking buns and a poultry farm of about 100 chickens which lay eggs and earn her up to 20,000/- as daily profit. “If there is anything I have learnt through TASAF is that nothing is too small so long as you stick to your goals and use very little money to get more and grow bigger in business. “I am very grateful to the government for coming up with this programme which is a life saver to many women with similar situation like mine,” she noted. On the other hand, Edith Makala, a mother of five receives grants amounting to 36,000/- whereby 20,000/- goes to her savings and the remaining 16,000/- is spent on food for the family. Since she knows how to sew clothes, her dream was to own a sewing machine, thus she saved up to 100,000/- and bought a used machine for 180,000/- and later paid up the remaining 80,000/-. According to her, the business accumulated some money of which she used to buy a wheelbarrow for carrying gallons to supply clean water in people’s homes. Edith has managed to send her three children to college including medical school. “Most people tend to underestimate small businesses, but you can earn a lot and grow your business further... I started selling roasted maize with a capital of 5,000/- but later the business expanded,” said Edith.