TANZANIA and Kenya will this month celebrate the 8th Mara Day anniversary under the theme: ‘I, Mara River, stand with me’. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa is expected to be the guest of honour at the event, which is hosted on a rotational basis by the two East African countries. Mara Regional Commissioner (RC), Adam Malima announced a programme of the event on Tuesday during a press conference held in his office. Mr Malima said this year’s Mara Day commemoration would be held on September 12- 15 at Sokoine grounds in Serengeti District, Mara Region. The climax of the celebration will be on September 15. “We expect top national leaders from both Tanzania and Kenya, ministers and other delegates to attend this year’s Mara Day celebration and we (Mara Region) are their host,” Mr Malima said. The two countries, Mr Malima said, would, among other things, plant trees in areas around Mara River Basin in response to massive deforestation threatening the ecology of the river basin on both sides. About 100,000 trees will be planted on Tanzania’s side with every district council of Mara tasked to plant 10,000 trees, according to the RC. “We have agreed that all communities near Mara River Basin will participate in the tree planning exercise on September 13,” Mr Malima said. The tree planting exercise seeks to protect tributaries of Mara River in both countries. On September 14, the RC said the event would bring together key stakeholders of Mara River Basin from Tanzania and Kenya at a crucial conference to discuss conservation matters. “We will have about four topics that will be discussed by experts from Kenya and Tanzania,” he said. The 8th Mara Day anniversary will further involve placing beacons at the border between the river basin and neighbouring villages to discourage human activities inside the river basin. The beacons are part of the efforts made to sensitise local communities to stay 60 metres away from the river basin. The event will also create an exhibition opportunity for entrepreneurs, conservation stakeholders to showcase their products and conservation activities. The RC further said the event was meant to promote conservation in the river basin. Mara Day is marked each year to campaign for sustainable conservation of Mara River Basin. Mr Malima invited Mara residents to turn out in big numbers to mark the day, which had a significant contribution to environmental conservation. Apart from supporting wildlife conservation, Mara River is also a source of livelihoods for about 1.1 million Tanzanians and Kenyans. The 10th Sectorial Council of Ministers for Lake Victoria Basin held in the Rwandan capital Kigali in May 2012 declared every September 15 to be “Mara Day”.