FORMER President of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi yesterday refuted the prosecution’s claims that he instigated the payments of over 450m/-as re- fund of loans he had provided to facilitate different sports programmes of the Federation. He told Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam when giving his defence testimony that he was repaid the amount com- prising the sum of 173,335 US dollars and 43,100,000/- in accordance with the procedure available within TFF. “I was not the one who initiated the loan refunds. I was paid in accordance with the procedure available within the TFF. It is not true, there- fore that I gave directives to be paid the money,” Malinzi testified during cross-examination session. Giving more details on the loan refund, the former TFF boss told the court that he was paid the money through an official with the Federation, Hellen Adam, and one Steven Ngunda, who had both testified for the prosecution in the fraud and money laundering trial he is facing. In further cross-examination session by prosecuting attorney from the Prevention and Combating of CorruptionBureau (PCCB), Leonard Swai, he admitted to receive the money as indicated in the charge sheet and he had received some of the money through William Kayunba, who was TFF Office Manager. According to him, he received some of the money in cash as were not deposited in his bank account. He was, however, quick to point out that some of the documents involved in payment transactions were not produced as evidence by the prosecution during the trial. Hearing continues today. In the trial, Malinzi is charged alongside ex-TFF Secretary General, Mwe- sigwa Selestine, Accounts Offi- cer, Nsiande Mwanga and Clerk with Fed- eration, Flora Rauya with forgery, uttering false document, abuse of position, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering. Facts of the case show that TFF holds and operates six accounts at Stanbic Bank Tanzania Limited and that Edgar Masoud, who was TFF Director of Finance and Accounting was one of the signatory of such accounts. With the view to change the signatory to such accounts, the prosecution told the court that on September 1, 2016, Se- lestine presented to the Bank, Center Branch a resolution dated June 5, 2016, purportedly made by TFF Executive Committee. It is alleged that with such resolution, Masoud was re- placed by Mwanga. The prosecution alleged that such resolution was not an outcome of the Committee, but was forged by Malinzi and Selestine. After Selestine had introduced Mwanga to the Bank as their newly appointed signatory, she was recognized as TFF signatory and was involved in signing cheques, payment vouchers and other payment documents. On the other hand, according to the prosecution, for the time spanning from June 1, to December 31, 2016, Malinzi was raising false receipts on pretext that TFF had borrowed money from him. Miriam, who was TFF Office Manager and Flora were the ones who were writing the said receipts. The prosecution alleged further that the two accused persons did so notwithstanding the fact that they had not received money stated in the receipt from Malinzi. In the strength of the said false receipt, Malinzi was reclaiming payments, it is alleged. It claimed also that Selestine, in his capacity as TFF General Secretary was also the accounting officer and was allegedly involved in aiding Malinzi to be paid. Mwanga in her capacity as TFF signatory was also allegedly involved in signing some of the payment documents. The prosecution alleged in addition that as from June 1 to December 31, 2016, Malinzi claimed and actually was paid the sum of 173,335 US dol- lars and 43,100,000/-. In the strength of such claims, the accused persons were arrested, interrogated and arraigned in court facing the current charges.