YOUNG Africans face a moment of truth today, as they battle it out against Zambia giants, Zesco United in CAF Champions League at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola. The Mainland representatives will be seeking to upset the hosts in the first round second leg and sneak into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs championship. The two sides battled to a 1-1 draw in their first leg clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam two weeks ago. Zesco United’s Thaban Kamusoko came back to haunt his former employer Yanga with a last gasp equaliser. Yanga were on the verge of placing one leg into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs competition, as they took a priceless lead through a spot kick well converted by Patrick Sibomana but they failed to defend their narrow lead to the final whistle. Following the results, Yanga will be required to win or register a high scoring draw away for them to sail through into the group stage. A barren draw will see Yanga knocked out and drop to CAF Confederation Cup competition. The Jangwani Street side reached this stage after beating Township Rollers of Botswana 1-0 away but they are still without a home win in the competition, following a 1-1 first leg result in Dar es Salaam. Going into the match, Yanga Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera has declared that his charges are in the right frame of mind to grind a positive result against Zesco today. Congolese tactician Zahera, whose charges arrived in Ndola three days ago ready for the battle, believes that his team is well armed and capable to eliminate their opponents away. He will certainly be confident with results that Yanga have been posting away in continental football. “I believe my players have what it takes to sweep past Zesco away and play in the group stage of CAF Champions and remember Yanga have been posting good result away. “I know many people don’t give us a chance to make it into the group stage of the tournament but for sure, we are going to surprise them with the very same squad that played in the first leg because we now know them (Zesco) better,” boasted Zahera. His right hand man Zambian Noel Mwandila said tomorrow’s (today) fixture against Zesco United is evenly poised. Mwandila said Yanga are aiming at scoring at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium to cancel Zesco’s goal in Dar es Salaam. “Every game has its own challenges but it is a 50-50 encounter we have a chance to qualify and Zesco too have a chance to qualify so it is going to be an interesting game but the most important is the 90 minutes,” said ex-Green Buffaloes midfielder. However, Yanga should be on their guard and play cautiously. They face an uphill task against the side coached by their former trainer George Lwandamina, who made it clear that there is no way the Jangwani Street lads will escape Ndola unscathed. “Yeah! Yanga have good record away, even during my time we were doing much better away from home and struggle at home. Did you ask me if am scared? Zesco has never lost international game at Levy Mwanawasa; don’t you think they (Yanga) must be scared?” asked Lwandamina. “I’ve been following Yanga, they have made a milestone in term of improvement. The team that I left I think it is just Yondani (Kelvin) that I left. They have managed to build the team in a shortest time possible. They pressed us to the wall but with experience we resisted and built from the rear to equalise,” he said. On his part Zesco skipper and goalkeeper Jacob Banda is optimistic home advantage will prevail at Levy on today’s clash and his colleagues morale is high and are geared and focused on the decisive game.