PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the authorities of the mineral rich Geita Region to collaborate with experts from the Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) in setting aside adequate land for establishing industries necessary in building strong industrial economy. The PM issued the directives when visiting EPZA pavilion at the second Mineral Expo taking place in Geita yesterday. “Setting aside industrial areas increases efficiency in developing and attracting new investments necessary speeding up industrialisation and attaining economic growth,” he said. Most industrialised countries managed to establish strong industrial bases after allocating sufficient land for the purpose. According to EPZA, the total capital investment through the Export Processing Zones and Special Economic Zones projects hit 2.6 billion US dollars, export revenue worth 1.3 billion US dollars and over 50,000 directed jobs created by January this year. Geita Regional Commissioner Robert Gabriel assured the PM that his region will work closely with EPZA to make land arrangements which is vital for attracting more investment in industries. “We will involve closely EPZA in setting aside land for industrial development in our region. This is the reason we have invited them to participate in the mineral expo,” he noted. Export of raw goods is no longer acceptable in the modern world because it amounts to exporting jobs to other countries while providing a huge market for imports of finished goods. Gold sales in Geita Region has more than doubled to over 500 kilogramme per month following stringent measures put in place by the government that were aimed at controlling smuggling. The Senior Investment Promotion Officer at EPZA Mr Panduka Yonazi said the authority is ready to work with Geita Region by providing expertise in making land arrangements, issuance of licenses as well as benefits that investors can accrue by establishing of industries through the Special Economic Zones and Export Processing Zones. He said the establishment of mineral processing industries namely, smelting and refining facilities through the Export Processing Zones guarantee exports of 80 per cent of the processed products.