TANZANIA Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) is mulling introduction of online claim tracking system to monitor and manage all insurance related claims in the industry. Commissioner of Insurance Mussa Juma told the ‘Daily news’ in Dar es Salaam recently that the new system will be applied by all insurance companies to enable customers/ claimants to trace and track their claims. “The aim is to see most of activities that involve paper work and physical contact between policyholders and companies being replaced by automated systems. This will save time for both policyholders and companies and there-fore increase efficiency and effectiveness in offering of any insurance claim related services,” he said, clarifying further: “It’s a kind of transparent system, which is also set to enable the authority and claimants to know each step, including the amount of compensation.” As per insurance law, TIRA will be directly intervening when things go wrong, especially dissatisfaction in terms of minimal compensation rates or delay in issuance of payments by insurance companies. “Online claim trucking system is one of our priorities, it will start operating in this financial year. There are lots of beneficial things to do with this system, including inform-ing claimants and the public in general all the needed documents for filing the claims as well as compensation procedures to be followed. TIRA will be helping the claimants to have their benefits at the right time,” he said. He said TIRA is also on final process to set minimum compensation rates in line with the degree of bodily harm the victim experiences.The rates will automatically state how much one should be compensated. The minimum rates will serve in encouraging insurance companies to comply with the law that directs the release of compensations between 30 to 45 days, for non-contradictory claims. The Commissioner General said TIRA has realised that many claimants have been either not compensated or receiving minimal payments due to lack of payment guidance to control insurers. Dr Juma said that insurers have been using the loophole to benefit themselves, leaving many claimants in poverty due to negligible payments when the insured get permanent disabilities in accidents.