TIGO Tanzania has simplified home Internet connectivity and payment by combining its modems and routers with Tigo Pesa App. The second largest telco and leading innovator takes a two-year painstaking to come up with the solution, which was based on pain points experience by home internet users. Tigo Tanzania Chief Commercial Officer, Mr Tarik Boudiaf said customers could now manage their home internet usage, including buying bundles, reload or check balance through their mobile phones. “Gone are the days where the customers had to use their smartphones as modems or to go through the frustrations of removing SIM cards from their routers or modems and sometimes run a risk of damaging both when attempting to check balance, buying bundle or recharge their accounts from a different device leading to poor internet experience,” Mr Boudiaf said yesterday. He said the new feature which is the first in the market enable customers to simply manage and control their routers or modems from their own mobile phones. “Our goal is to ensure that every customer who needs internet connectivity at the convenience of their homes across the country stays connected at all times without any qualms,” he added. Tigo Head of Product and Services, David Umoh, said the innovative product came after two years of hard work after collecting home internet users pain points across the country. “We have taken almost two years to come out with this unique solution in the market…it was a long process but worth it since we value our customers best,” Mr Umoh said. He said the process continues to improve the app and the home internet solution to ensure customers gets the best digital lifestyle. Tigo Device Manager Mkumbo Myonga assured customers of the best experience when using their mobile phones for simplified home internet account management. Customers can easily purchase home internet bundles using the Tigo Pesa App, internet.tigo.co.tz or by dialing *147*00#. According to Tigo, Tanzania is among countries in Africa that have highest internet penetration at 45 per cent.