UNITED Nations Women and Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP) are set to embark on public awareness campaigns in five regions, from next week, to advocate among others, increased women’s full participation in various economic and leadership issues. The regions are Kigoma, Mara, Shinyanga, Simiyu and Tabora, said the TGNP Executive Director, Ms Liliani Liundi yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the “Increase Women’s Political Participation and Leadership through Community Sensitization” workshop. According to her, the campaigns will also involve educating the public concerning the negatives of false beliefs and misconceptions which have been undermining women in almost all spheres of life. “The society has been embracing patriarchy system, but we do believe that leadership is not masculinity but wisdom, prudence and mindfulness…. to mention but few. There is a need for the society to change and promote the women,” she said. Denial of the right for land ownership, education, decision making as well as participation in various political and economic issues are among the negative beliefs that undermines women, said the director. An independent gender economist, Ms Rebeca Mjema, remarked that there was a need for the society to value the contribution of women in the wellbeing of the nation, from the family level. She said that it should be remembered that, it is women who are fully participating in agricultural activities to assure food security to families and the nation at large. She further pointed out that it was women who were nurturing males to become public figures, meaning that they are (women) already leaders in nature, hence, there was no reason to exclude them when the issue of decision making came in. “You can recall the way young female have been left at homes by their mothers, to take care of their youngsters; the situation that confirms that a female is a leader in nature. Yet, the girls are denied the right to education so that they can intellectually serve the society. People should change,” she commented.