DESPITE the government scrapping import duty on helmets to improve availability for motorcycle users in the country, majority of them still rider without them oblivious of dangers awaiting them in accidents. To make matters worse, a survey by this paper realized that majority of those who purchase them would haggle for cheap ones, which also crush in crash accidents. Speaking to the 'Daily News' in Dar es Salaam yesterday, most helmet dealers said that original ones, which meet the country’s standards, are selling at snail's pace. One Maulid Mwasansu, a helmet dealer at Kariakoo Market in the city said that motorcycle riders, especially bodaboda operators do not purchase them as approved by Tanzania Bureau of Standard (TBS), adding: “We do not pay import duty for helmets being imported into the country, the only requirement is to ensure that they meet the national standards.” Reached for a comment, the Director for Tax Payer Services and Education at Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Mr Richard Kayombo said helmets are no longer subjected to import duty charges, saying: “Definitely, the government scrapped import duty to allow the dealers (helmet), import and sell according to TBS standards.” Earlier, speaking during a road safety training programme for journalists organized by the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children recently, the TBS Inspector-in-charge of Standards Mr Joseph Mwaipaja said that the nationally recommended helmets have legal TBS seals and name of the manufacturer. "The TBS approved helmets contain TBS symbol and is easily noticed. They feature (TBS symbol) and placed at the back of the outer-shell of the helmets," he said. A random survey in Dar es Salaam noticed that many 'Bodaboda' operators wear helmets without the signs as stipulated by the TBS and meet the national standards. However, when addressing the journalists at the training, Mr Mwaipaja said that he expects that all helmets being imported into the country must be approved by TBS before circulations. One Julius Chacha, a bodaboda rider in the city said that the national standard helmets are sold at high prices, which majority of them can not afford. "We are told the protective helmets are sold at high prices which we (Bodaboda riders) cannot afford," he stressed, adding that their unconfirmed reports note that such helmets sells between 300,000/-to 350,000/-each. In response, Mr Mwasansu, dismissed the price claim saying that their allowed price in the market should be 15,000/-. "I suggest that awareness campaigns be conducted on the importance of wearing helmets for the riders banking on it as a source of employment," he said. From a safety perspective, a helmet is the most important part of a motorcyclist while on the road, and its use has shown that in case of an accident it protects the rider’s head injury by 72 percent. Study conducted by an Orthopaedic Specialist at Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI), Dr Brayson Mcharo indicates that motorcycle crashes are a major problem at the national hospital.