THE trial of the former Simba Sports Club senior leaders, including Chairman Evance Aveva, facing fraud and money laundering trial involving 300,000 US dol- lars (about 600m/-) heads to a crucial stage in Dar es Salaam today. Principal Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba will deliver his ruling on whether the accused persons have case to answer or not. This followed the decision by the prosecution to close its case against the accused person. In the trial, the prosecu- tion led by an officer with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Leonard Swai called 11 witnesses. Other accused persons in the trial are Club’s Vice- Chairman, Nyange as well as the “Msimbazi Street” Club Registration Committee Chairman, Zacharia Hans Poppe. Facts of the case show on March 12, 2016, the Club was paid 319,212 US dollars by Etoile Sportive Du Sahel, a sports club based in Tunisia. Such amount was trans- fer fees of Emmanuel Okwi to Etoile Sportive Du Sahel. The amount was credited in Simba Sports Club bank account held at CRDB Bank Plc Azikiwe Branch where Aveva and Nyange were sig- natories. Upon credit of the amount, on March 15, 2016, a sum of 300,000 US dollars was transferred to Aveva’s personal account held at Barclays Bank. Such transfer was ef- fected using transfer of fund request form dated March 15, 2016 which was submit- ted to CRDB Bank, Azikiwe Brach by (Aveva). This form was signed by both (Aveva and Nyange). The payment details in the form were loan repayment,” reads part of the memorandum of facts It stated by the prosecution that such transfer of money had no authorization from the Club Executive Committee and that Simba Sports Club has never borrowed the said money from Aveva. The prosecution further told the court that upon the credit of the amount into personal account of Aveva, who is the sole signatory, the money was withdrawn in cash in different lots by him. Out of the 300,000 US dollars, Aveva allegedly transferred 62,183 to Ninah Ghuanzhou Trading Company Limited as cost for purchasing artificial turf for the club’s playground at Bunju, Kinondoni Municipality in Dar es Salaam. According to the prosecution, 50,000 US dollars was paid to Lauwo, who is owner of Ranky Infrastructure and Engineering Limited as cost for the construc- tion of the playing ground. It is alleged that Hans Poppe had hired the company to carry out the construction. Notwithstanding use of some money for the purchase of the artificial turf and engagement of the company, the prosecution alleges that Aveva and Nyange could not account for 187,817 US dollars which was credited in the account of Aveva. For the purpose of clearing the imported artificial turf from Dar es Salaam Port, the three accused persons made false invoice and it was submit- ted to the Tanzania Revenue Authority. Such invoice shows that the value of the artificial turf was 40,577 US dollars.