TWO leaders in Iringa Region have this weekend faced tough times after their job performance, personal conduct and decisions were questioned by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who is touring the region. Iringa Municipal Executive Director, Himid Njovu yesterday found himself in difficult times when the Premier ordered him to stop the construction of a conference hall at Igangilonga Primary School. The PM said that it was prohibited to initiate projects which were not related to education in education institutions. He ordered the director to terminate the contract he entered with a person who has hired the plot and ensure that the area is fenced for school use. Majaliwa issued the directives while addressing workers from Iringa District Council, Iringa Municipal Council and councilors on the fifth day of his tour of the region. "You should terminate all construction projects in Gangilonga and Wilolesi primary school premises because it is prohibited for such projects to be established in school premises...the area should be cleaned and fenced,” he said. On his part, Iringa Municipal Legal Officer, Nicholaus Mwasungura said that he prepared the contract under the directives of the municipal finance committee, although the Premier queried why he didn't advise them over the matter while the government had already issued a circular restricting such business in school premises. The PM also directed Iringa Regional Commissioner (RC), Ally Happi and the Municipal Land Office to investigate complaints by citizens against the municipal land officer who is accused of owning large chunks of land and making double allocation of land plots. Earlier, the RC warned the municipal workers to refrain from engaging in corruption, abuse of office and selfishness, and instead they should unite and work hard. Iringa District Commissioner (DC), Richard Kasesera appealed to the government to assist the district councils with transportation facilities because the ones being used currently were dilapidated. Meanwhile, the PM has directed the RC to make a follow up over the performance of Kilolo District Commissioner, Ms Asia Abdallah following the transfer of 14 staff, among them 10 drivers who she accused of underperforming. He said it was important for leaders to understand their responsibilities, recognize, care and value workers of all cadres, including drivers by molding them and issue them with directives because they were also human beings. The PM was speaking to Kilolo District workers, Kilolo municipal Council and councilors during his visit to Iringa Region. He said apart from the development activities being undertaken in the district, the workers lacked solidarity. Majaliwa directed the DC to ensure that she cooperates with her colleagues because most of the workers have been transferred since she assumed office, and those who were being assigned to the DC office were also complaining. He said that the DC was underrating the performance of most workers, including drivers, record keepers and