SIMBA Sports Club Information Officer Haji Manara has stretched his muscles against the 83m/- suit lodged against him at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam by Oman registered company, Abu Masoud Al Jahdhamy LLC. Apart from requesting the court to dismiss the suit in question with costs, Manara has also raised a counter claim for 31m/- payments against the company being 30 per cent of outstanding profits from advertisement of product named Dela Boss Perfume. In the main suit, Abu Masoud Al Jahdhamy LLC has sued Manara together with his claimed agents, Beatrice Ndungu and local company, Palm General Supply, demanding over 83m/- specific damages and others to be assessed by court for allegedly breach of contract for brand or shareholder agreement. Abu Masoud Al Jahdhamy LLC, the plaintiff, is, thus seeking for a declaratory judgment and decree that the three defendants are in breach of the agreement and they should be ordered to pay 83,300,000/- being actual claims. The plaintiff also pushes for general damages to be assessed by the court. The plaintiff claims to have entered into a contract with Manara for branding the Dubai manufactured products and it was expressly agreed that the former shall get 70 per cent of profit made, while the latter would receive the remaining 30 per cent. On January 21, 2019, through AMA Trading LLC, the plaintiff sent the products to Dar es Salaam worth 46m/- allegedly received by Ndungu and Palm General Supply, who are Manara’s agents between January and February before being branded and also sold. However, the plaintiff claims to have not been paid up to now. “Despite numerous verbally and written demands from the plaintiff to call the defendants to honour the agreement, the defendants refused and or ignored to heed the said demands,” reads part of the plaint of the suit. In two separate written statements of defence, however, Manara and his codefendants have vehemently disputed most facts pleaded by the plaintiff company, including refuting to have engaged in any contractual relationship with the plaintiff and have demanded him to strictly proof of the same. Manara states that he was engaged by the plaintiff to be his brand ambassador and shareholder where his main task was to perform branding services of the products by engaging into social media accounts, notably Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, You- Tube, Snapchat and WhatsApp to promote the goods. In consideration of the services, Manara and the plaintiff agreed that they would share the profits from the sale of the products in a 70 per cent to 30 per cent manner. He refuted the claims that he was to reimburse the plaintiff the invested amount used to deliver the products from Oman to Dar es Salaam. However, in the counter claim, Manara claims that his contractual obligations as per the agreement signed by the parties on December 19, 2019 was to be in charge of communicating the products, while the company was in charge of the investment of the product. From the date of signing the contract, he fulfilled his contractual obligations by communicating the product via the social media accounts and other platforms so as to advertise the product.