IT took an ‘emergence’ rescue to lift national athletics team from Arusha, where it was helplessly stuck without support, to take the four athletes to Q atar for the World Athletics Championships starting in Doha tomorrow. The team was flagged off yesterday in Arusha but Captain Alphonce Simbu lamented that they were neglected in Arusha without support as they prepared to represent Tanzania in the prestigious event. “ The preparatory camp collapsed, each one of us was in his or her own, we only met here today (yesterday) for a farewell occasion… even the tickets for the athletes were secured at the 11th hour from good Samaritans,” said Simbu. Comprising four athletes, three of the local athletes were flagged off at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium here, after the Athletics Tanzania (AT) fought hard to secure air tickets for them in the last minute. AT Secretary General Wilhelm Gidabuday, said that companies that had initially written commitment to sponsor the team pulled out in the last minute for unknown reasons. “ We were stuck here and they were not even picking up our phone calls,” pointed out the AT official. We are walking on tightrope as athletes did not even have time to pitch camp to prepare for the World Athletics Championships 2019 forcing the runners to practice in their own,” he said. The team’s trip to Doha was thus facilitated by individuals; Dennis Male of Ambassador Club of Arusha and Thomas Tlanka, the owner of the Talent club, which produced one of the athletics delegates, Failuna Abdi Matanga, who flew to Q atar earlier on and she is to run women’s marathon tomorrow. Failuna, who is the lone woman in the team best time, is 2 hours and 27 minutes. Others making up the national team include Simbu, Stefano Huche and Augustino Sule, who are due to leave on October 2nd 2019 ahead of the men’s marathon event pegged for October 5th 2019. Sulle posted his personal best time last year, when he shattered Juma Ikangaa’s record by clocking 2 hours, 07 minutes and 40 in Toronto Marathon in 2018 . Simbu best time is 2:08 : 27 while Huche qualifying time is 2:12:24. Arusha City Sports Officer, Benson Maneno handed over the national flag to the Tanzania’s team here. He challenged AT to hike fees to organizers of local athletics events, so that the association can earn more money to support international runners. Maneno promised to also chip in some monetary support to the local athletes going to Q atar, to the tune of 1m/-. Tanzania has so far managed to win only two medals in the IAAF World Championship meet. The first to win it was Christopher Isegwe who won silver in 42km marathon in the championship held in Helsink Finland in 2005. The second medal is bronze and was brought by Alphonce Simbu during the championship in Scotland in 2017. In Kampala, a team of 22 athletes will represent Uganda 2019 IAAF world athletics championship, this is the biggest number ever in Uganda’s history. The 17th edition of the IAAF World Athletics Championship will be at the renovated multi-purpose Khalifa International Stadium in Doha from tomorrow to October 6th this year.