YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said striker David Molinga is slowly regaining confidence after he scored the equalising goal for his side over the weekend. Yanga had to wait until in the 90th minute to make the friendly match against Pamba FC end in a balance of 1-1 at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. The game was a build-up test for Jangwani Street based giants who hosts Zambia’s Zesco United on Saturday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first leg clash of the CAF Champions League (CAF CL) whose reverse tie would be played a week later in Lusaka, Zambia. A win by Yanga will see them stepping into the group stages of the lucrative football contest in the continent but they still need to do enough rehearsals before taking on the Zambians. According to earlier reports from the club, the team is lined up for two friendlies in Mwanza and expect to journey back to Dar es Salaam on Wednesday to finalise preparations of the CAF CL tie. However, it was the hosts Pamba FC who got the leading goal in the 30th minute courtesy of a powerful strike inside the box from Saad Kipanga which was too strong for Yanga goalie Ramadhan Kabwili to catch. His goal remained valid until in the 90th minute when Congolese striker Molinga fired home from a close range to restore hopes of doing well in the upcoming championship encounter. It was his first goal while trading with Yanga after missing many scoring chances as the match unfolded. At a post match briefing, Zahera praised Molinga saying he is slowly getting confidence and that he needs ample playing time so that he should get used to the team’s rhythm. “Scoring a goal today (Saturday) has made him happy and his confidence is coming back. I know him very well and he will get better as time goes since he is still in the process to lose weight,” the coach said. He added that when he (Molinga) arrived at the club, he had 82 kilogrammes but now he has managed to reduce it to 74 kilogrammes saying he is responding well to exercises. Commenting more on his performance, Zahera said even the team’s former striker Heritier Makambo scored three goals in his first ten matches at the club hence fans should be patient with Molinga such that soon, he will regain his scoring boots. On his part, Pamba Head Coach Muhibu Kanu hailed his team for staging good fight against experienced team insisting that they will continue to train hard to do well in the First Division League (FDL). “We faced a strong side which has good players but managed to hold them until in the last minutes when we conceded. This is a perfect start for us,” said him.