PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday asked the Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries to ensure 80 per cent of people and villages in the region have access to basic internet services. Premier Majaliwa challenged ministers responsible for ICT, information, transport and meteorology in the SADC region to review the SADC Strategic Plan of 2015-2063 with the view of promoting fast economic growth in the respective countries. He called on the ministers who are meeting in Dar es Salaam to deliberate on issues surrounding last year’s SADC goals, which include coverage of 80 per cent of people and villages with basic internet services and acquisition of fast internet connection by 50 per cent of members. Opening the cluster ministerial meeting in Dar es Salaam, Mr Majaliwa said: “Internet usage in the SADC remains low at 22.3 per cent compared to the global requirement of 51.2. It’s critical to come with a plan to achieve the goal.” He said statistics show that 3.9 per cent of the global population uses the internet and various social media, the situation that poses a serious threat of cybercrimes, calling for strengthened security to safeguard the countries. The premier noted that in the SADC region, countries like Tanzania, South Africa, Mauritius and Botswana have been identified as among the best countries in strengthening their cyber security. He reminded member states to make use of advancedtechnologies to devise systems, which can carry out early detection climatic changes, which have been witnessed in the recent past to cause great harm in some of SADC members like Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe. “In dealing with issues relating to climatic changes, Tanzania has already purchased two radars and three more are on the way for the same purpose,” he noted. Mr Majaliwa noted that to arrive at beneficial regional integration, it’s of paramount importance for the member states to embark on supervision of the 2017- 2020 SADC Postal Service Strategic Plan to bring positive results in the region. He called on the 10 ministers at the meeting to utilise the platform to deliberate on ways of harmonising policies, guidelines and laws in the transportation sector to reduce costs of trade. SADC Secretariat’s Director of Infrastructure Mapalao Mokeana disclosed that as the region embarks on improvement of infrastructure as a key driver to promote industrialisation in the region, there has been laxity by the countries to finance the projects. She observed that among issues, which have dominated in the discussions, is the need to have the SADC Economic Fund, which will help the region on financing its own projects and programmes. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe noted that in attendance were four ministers from Angola, two from DRC, three Zambians as well as two from South Africa and Zimbabwe, each. Whereas countries like Lesotho and Mozambique were represented by one minister each, the host Tanzania had five ministers.