CHINA has said its cooperation with African countries will focus more on putting forward innovative approaches aiming at improving the clatter's capacity for self-development. Thus, China has reiterated its willingness to continue supporting the African Union (AU) and ensure Agenda 2063 is attained for the better and shared future. Addressing a two-day China- Africa think tanks forum that brought together over 400 scholars, government officials and diplomats from Africa and China in Beijing, Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Chen Xiaodong said his government is looking forward to implementing high standard and sustainable projects to benefit people from both sides. Mr Chen said Sino-African relations had reached an extraordinary level in all fields, citing the number of mutual visits between the two sides, where more than 200 senior Chinese officials visited the African continent and more 13 African Heads of State visited China. "China would like to work with Africa and take the cooperation to the next level for the greater interest of the two parts," he said. For the past 10 years, China has been Africa's largest partner as statistics show that, trade volume between China and Africa exceeded $200bn. He explained that so far 44 African countries had signed cooperation agreements with China on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Speaking at the event, AU Ambassador to China Rahmatullah Mohamed Osman stressed the importance of ensuring all parties were equally treated in all agreements that had been signed. He also commended Chinese President Xi Jinping’s move on supporting AU Agenda 2063, saying already tangible results had started being seen especially in infrastructure, energy and agricultural sectors. “BRI is in harmony with AU Agenda 2063 as it is also based on the concept of peaceful cooperation, openness and mutual benefit. Moreover, it aims at improving global governance and the globalisation process, while providing equal opportunities for all,” explained the AU diplomat. For his part, Vice President of China Institute of International Studies Ruan Zongze was of a view that the achievements of China-Africa cooperation shouldn’t only be weighed by the increase in annual trade volume, but also the impact that would be people’s lives. “Cooperation between think tanks from both sides should serve the common development of China and Africa as well as help strengthen mutual understanding of people exchange,” he said. The 2019 forum, which was held on the first anniversary of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), had the theme: “Fully Implementing the Follow-Up Action of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation,” where among other issues, participants discussed how jointly they could build a closer community of the shared future between China and Africa.