SEEDSTARS World, a Switzerland based startup competition that takes place in emerging markets and fast-growing businesses recently set foot in Tanzania and partnered with Sheria Kiganjani, Kilimo Fresh and Zanzibar Health Innovation citing them as top three winners domestically. The organisation that promotes connects and invests up to $1 Million in the emerging market startups through its exclusive startup competition in over 75 countries. Intense quest took place in two events, supported by The Embassy of Switzerland to Tanzania and Zambia with Tigo Business in a bid to promote innovative sustainable solutions in the country and to develop profitable products for the global market. Speaking after emerging the winners of the pitching competition in Dar es Salaam recently, the Co-founder of Sheria Kiganjani, Ms Neema Magimba said they were extremely happy for the country at the Regional and Global competition. "This is a feeling that no money in the world can buy. We are super happy and getting ready to represent the country at the global competition," said Ms Magimba. The Community Manager of Seedstars, Mr Mohamed Shellimoh said Kilimo Fresh with its B2B online platform for farmers’ produce distribution, came second and Zanzibar Health Innovation that is building an Artificial Intelligence Cardiologist robot grabbed the third spot. He added that Sheria Kiganjani will be participating at the Seedstars Africa Summit in Johannesburg and the global Seedstars Summit, which takes place in Switzerland, in April 2019. According to him, the global summit comprises a weeklong training programme, with the opportunity to meet over 65 winners from other fastgrowing economies, as well as investors and mentors from around the world. He further noted that the final day of the summit would be dedicated to pitching in front of an audience of more than 1000 attendees, adding that ‘with the possibility of winning up to USD one million in equity investment and other prizes. During Seedstars Dar es Salaam, 12 startups attended included Mtabe App, Noobites, MITZ Kits, MYHI, Zanzibit, Nuru, DroneWings, Nyumbani Care and Exicab. The Chief Business Officer at TIGO Business, Mr Pavan Ramdhani pointed out that the company was delighted to have met with the Seedstars Tanzania team and were eager to help Tanzania businesses innovate and thrive. "We are honoured that they chose us to be their partner and together we will continue to drive this exceptional program that focuses on developing entrepreneurs, who specialize in tackling problems whose solutions will positively impact Tanzania" said Mr Ramadhani.