THE World Bank (WB) has approved more than 1tri/- for human capital and livelihood improvement in Tanzania. The new financing, expected to benefit over five million Tanzanians, more than half of them being women from improved social safety nets, was approved on Thursday by World Bank Board of Executive Directors. The $450 million International Development Association (IDA) credit to the Second Productive Social Safety Net Project (PSSN II), implemented by Tanzania Social Action Fund (Tasaf), will improve food consumption and livelihoods, while increasing children’s primary school attendance and completion as well as their access to healthcare. According to a press statement released to the media yesterday, the money will also improve secondary school participation. “Tanzania’s social safety net programme has helped beneficiaries to save more money and obtain more assets. As a result, many have more food and access to better education Govt assures farmers of timely farm inputs delivery ‘State scrutinises Msimbazi Valley facelift offers’ From HENRY LYIMO in Dodoma The government is scrutinising offers to develop Msimbazi Valley in Dar es Salaam from a flood prone area into an iconic city park surrounded by prime real estate for urban development. Minister of State in the Vice- President’s Office (Union Affairs and Environment) George Simbachawene said in Parliament yesterday that the government was studying the offers on the table to assess their viability to turn the valley from a hazardous liability into a beacon of urban resilience. “We have offers on the table, but as government, we must ensure we get a viable credit or grant,” he said in his answer to a supplementary question from Mr Maulid Mtulia (Kinondoni- CCM), who wanted to know when the government would improve Msimbazi Valley. The minister said plans to change Msimbazi Valley from a liability into an opportunity for investments needed careful scrutiny as it would be a major undertaking with long-term impact on the Dar es Salaam City. “The government is still studying the plan and if necessary we will present it in Parliament,” he noted. Continues on Page 3 Continues on Page 3 By DAILY NEWS Reporter THE World Bank (WB) has approved more than 1tri/- for human capital and livelihood improvement in Tanzania. for increased productivity,” said the PM. He utilised the opportunity to advise farmers on the effective storage of food reserve ahead of the new farming season. Mr Majaliwa said in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) there was a food shortage due to natural calamities that hit the region. He said the calamities had resulted in a shortage of cereals by 14 per cent, whereas Tanzania and South Africa had excess produce, thus urging the business community to utilise the opportunity. Mr Majaliwa noted that food production in the country was stable, stressing that in the 2018/19 farming season the harvest was 16.41 million tonnes, while actual needs were 13.84 million tonnes. “In the coming season the First NHC GM dies in Dar 6 Tanzania’s social safety net programme has helped beneficiaries to save more money and obtain more assets. As a result, many have more food and access to better education and healthcare. - Ms Bella Bird public of Tanzania Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation to ensure eight projects promised during the TCAD-7 meeting in Japan were being fulfilled as pledged. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technology has also been told to give strategies that will see the country and Tanzanians benefit from Kiswahili, which is now the fourth SADC country by exploring opportunities and how best they could be utilised. Speaking on road accidents he said Tanzanians should not flock to the accident’s scene rob the victims of their properties, instead they should support them, citing a recent fuel tanker accident in Morogoro as a case in point. Insurance is an essential element in the operations of sophisticated national economies throughout the world today. Still, this new financial support will be critical to improve the lives of many more people in need and overall raise the country’s human capital index, which is still very low at 0.40,” said Ms Bella Bird, the World Bank Country Director. She added: “We will continue working with the government and engage with citizens and other stakeholders on complex development issues facing the country and its people.” The WB statement said Tanzania had successfully piloted a conditional cash transfer programme in three districts from 2009 to 2012. It was eventually developed into a comprehensive and integrated national social safety net system – Tasaf. In 2012, the government began implementing the scaled-up first phase supported by IDA through the Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN I), which attained its target of reaching one million households by September 2015, well ahead of schedule. PSSN I targeted over 10 per cent of the country’s population, approximately 650,000 households living under the food poverty line as well as about 350,000 at risk of falling under that line because of a shock affecting their incomes. The statement said the objective of the Second Productive Social Safety Net Project was to provide poor households with income-earning opportunities and socio-economic services, while enhancing and protecting the human capital of their children. It builds on the first phase’s achievements and will especially focus on productive and financial inclusion, through support services such as public works, savings groups, training and livelihood grants. Participants in the public works programme are projected to increase from around 250,000 in 2019/20 to more than 830,000 in 2022/23, while the livelihood enhancement programme will be scaled up from the current pilot stage to reach over 200,000 households by the end of the project. “Due to population growth, despite a reduction in the extreme poverty rate, the absolute number of people living in extreme poverty increased between 2007 and 2018,” said Muderis Abdulahi Mohammed, World Bank Senior Social Protection Specialist and Co-Task Team Leader. He added: “Poor households face significant barriers in accessing existing livelihood opportunities and services and this second project will be focusing on addressing and removing these barriers.” According to Michele Zini, Senior Economist and Co-Task Team Leader, “PSSN II will support Tanzania’s Social Action Fund to enable many extremely poor households not simply to temporarily move out of poverty, but also to progressively build their asset base, human capital and resilience necessary to keep themselves out of poverty for a long-term.” According to WB, the approval of the project acknowledges efforts by the government of Tanzania to address policy issues by amending the Statistics Law (2018) in line with international practice, as well as the government’s commitment to facilitating all girls to complete their education.