THE CAF level mission is back again for three Tanzanian envoys; Young Africans, Azam and Isles Malindi, who will be hosting opponents from Zambia, Zimbabwe and Egypt this weekend. Heralding the whole mission for trio are Young Africans, who are engaged in CAF Champions League assignment against Zambian giants Zesco United, while Azam who host Triangle United of Zimbabwe and Malindi who will play against Egyptian Al Masry feature in the CAF Confederation Cup. Ahead of their match against Zesco United, Yanga’s Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera believes his team has every chance to defeat their opponents and qualify for the next round in the competition. Zahera, who guided Yanga past Botswana’s Township Rollers in the preliminary round with a 2-1 aggregate score, said he is confident to clear the Zambian hurdle. Zahera said he is not worried by the fact that the current Zesco United's head coach, George Lwandamina once coached Yanga and he may know how to stop them. “Even though Lwandamina has been Yanga's coach, there is nothing to worry about as football has changed a lot. Zesco United have their own approach to the game and we will have our own approach to this game,” Zahera said. Yanga will host the Zambian champions on Saturday before the return leg on September 28. Zahera, whose outfit lost 1-0 to Ruvu Shooting in the Premier League opener, opted to pitch a camp in Mwanza where his team played two build up matches against Pamba and Toto Africa. Zahera, who heads Y anga’s technical bench, said his team is preparing well for the encounter and morale is high in the camp and all of the players are looking forward to the game. “Our aim is to win the game at home, the preparations are going on well, I’m confident that we will do well in our game against Zesco,” he said. He said his squad’s recent friendly matches against First Division League (FDL), outfit, Pamba which ended in a 1-1 draw at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza last Friday. Striker, David Molinga equalised late for his Jangwani Street based club. It was the first goal for Molinga ever since he joined Yanga and the team’s Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera has already pleaded that he needs to be given more playing time before he can start showcasing his remarkable performance. Molinga also scored a brace in a 3-0 win over Toto African in another friendly match played yesterday at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza. Deus Kaseke, who came in as a second half substitute scored the third. Coach Zahera believes that the two matches have helped him plan well for the Zesco match. Azam are facing Triangle United, a team from Zimbabwe at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. And, ahead of their Sunday match against Triangle United, the team’s ‘hitman’Obrey Chirwa is confident he will help his team to get enough goals in the first leg of their CAF Confederation Cup qualifier. Obrey added that the team has a debt to pay their loyal fans with a positive outcome in the twolegged match. “Generally, it is going to be a tough match, my job while on the pitch remains to score goals hence, I am well prepared to make sure we emerge winners through using the home advantage positively,” Chirwa told the 'Daily News'. At Home, Triangle United lost their domestic match with a 2-1 margin against Black Rhinos on Sunday, while Azam won a friendly match against Pan Africans where Chirwa scored a hat-trick in the 4-1 victory on Saturday.