INTERNATIONAL law professor Russian, Alexander Meziaev is in Tanzania for a special mission at the Russian Cultural Centre in Dar es Salaam. Having worked as a member of the Association of Defence Counsel before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and currently Head of the Department of International Law, Law Faculty at the University of Management TISBI, Kazan in Russia and visiting professor of the University of Johannesburg, South Africa, Prof Meziaev has vast experience in issues related to international criminal justice. Our Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA got an opportunity to interview him on his professional experience. Excerpts… QUESTION (Q): When did you arrive in Tanzania and when will you be leaving and what actually brought you here? ANSWER (A): I arrived in Tanzania on Sunday and in fact it is my first trip to East Africa. All my previous works were connected with West Africa and South Africa, where I work as a visiting professor at the University of Johannesburg. But my relationship with Africa has a very long root. My first interest was raised when I read African literature when I was still a child. At that time, the Soviet Union had translated the works of African writers and published an incredible number of books. If I tell you, you will probably not believe. They were hundreds and thousands of copies of famous African writers like Chinua Achebe, Wole Soyinka, Ngugi wa Thiong'o and many others. That interest brought me to the establishment of journals on international law and international relations which had special reference to Africa. So, my visit to Tanzania is part of my interest and my love of Africa. I will be here for 10 days before leaving for South Africa on September 25. Q: Will you be able to visit some of the tourism attractions we have in Tanzania like Mount Kilimanjaro, Serengeti National Park, Ngorongoro Conservation Area and many others within this period? A: Probably next time because the country for me first is its people. I know the nature is very rich, but probably it will be the next step for me. My priority now is the people and that is why we have a lot of meetings, interviews and lectures. I need to learn first from the people. Q: International criminal courts have a system of providing reparation to victims of crime. In Tanzania, such a system is mainly applied to victims of rape and other related crimes, when one is found guilty. However, there is no procedure for providing reparation to the accused once proved not guilty despite them having spent years in a remand prison. What do you say on this? A: This is a very interesting question. In fact, you are asking two questions. The first part of your question concerns with the reparation of victims at international tribunals. Let me tell you that international tribunals are the main part of profession I work with them. I work as defence counsel at several international criminal tribunals. Let me tell you quite frankly that the reparation system within these tribunals unfortunately is not that is portrayed in the mass media because these tribunals were not established for the purpose of helping or defending the victims. The matter of victims before international criminal tribunals is propaganda because the victims will never really be the interests of these tribunals. If you look objectively on the activities of these tribunals you will see the main task is: First, the removal of certain heads of state for not behaving according to local powers. Second is the destruction of international law and third the task of these tribunals is the creation of a new law. I suggest that we call it the global law. First, I tried to call this as a new international law, but it is not international because when you say it is international it means it is the law created by nations–this means states. But when judges create the law they are not the states. They are acting in their personal capacity. So, it is not international law anymore, but it is still accepted as an obligatory norm. So, it is still a kind of law, but we call it a global law. When we talk about the real aims of these international tribunals we should keep this in mind. Coming to the second part of your question, indeed, that explains things when we have the acquitted persons without any possibilities for reparation after eight, seven, 10, 13 years or more. We should not be surprised because these tribunals were never about human rights either for victims or the accused. So, this system without reparation is very dangerous. I know why you’re asking me this question because it is exactly a situation that happened in the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), where several accused spent more than 10 years in prison. They were acquitted finally and no reparation and no even possibilities to come back not only to their mother land, but also to any other countries. But again, to understand this situation we have to rely that the purposes of these tribunal were very different from what the mass media usually tells us. Q: What are your suggestions, then? A: Well, I suggest that this situation should be brought to a very serious attention of the Security Council. I know that the President of ICTR tried to resolve the matter through diplomatic channels, but it didn’t work. So, I think that it should be put into consideration by the Security Council because it is the Security Council which is stepping on these tribunals. Probably that could resolve the problem because the Security Council has the authority to do it and has the authority to resolve all shortcomings. Q: How about at the regional or national level? A: Still there is a possibility at regional level, but probably it is a diplomatic matter. But, of course, diplomacy has wide possibilities and is always flexible. We need to think about it not exactly the people we are talking about now. We have to talk on this matter in a wide context because we still have this problem with international criminal courts not only with the ICTR. Recently, we had several acquittals and all of them are not satisfied with the legal point of view. So, it is a wonderful situation when local systems provide more rights to the accused than international system. But the international system always claims to bring the highest level of legacy, which is not true at a deeper level. We have a recent acquittal of former President of Ivory Coast, Laurent Gbagbo and his minister. They spent seven years in prison and were acquitted, but nothing. We have the acquittal of former Vice-President of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Jean-Pierre Bemba. He has now applied for reparation and it is the first case to be considered by the International Criminal Court (ICC), but the matter is not yet resolved. We already see the fears of the prosecution side, saying this application should be rejected. Q: Most people indicted both at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), were senior government and military officials for the role they played in the commission of crimes, such as genocide, crimes against humanity, among others. What do you think, can government and military officials learn from these trials? A: I understand what you mean when asking me this question. As I have already said, all these international tribunals were officially created to prosecute more in response to these crimes. But in practice it was not so. Let me give an example from the first international tribunal that was first created, the ICTY. It was created to prosecute those, who committed war crimes, but not those, who initiated the war. So, it was a very strange situation when the war was committed, but nobody was interested in who started the war. That didn’t happen occasionally, it did happen by chance. This situation was specifically created because those, who really initiated the war in the former Yugoslavia were those, who initiated the ICTY. So, they only wanted to legally fix the results of that war. When we talk about the results of the activities of the tribunal we have to keep this in mind. So, what do government or military officials could learn, I think they have to learn the real results of the creation of these tribunals because it is not about prosecuting the most responsible. They could also learn from the case of Jean Pierre Bemba. Most people don’t know why Bemba was brought to the ICC for. Usually they think it is about the DRC situation, but it is not. The Bemba case was the only case within the situation in the Central Africa Republic. But it is very strange with the ICC. They never indicted anybody from Central Africa. The only accused in this was the former Vice-President of DRC, who in fact only sent his troops to the then legitimate President of Central Africa Republic, Ange- Félix Patassé. If you look at the first Trial Chamber, which found Bemba guilty of command responsibility, the prosecution claimed that he controlled his troops. As we see later the Appeals Chamber agreed with what I say that Bemba was not in command, as there was no proof that he was still in command. This case was intended to create a case for the future when the leaders of African states will be prevented from helping neighbours with the military. So, there is still a lot for the government officials to learn, but it should be learnt in a proper way and not through propaganda. Q: Don’t you see the principles of good governance can apply under the circumstances? A: Well, they should be applied. But as the activities of these tribunals show they are not norms to them. That is why the African Union took a decision to withdraw collectively from the ICC, criticising its decision that it was created mainly to prosecute African leaders. In parallel to withdrawing from the ICC, the African leaders adopted the Protocol to the African Union Treaties establishing the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights, the new one which includes the jurisdiction for international crimes and so on. It is a very important movement that we should not disregard because it is important that African leaders have found their own decision and not that the foreigners will decide for them.