SUSPECTED “hardcore” poacher Hassan Likwema, alias Nyoni and five others appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with four poaching related charges. The accused were linked to possession of 413 pieces of elephant tusks and two pieces of hippopotamus teeth. With Nyoni, other accused were Bushiri Likwema who resides at Kitunda Kivule, Olicer Mchuwa, a resident of Yombo Buza, Salama Mshamu, who lives at Saku Chamanzi, Haidary Sharifu, alias White, Gongo la Mboto resident and Joyce Thomas of Kivule Mwembeni. Before Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo, the accused were not allowed to enter plea to the charges of leading organised crime, unlawful possession of government trophies and money laundering because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate adjourned the case to October 1, 2019 for another mention. Investigations into the case are incomplete, according to the prosecution that comprises state lawyers— Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon and State Attorneys Elizabeth Mkunde, Salim Msemo and Tully Helela. Prosecuting, the prosecution told the court that on diverse dates between January 1, 2017 and September 3, 2019 at various places in Mtwara, Coast and Dar es Salaam regions, jointly and together; all accused willfully organised a criminal racket. The accused allegedly dealt in government trophies by accepting 413 pieces of elephant tusks valued at 1,755,000 US dollars and two pieces of Hippopotamus teeth valued at 1,500 US dollars, totaling 4,043,463,000/-. The prosecution alleged that on September 3, 2019 at Saku Chamanzi in Temeke District in the city, all the accused were found with the 413 pieces of elephant tusks and two pieces of Hippopotamus teeth. On money laundering count, the prosecution claims that all the accused committed the offence on diverse dates between January 1, 2017 and September 3, 2019 at various places in Mtwara, Coast Region and Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that the accused possessed the pieces of elephant tusks and hippopotamus teeth, all valued at over 4bn/- knowing or ought to have known at the time of receipt that such government trophies were proceed of predicate offence of poaching. Recently, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, was quoted as reporting the seizure of the ivory tusks equivalent to killing at least 117 elephants. The ivory was recovered after authorities had arrested Nyoni in connection with the matter. “The arrest of Nyoni has brought us to a stage where we can say we have taken into custody all the hardcore poachers on our wanted list, except for a few who have left the country. Nyoni and his accomplices’ consignment is worth 4bn/- and involved the killing of 117 elephants,” he said. It is reported that the elephant population in Tanzania, famed for its wildlife reserves, shrank from 110,000 in 2009 to barely 43,000 in 2014, according to a 2015 census, with conservation groups blaming rampant poaching. Demand for ivory in Asian countries like China and Vietnam, where it is turned into jewels and ornaments, has driven the surge in poaching across Africa. The government spearheaded anti-poaching efforts led to a recovery in elephant number, rising to over 60,000 at present. In February 2019, the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court sentenced a prominent Chinese businesswoman— Ivory Queen— to 15 years in prison for smuggling the tusks of over 350 elephants to Asia, marking a major victory government.