EMOTIONS engulfed the 50th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) Africa Region Conference here yesterday, with grave concerns raised over Xenophobia attacks in South Africa. But, the government has assured that no Tanzanian has so far been killed or injured in the attacks. CPA parliamentarians from across the African continent delayed their general meeting for almost an hour to discuss the worrying developments in South Africa before condemning in the strongest possible terms the violence and looting against other Africans in South Africa. CPA Zambia Branch Vice- President and MP for Msanzala Peter Daka described the Xenophobia as genocide. “What we’re seeing is not good, it’s not interesting and it’s not conducive, we have never seen it anywhere,” he said. The Zambian legislator proposed for South African authorities to act tough against the problem, saying little has been done so far. “I saw South African President issuing a statement, but the problem goes beyond statement issuance,” said Mr Daka. Malawi’s Deputy Speaker Dr Esther Mcheka Chilenje urged the South African government to immediately fix the problem and protect Africans from other nations. She said the violence against fellow Africans by South Africans was defeating the CPA African region’s quest for deeper trade, integration and cooperation. Malawian MP Nancy Tembo backed her colleague’s concerns, saying Malawians were among the most affected nations. “The message we are sending to South Africans is that we are Africans first before we become the nationalities we have,” she said, reminding that all countries have migrants and that legal ways should be adhered to in dealing with the immigrants. “We expect this situation to stop because it is not the first time these practices have happened,” she urged, warning that failure to end the attacks could spark similar violence against South Africans in other nations. Simai Mohamed Said reminded South Africans of the sacrifices people from other African nations made in the fight for the rainbow nation’s freedom. The Zanzibar CPA Branch Chairperson opined that South African schools should teach from the grassroots about the history of the country and its relations with other African nations. Kenyan Senator Enoch Wambua called for stern measures against what he termed as criminalities. “Let us be bold and candid about this matter. This is not a diplomatic issue, this is a criminal and should be addressed and dealt with as such, there should be laws in South Africa that deal with criminals, we should not hide behind diplomacy,” the Kenyan senator stated. He asserted that there is no African foreigner anywhere in Africa, charging that Africans all over the continent regardless of their nationalities should treat each other with dignity and respect. His compatriot John Ali said the continent should not allow what he described as madness in South Africa to take root in Africa, “This is how radical groups are formed…today they might be targeting people they perceive not South Africans, when they finish them, they will turn into internal fights, murders and wars in South Africa.”