THE Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Board has been urged to collaborate with the Ministry of Investment in Prime Minister’s Office in amending the 1996’s investment policy and 1997’s investment law in a bid to improve business and investment environment in Tanzania. Speaking during the 19th TPSF Annual General Meeting (AGM) over the weekend, the Minister for Investment, Ms Angela Kairuki said there is a need for TPSF to participate on the matter in question so as to find solution on various challenges related to business and investment. he said that policies and laws governing the sector would not only focus on foreign investors but also the local investors on how to support them grow. “I hope that you (TPSF) will be patriotic enough to put most of your investments in the country. That is why we want amendments in our policies and laws to make sure that local investors are prioritised,” she said. Ms Kairuki pointed out that the government recognises and honours the public private partnership and acknowledges the presence of TPSF as an umbrella for private sector, adding that TPSF also deserves applause for chairing the Southern African Development Community (SADC) business forum for year 2019/2020. “I would like to take this opportunity to commend TPSF for the cooperation with the government. It is important to recognise that the 21st century economy needs both public and private sector to prosper, we hope that TPSF will continue to do better,” she said. The Minister reminded TPSF of the importance to implement directives issued previously by President John Magufuli of expanding its scope by opening up branches up country, adding that TPSF must also be gender sensitive by making sure that women are involved and sensitized to grab business opportunities so as to achieve the 2025 middle income and industrialisation goals. She added that widening scope of TPSF and women involved were key issues that would help in strengthening the institute, adding that increase in creativity was also key in success. “Let’s build Tanzania, build private sector and become independent together, it’s possible, it can be done,” she said. Ms Kairuki noted that the government has earmarked key areas of interest for private sector which includes establishment of industries in the country, developing and strengthening bigger projects of infrastructure as well as taking part in amending policies and laws governing the sector. The TPSF Chairman, Mr. Salum Shamte said the meeting was a success and thanked the government for continued support promising to work on all the suggestions and directives from the government and give feedback. “Sincerely as an organisation we are thankful to the government for way in which it has extended its support to us in making sure that the challenges we face are solved for improved business and investment conditions. We have already agreed to change the structure of this organisation and widen scope to reach out to people in regions and districts that are out of Dar es Salaam,” he said. On his part, TPSF Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Simbeye also thanked the ministry for the opportunity to participate in the amendment of policies and laws governing the sector, adding that when effected the changes would go a long way in addressing challenges now being faced by the sector