SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems has dedicated the 2-1 victory recorded against Mtibwa Sugar on Friday to the club’s new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingiza. The champions continued their 100 per cent start of the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) with a deserved win over the Morogoro based side at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Aussems charges have now pocked six points from their two league matches and look sharp to once again defend the title for the club’s record of three seasons in a row. Up next, Simba host Lipuli FC at Uhuru Stadium in the city with a chance to bag nine points after three outings, while their first match outside Dar es Salaam will see them visiting Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, a venue which has proved difficult for Simba for the past three seasons. Reacting after the match against Mtibwa Sugar, Aussems said the win was a perfect welcome to the new CEO South African Mazingiza, who replaced the former CEO Crescentius Magori. “As you know, we have the new CEO and this victory is a good welcoming gesture to him,” he said. Moreover, the coach revealed that he was a bit disappointed with the way they conceded a goal just few minutes after the team’s current leading goal scorer Meddie Kagere put his side ahead deep inside the first half. “They (Mtibwa Sugar) had one shot on target in the first half from a corner kick which consequently led to the goal. We failed to concentrate on that and clear the danger. This is a lesson to us for the next matches and we must not concede goals easily like that,” said he. Aussems hailed their opponents for staging what he described as intensity, tempo and aggressive football display. “It was a good game with a good team which was well organised but all in all, claiming maximum three points is what matters a lot,” he said. On his part, Mtibwa Sugar Head Coach Zubeiry Katwila conceded the defeat, saying that they need to wake up and aim high in their upcoming league matches. “We tried our best to win the match but failed to make the best from our efforts. It is time to encourage the players for them to do better next time,” Katwila said. He added that Simba were good in pressing and deprived them freedom to dominate the game a situation he said to the some extent enabled the hosts to win the game. “The league is still afresh such that anything can happen. Losing and winning is just part of the match,” Katwila uttered.