TANZANIA has continued improving health services as part of implementing Goal 3 of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aims at ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages, thanks to collaboration between the government and health stakeholders. There are many things that have been done to improve health services in the country, including constructing more modern hospitals, health centres and dispensaries across the country. This has been going hand-in-hand with training more medical practitioners and purchasing modern medical equipment so that patients, who were once referred to specialised treatment in overseas hospitals, could be treated home with similar expertise. This time, however, a digital mammography system, also called full-field digital mammography (FFDM), in which an X-ray film is replaced by solid-state detectors that convert X-rays into electrical signals similar to those found in digital cameras, has been launched. This new technology is meant to improve prevention and management of non-communicable diseases. This being the case, Tanzania is now the second country in sub-Saharan Africa to install the digital mammography system with the next generation 3-D digital technology after South Africa. This system has been installed in the Dar es Salaam-based Aga Khan Hospital and according to Regional Chief Executive Officer, Aga Khan Health Services, East Africa, Sulaiman Shahabuddin, the Radiology Department at the hospital has pioneered investment in advanced technologies to enhance diagnosis, which plays a key role in modern treatment of patients. Above all, he said, the new technology played a key role in the early detection of breast cancer. Representing the Dar es Salaam Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Yudas Ndungile, the Regional Dental Officer, Dr Daisy Majamba, said breast cancer was the second most common cancer in women after cervical cancer and the second leading cause of cancer mortality among Tanzanian women. Dr Majamba noted further that it was predicted that there would be 82 per cent increase in the number of new breast cancer cases diagnosed in Tanzania by 2030 with an increase of 80 per cent in breast cancer deaths by 2030. But if this technology is well utilised it means there will be a significant reduction in the number of cancer cases and deaths as the disease will be early detected and patients will receive timely treatment and be cured. It is in light of this, that we want to commend all efforts made to improve health services in the country and we are sure that if this fire is kept burning it means the quality of life of many Tanzanians will improve, including their reproductive health and life expectancy. We ask the government to continue working with health stakeholders to improve health services in the country and quality of Tanzanians.