CHINESE national and two employees with the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with five counts relating to importation of substandard nonwoven bags. They are Zuopo Wang, alias Michael, a director of Waadilifu Co Ltd, who resides at Mbezi Beach, Wasalim Msilamgunda and Aman Mollel, both quality assurance officers employed by TBS, who reside at Baruti and Namanga in the city, respectively. The charges against them include conspiracy to commit an offence, leading organised crimes, unloading for Tanzania market products non-conforming to the requirements of Tanzania’s standards and abuse of positions. Before Resident Magistrate Victoria Mwaikambo, the accused were not allowed to enter any plea to the charges because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate informed the accused that the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything in the case. As there was no restriction to bail, the magistrate directed the accused to go to the High Court, which is vested with powers to try the case for bail consideration if they so wished. The case was adjourned until September 17, 2019 for mention, as investigations are still going on. State Attorney Janeth Magoho told the court that on unknown dates and places in the commercial city of Dar es Salaam, the accused conspired to commit the offences of authorising the importation into United Republic of Tanzania substandard non-woven bags. It is alleged that between August 2 and 8, 2019 in Ilala District, being public officials and in violation of their functions, Msilamgunda and Mollel advanced the objective of a criminal racket by allowing the importation into Tanzania 255 bales of non-woven bags valued at 73,885,531/97. Such bags, according to the prosecution, do not conform to TBS standards. Within the same period, being a non-public official, but in collusion with the two TBS employees, Wang intentionally advanced the objective of a criminal racket by importing into Tanzania the bales. On August 17, 2019 at Mbezi Beach (Makonde) in Ilala District, the Chinese national was allegedly found by inspectors from the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) and TBS with 255 imported bales of bags from China into the United Republic of Tanzania. The court was also told that between August 2 and 8, 2019 in Ilala District, being employees of TBS and inspectors, jointly and together, Msilamgunda and Mollel, intentionally abused their positions by failing to perform their functions and duties, as a result they authorised the importation of the bags.