SIMBA’s newly hired Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Senzo Mazingiza said he will thrive to turn the club’s supporters into potential customers as a step to make it big in the continent. The South African made the pledge shortly after being officially named as the new CEO by the outgoing CEO Crescentius Magori, during a media briefing held yesterday in Dar es Salaam. Outlining his priorities once taking the office next week, Mazingiza reiterated that turning Simba fans to customers will be among his starting point while in office. “I have been following Simba for a couple of months and realised that they have big fan base in the country. We need to turn these people from just be members to potential customers of the club such that whatever they contribute should be directly benefiting the club,” Mazingiza said. He added that another area is to seek new sources of revenues for the club for it to have adequate income to run smoothly. “Development of new businesses will lead us to get new revenues which are very important to drive the team forward,” he said. Moreover, the new Simba boss pointed out that he will also fast track the whole issue of internal structuring of the club, which he said will lead to transformation of the entire club. “I understand that Simba has junior as well as women teams, which needs to be uplifted to fly high the entire brand of the club. We must make it the selling brand in Africa,” he said. He therefore urged the club to be patient since transformation takes time, while also calling for transparent and collective leadership for all those who are involved in running the club. Additionally, Mazingiza said from what he has seen so far, Simba has ability to defend the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) plus excelling in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), SportPesa Cup and Mapinduzi Cup respectively. “Despite being eliminated from the CAF Champions League, Simba has many competitions which if they can work hard, they are able to go further,” he said. Again, he revealed that he was particularly impressed with big turnout of people on Simba Day, saying it was extraordinary and urged Simba passionate fans to continue packing the stadium to capacity whenever their team is playing. He also wished Taifa Stars all the best in their 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar qualifying match against Burundi set today at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Earlier, Magori described him (Mazingiza) as a big asset for Simba, saying he has experience in sports management. “He previously worked with big teams in South Africa like Orlando Pirates, Platinum Stars and worked at South Africa Football Association (SAFA). He was also part of the World Cup organisers, which was played in South Africa in 2010,” Magori said. He also said the post attracted eight applicants, six were Tanzanians while the remaining two, one was American and the other from South Africa.