Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Minister Mwalimu said that the remaining five per cent accounts for complicated cases, which will soon be fixed under the government plan to have the cases handled within the country. Ms Mwalimu was speaking during the launch of Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKIC) established small heart mis- sion camp under the auspices of the Sharjah Charity Interna- tional under the United Arabs Emirates (UAE) to provide heart surgeries to 60 vulnerable children in the country. The minister said in the past, the government used to spend 100m/- to each patient referred abroad for treatment but the cost of referring patients abroad, especially India for treatment, has been cut down, thanks to advanced ser- vices at JKCI. She said the number of patients referred abroad has declined as a result of the government heavy investments that have seen improvement of treatment resources at the health facility. Ms Mwalimu said Tanzanian specialists handled a mere 35 per cent of heart surgery relat- ed treatment in the country by 2015 but the rate has increased to 90 percent. “When I joined the ministry, I had a list of many patients seeking treatment abroad but we have managed to cut down the number by 95 per cent... patients are now receiving treatment within the country under the care of our own experts,” she said. The minister said in 2015, JKCI attended to 624 heart patients but the number increased to 2,056 in 2018, leading to reduction of referrals abroad and boosting the country’s capacity in providing surgery services. She said the government remains committed to advance heart surgery services in the country to ensure all surgeries, including the complicated cases are handled domestically. “The aim is to ensure JKCI becomes a tourism hub on health services,” she said, adding that currently, the hospital receives patients from Rwanda, Malawi and DRC. The minister said the government has plans to expand the hospital by setting up another building that will help in accommodating and providing surgery services at the institute. “In the current financial year, the government released 1.5bn/- to JKCI for purchase of health facilities for theatre number three,” she said, reaffirming the government commitment to further improve the services at JKCI. Commenting on the launch of the heart camp at JKCI, the minister said the medical team from Sharjah Charity Group in partnership with JKCI experts will conduct heart surgeries to over 50 children from vulnerable families in the country. “I really thank you on behalf of the government for your support and commitment to work with us to ensure people especially children from vulner- able and marginalised families access surgery services,” Ms Mwalimu said, adding that the eight day camp will lead to operation of open heart surgeries to between 15 and 20 children. The mission camp started on September 13, this year and is scheduled to end tomorrow. Among the children to undergo the surgeries includes 10 under the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner’s (RC) funding. The minister commended RC Paul Makonda for his efforts to solicit funds from his friends to support the needy children to undergo the treatment.UAE Ambassador to Tanzania Abdulrahman Marzooqi said his country is committed to continue helping Tanzania in providing treatment services and other support to the people.“This is not the first time we are helping Tanzanians, we will sustain our support even in future,” he said