THE government said prepara- tions for the upcoming East Af- rican Community (EAC), Arts and Culture Festival, dubbed Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival (JAMAF- EST), are on front pedal with a call for many Tanzanians to embrace the event. Tanzania will host JAMAFEST for the first time in Dar es Salaam from this Saturday to 28th at the National Stadium with a number of activities lined up to light up the biggest Arts and Culture event expected to attract six nations. Briefing the media yester- day in the city was the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwaky- embe, who reiterated that Tanzania has been highly honored to host the 4th edition of JA- MAFEST. “As government, we are do- ing everything possible to make sure that we stage the most memorable festival to surpass other nations which have previ- ously hosted it,” Mwakyembe said. He added that the main purpose of JAMAFEST is to celebrate, protect and promote African culture whereby during the event, people have opportunity to display various things which are locally made by Africans themselves as one way to show the world the rich culture diversity available on the continent. “On top of being the host- ing nation, we want Tanzanians to actively take part throughout the event by showcasing different Arts and Culture activities we are known for globally,” he said. Minister Mwakyembe said entry charges for the eight day eventful festival is free hence a rare chance for people from all corners of the country to attend. He also disclosed that security will be beefed up to ensure that everyone who comes to the event goes back home without being hurt bearing in mind that Tanzania is widely known as a peaceful country. Moreover, Mwakyembe said the National Organising Committee (NOC), will among other duties ensure that transport system within the city is operating smoothly to simplify movement of people to and from the JAMAFEST hosting venue. “Though not yet con- firmed, we expect either President John Magufuli or Vice- President Samia Suluhu Hassan to grace the opening ceremony on September 22nd as one way to show how significant the event is to the country and en- tire EAC block,” said him. He also revealed that a special song for the event has been composed by Tanzania artistes which will be sung on the opening day of which some of them are Peter Msechu, Rich Mavoko, Lina Sanga and many others. “We have also requested Nassib Juma ‘Diamond’ to join his colleagues on the opening day to spice up the event despite him having music tour in Iringa,” said Mwakyembe. On his part, Tanzania Film Board (TFB), Executive Secretary, Kiagho Kilonzo said during the event, there will be competition of Best African Film collected from all the six nations whereby the best three films will be awarded.