PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday told Ward Executive Officers (WEOs) to confidently perform their duties, saying, “You are my representatives at the ward level. ”The president warned the ward executives against undermining themselves and the positions they serve. But, Dr Magufuli scolded some of whom he accused of turning themselves into middlemen in land selling deals in their areas of jurisdiction or dealing in illegal sale of lands corruptly, triggering land disputes. The president’s meeting with the ward executives from across the country at the State House in Dar es Salaam was a continuation of his programme to meet various government executives. He had already met regional and district commissioners, regional and district administrative secretaries as well as district executive directors. “Don’t undermine yourselves and perceive yourselves as weak. As you leave here, I want you to go back to your work places believing that you are strong. There should be no one to harass and devalue you,” he told the crowd of officers. Dr Magufuli counselled the WEOs that they have powers to take measures against top government officers misbehaving within their wards. “For instance, there could be a leader having bad attitude of fighting in bars…through writings report them to high authorities or write to me directly,” the president stated. He further instructed the ward leaders to get out of their offices and visit wananchi to listen to and fix the community problems. He further directed the local leaders to control criminal acts by identifying and have details of guests visiting their areas. He argued that peace was fundamental tool for development. After his speech to the ward executives, the president offered time to listen to their challenges, views and recommendations. Earlier, Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Dr Laurean Ndumbaro said it had never happened since independence for the president to meet with ward executives. Dr Ndumbaro stated that the ward executives serve as supervisors of government policies and plans at their jurisdictions. “You should read and understand the election manifesto of the ruling CCM so that you can effectively supervise implementations of all pledges,” he said. The Permanent Secretary challenged the officers to hype various projects that the government has so far implemented, citing transport and water infrastructures.