STORIES of women who have played key roles in different leadership areas should be documented for future generations, the TGNP Executive Director, Lilian Liundi has recommended. Speaking at a Round Table Panel Discussion at TGNP Mtandao in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Lilian said there are women in Tanzanian history who have made commendable contributions, but unfortunately, nothing about them has been documented. She invited participants to share stories about women leaders, to share them with TGNP Mtandao that recently forged partnerships with Women Fund Tanzania (WFT) and SOMA, to make sure that history of such leaders don't fade away. Lilian stressed that some women in the past made some efforts in Tanzania's Independence struggle, but history had forgotten them, simply because they were women. "There was a movement in Pare land, Kilimanjaro Region known as 'Mbiru' where women staged demonstrations against their men being forced to pay head tax. The political administration of the time heeded the women, and waved that tax system," she said. She cited another example in Kondoa Irangi, where women walked over to a mountain to pray over a certain calamity that women were facing, which was later granted by 'gods'. She stressed that there is a need to document famous women like Bibi Titi Mohammed, Binti Matola and Tatu Bin Said who helped Mwalimu Nyerere to fight colonialism and later the country attained Independence in 1961. "Women have unique circumstances that play a big role in making them successful both at home and in their professional careers. Women’s circumstances also guide what they respond to in being mentored, as well as what inspires them," she told over five hundred participants in the event. This year's Gender Festival has brought together women’s rights activists from a wide variety of backgrounds, to reflect on the progress of the Transformative Feminist Movement (TFM), celebrate its achievements, and share lessons, challenges and counteractive strategies.