GLOBALLY most governments hope and struggle to bring positive changes to their citizens as their sole task, but what is missing in some of their systems is technical approach. This technical approach is seen as the ability to address the challenges they face using a tailored intellectual and measurable context, which requires patience and a willingness to learn and recalibrate. In Tanzania, this is the story of one such approach: A successful collaboration between the government, its local authorities and stakeholders to have a transformative effect on the livelihoods of cattle farmers. A case study in January 2018, only 14 out of 103 cattle dips in the Local Government Authorities (LGAs), of Buchosa, Kwimba, Misungwi and Sengerema were functioning and operating to serve the locals. For whoever may not know, a cattle dip is a bath designed to immerse livestock in liquid pesticide or other treatment to rid the cattle of ticks, which carry diseases such as East Coast fever and anaplasmosis. According to National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), 2006 study, the total annual national loss from tick-borne diseases in the country was around 364 million US dollars, including an estimated mortality of 1.3 million cattle. However, to save the situation and increase the regular use of cattle dips, Dalberg Implement, a project implementation business of Dalberg-a global development- focused strategic advisory firm with offices in Dar es Salaam, teamed to work with Tanzanian and LGAs through the Agriculture Transformation Programme in a three-year programme funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The project seeks to drive cultural change within the public-sector agricultural system by introducing more effective and efficient delivery models. In the course, by April in the same year the number of cattle dips in operations had increased to 60 and the herds being ‘bathed’ per month had risen four-fold. The reasons for this dramatic success was surprisingly ordinarily based on stronger law enforcement, persistent sensitisation of farmers on the benefits of dipping, and alignment across leadership levels as well as proper financial and operational management. And yet the remarkable revival of the cattle dip programme, achieved with minimal financial investment, sheds light on how to create traction, while working both with and within governments to illustrate how others can achieve similar outcomes. Speaking about the initiative, Dalberg Implement (3D), Project Officer, Ines Muganyizi said “they realised that the goal of the project was not only to repair or build more cattle dips, but we worked to ensure that cattle dips were used by livestock keepers and sustained over the long term”. Dalberg carried out an assessment to understand the real causes of failure and found that old or damaged infrastructure, a lack of technical skills, conflicts caused by ambiguities in ownership or a lack of fair representation of villages sharing the infrastructure and poor management by dip committees and village authorities often led to the misallocation of operational funds. “We designed appropriate activities to address specific challenges and assigned clear responsibilities,” she said. Teams across the four LGAs were deployed to conduct sensitization seminars and the workshops bridged knowledge gaps in the communities on the benefits of dipping, besides motivating the residents and government leaders to accept and share responsibility in sustaining dipping operations. Dalberg reviewed progress and strengthened intervention to respond to peculiar situations encountered on the ground. For example, in Buchosa and Kwimba, a hybrid team of livestock and cooperative officers trained livestock keepers on disease control, financial management and record keeping responsibilities. “In Misungwi, the number of operating cattle dips was included in the performance targets of Livestock Extension Officers, and a Livestock Officer was appointed to track weekly progress,” Ms Ines added. Talking about shortcomings found and corrective measures taken to address them she said that they used problem-solving techniques and learning from the field to design an easy-to-adopt framework for managing cattle dip operations. “Lack of accountability and oversight often led cattle dip committees to misappropriate funds….Eventually, cattle dips shut down due to a lack of funds to buy chemicals and undertake repairs,” she said. To address this, Kwimba pioneered a system of checks and balances, where the system involved a signed contract between dipping committees, the village government that oversees them and the LGA. They also opened a designated bank account for dipping funds to enhance accountability. Where necessary, Kwimba’s funds were injected as either acaricide revolving fund and/or to ease repairs. LGAs also enforced by-laws mandating livestock keepers to dip their cattle and this encouraged regular flow of activity and funds for maintaining cattle dips. Livestock Officer in Misungwi District, Mwanza Region working with the President’s Office Regional and Local Government (PORALG), which coordinate implementation of government programs in Tanzania, Benedicta Mtolera said they shared successes among districts, while escalating hurdles to the regional and ministerial levels. It was important to draw best practices from the LGAs and transfer them to other LGAs to achieve scale, Ms Mtolera said. For example, the tools for cattle dip management developed by Kwimba are now used in Buchosa, Misungwi and Sengerema. Similarly, the Buchosa multi-disciplinary approach to bring together livestock, land, law, cooperative and community development officers proved very successful in other LGAs.’ Ms Mtolera said: “at a regional level, our team is supporting the Regional Secretariat (RS), to convert lessons learned into easy-toapply practices”. Part of the approach involves the RS deploying a task-force to track implementation progress with consistency; engaging with LGAs to identify hurdles and championing the creation and application of cost-effective solutions. At a national level, “we leveraged our strategic partnership with PORALG to communicate the success in Mwanza and to encourage country-wide adoption,” Mtolera said. In the past, calves’ mortality from tickborne diseases such as anaplasmosis, East Coast fever and heart-water was high. “Things are much better now. I am able to dip my cattle once every week and I am very satisfied with the results. “My cows have no trouble eating. As a result, milk production has improved,” Ms Scholastica Malimi, a cattle keeper from Itumbili Village, Buchosa, said. These positive results were possible because of effective resource mobilisation, strong political will and enhanced accountability on results.