YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera (pictured) said he was not necessarily looking for wins in two friendly matches they played in Mwanza but rather work to create team chemistry. Yanga will face Zambia’s Zesco United on Saturday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first round, first leg of CAF Champions League (CAF CL) and the reverse leg is expected two weeks later in Lusaka, Zambia. A win by Yanga in both legs will see them jumping into the group stage of the competition, if they fail to succeed, they will be demoted to the CAF Confederation Cup. The Jangwani Street based club officially wrapped up their camp pitched in Mwanza on Tuesday with a 3-0 win over Toto Africans, with Congolese striker David Molinga scoring a brace, while Deus Kaseke scored one. It was the last friendly clash for Yanga, who previously recorded a 1-1 draw against resolute Pamba FC, who hit first in the opening half forcing the visitors to came from behind to level the deficit. In his post-match media briefing, Zahera reiterated that he was not looking for victories but creating a good chemistry among his charges ahead of Zesco tie. “The approach we used here during the two friendly games is not the same we will employ against Zesco United because they are a different team. I was looking for proper coordination among players and not results,” he said. He added that the pace of attacking during Zesco clash will not be the same as seen in their two friendlies they played in Mwanza. Moreover, the coach said striker Patrick Sibomana, who went back home to play for his Rwandan national team will come back refreshed and consequently help a lot to boost his side’s striking department. He continued that of late, another hit man Juma Balinya has positively transformed and as long as he plays, he will get his goal scoring boots. “I am surprised that many people are commenting negatively about Balinya and Molinga (David) that they are not worth strikers. Balinya scored 21 goals in Uganda Premier League, while Molinga netted 13 goals to his name in the DR Congo Premier League. They are good strikers who just needs more time to adapt and gain confidence,” he said. In a related development, Zahera lauded the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), for pushing ahead their Vodacom Premier League (VPL), match against hosts Mbeya City. The match which was initially set for September 18th this year at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya will now be staged on date to be announced later. “I am very happy with the decision made by TFF to push ahead our VPL match against Mbeya City. It will give us enough preparations ahead of the CAF CL return match to be held in Zambia against Zesco United,” he said. Moreover, Zahera said Tanzania football is growing as evidenced by the latest qualification of Taifa Stars into the group stages of 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar, an achievement he said should not be taken for granted. “The success of the national team will lead to the growth of local clubs in the country. Imagine, big names in the continent as far as football is concerned like Cameroon and Senegal each has two teams competing in CAF CL and CAF Confederation Cup but here, you started with four teams something which is commendable,” he said. Meanwhile, Zesco United head coach, George Lwandamina has named a strong 19 member traveling squad for the trip to Tanzania to face Young Africans. Lwandamina has included left-back Fackson Kapumbu, who has struggled with fitness since December 2018. The usual suspects Jesse Jackson Were, Umaru Kasumba, John Ching’andu, Kondwani Mtonga, and Jacob Banda have all made the squad. Zesco were due to fly in Dar es Salaam yesterday, ready for the clash.