YOUNG Africans admitted that the three match ban imposed on Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera will have negative impact on the team, saying his physical presence during games matters most. The suspension came after the coach was convicted of breaching the league's dressing code, during the Mainland Premier League match against Ruvu Shooting at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on September 27th this year, in which Yanga lost 1-0. The newly introduced regulations require all technical bench members to put on uniforms designed for the technical bench. It regulations further state that in case a coach decides not to wear special uniform, he is then required to dress smartly. The ban means Zahera will watch from stands his team's crucial two away matches against hosts Mbeya City and Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya plus one match they will play in Dar es Salaam against league debutants Polisi Tanzania. Reacting to the ban was the club’s Chairman, Mshindo Msolla, who described the decision as a big blow to the team, especially at this time when they desperately need victory after a poor a start into the season. “Without him for three matches is a big blow for the team but if you look at the other side of the coin, we have the Assistant Coach, (Noel Mwandila), who will take charge of the team's affairs,” Msolla said. He added that they have taken a lesson and they will not repeat the mistake to avoid falling into the same trap. Additionally, Msolla revealed that the team's trio of Farouk Shikalo, Suleyman Mustafa and David Molinga will again miss the upcoming CAF Champions League (CAF CL), encounter against Zambia's Zesco United on September 14th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam because they are yet to be cleared by CAF. “According to the directives we have received from CAF, the three players will be featured in the competition's group stages only if we manage to see off Zesco United,” he said. Going into the clash against Zesco, Msolla said they have given the technical bench all required resources to make sure that they emerge winners on the day. “We have provided them with the sort of training they wanted and friendly matches they requested. Moreover, we have established a new system whereby players are given allowance every week as one way to motivate them,” he said. He also said the players have already been given bonus as promised by the leadership after downing Botswana's Township Rollers in the preliminary round of CAF Champions League. Giving updates on players’ injuries, the chairman said only Issa Bigirimana is the one going through medication after picking a knock in Botswana, while the rest are in good shape. He then called Yanga fans to come in numbers at the 60,000 capacity stadium to rally behind their team as they want to step into the group stages.