TODAY, I have to respond to many queries that have been raised by my esteemed readers following my last week piece on that phraseology of getting smart to the crime. Incidentally President John Pombe Joseph Magufuli last Sunday while swearing in government officials at the State House suggested to Director of Public Prosecution Biswalo Mganga to consider those offenders willing to confess and compensate for their crimes to be released. Is this not one of the best humane ways of dealing with crime? This could be a new smart move compatible to our socioeconomic situation, a more humane approach relevant to our culture in dealing with offenders just like the Rwandese introduction of the “Gachacha” that received world acclaim in dealing with the influx of the prisoners of awaiting trial after the genocide! The world today believes in getting smart to the crime rather than getting tough to it. It is unnecessarily expensive to get tough to the crime and its impact to both criminals and the state budgets are profound while doing little to increase the public safety. Furthermore, the so-called toughness to the crime imposes enormous costs on public funds and can impede economic development. It has been very expensive to keep those suspects involved in those cases which have taken more than three years. Nowadays imprisonment does not mean to break the rocks or grinding the stones, that sense has changed. Undoubtedly, the condition of modern prison system is far better than that in the past but still much remains to be done in the direction of prison reforms for humane treatment of prisoners. The maintenance of prison establishment is an expensive affair. It is in fact a burden on the public. The finite resource base cannot effectively sustain health attention to all offenders in their treatment and in that way. Why not try other smart options which have been proved to work very effectively and efficiently in addressing reoffending attitudes? Hopefully this new approach would work! Therefore offenders should be confined to the prison for only a minimum period which is absolutely necessary for their custody. The elimination of long term sentences would reduce undue burden on prison expenditure and other alternatives should be worked out. This would help in the inmate’s rehabilitation and after release can face the outside world courageously casting aside the stigma attached to them on account of imprisonment. It is debatable, should we have a big number of long terms serving prisoners as a labor force in prison or manageable number of prisoners who can effectively be rehabilitated and lowering the recidivism rate of prisoners? The concept known as transformative justice, “reintegrative shaming and restorative justice” is the way to go in attaining that smartness in crime prevention with minimal expenses. The rehabilitation activities of the modern prison are generally of two kinds, namely psychological, psychiatric treatment and Educational or vocational training programmes. Emerging out of Age of Enlightenment, treatment approach to offenders is thought to be more humane and responds to individual rather than the offence per se. Criminals are considered to be “dis-eased” in some manner, and thus in need of corrective intervention- analogous to approach used in medicine. Therefore criminals are assumed to be treatable. Thus the treatment of offenders requires inmates to be diagnosed for their needs and risks for the relevant correct classification. The treatment of inmates is based on • The medical or treatment model: Offenders can be diagnosed by intake assessment instruments for their needs and risks after which appropriate programmes are selected to assist them. • The reformatory model: Provision of education, vocational training or occupational skills. • The reintegration model: Smooth social reentry to the community as a law abiding citizen commonly referred to as transformative justice through half way houses. A successful performing criminal justice system is that one which can control recidivism through innovative smart ways that are compatible with our local culture. Custody Care and Treatment are the three main functions of a modern prison organization. Gradually, the objective of imprisonment has changed from mere deterrence to deterrence, rehabilitation and reintegration. This led to the abandonment of some of the barbaric punishments and introduction of the system of awards for good work and conduct in the form of remission, review of sentences, wages for prison labour, treatment in open conditions, parole. Revision has now been made to meet adequately the basic needs of food, clothing, medical care etc. Educational and vocational training programmes along with training in scouting have been introduced in jails. Custodial requirements for individuals are now at some places determined on the basis of their antecedents, conduct and performance. The modern penological approach has ushered in new forms of sentencing whereby the needs of the community are balanced with the best interest of the accused on programmes like community service, parole and other conditional sentences. The demand for harsh punishments to offenders by the criminal justice system the community at large coupled with population growth, socio-economic development and urbanisation, has increased prisons population while the number of existing prisons is insufficient to accommodate the escalating number of both remands and convicted offenders forcing unintentionally to infringe the prisoners human rights. The need for criminal justice system to get smart to the crime is indispensable. mgosiwasui87@gmail. com +255754342711 Senior citizen Board Member Penal Reform International, Prison Corporation Sole, Author of Books