TANGA Cement has called for more taxes on clinker and a review of taxes on its raw materials to support domestic production of the raw materials for cement. The Managing Director of Tanga Cement, Reinhardt Swart said in Tanga over the weekend that the government should impose more taxes for clinker imports as they were currently cheaper and discouraging local production of the materials. He told business reporters who toured the plant that levies imposed by local government authorities on limestone and sand used for clinker production should also be reviewed to support domestic producers of the raw materials used for cement production. Low taxes on clinker imports and high taxes on limestone and sand make local production of clinker more expensive than imports despite its multiplier effect since they contribute to the local economy and jobs, he said. According to him levies imposed by the local government authorities include construction materials levy of 1,000/- per tonne of limestone and 500/- per tonne of red soil extracted for clinker production. He, however, said the cement maker could not think of going back to import the raw materials for cement production after commissioning the second integrated cement production line with a new kiln in 2016 at the Tanga plant and in consideration to the jobs made and revenue generated through local production of clinker. “It is an easy calculation to make but a challenging decision to make,” he told the reporters who toured the Tanga plant. “The government needs to think over…the importation of clinker is not healthy for the economy of the country and for the development of local cement industries,” he said. Tanga Cement, which trades as Simba Cement at Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE), started producing clinker at its Tanga plant after commissioning the second integrated cement production line with a new kiln in 2016. TCPCL produced the first clinker from the new kiln in December 2015, in accordance with the original project plan. Installed capacity clinker production increased from 2,290,000 tonnes in 2015 to 5,565,000 in 2018, according to the Managing Director. Local production of clinker has helped to lower operating costs and added additional sale of excess clinker. TCPCL produced the first clinker from the new kiln in December 2015, in accordance with the original project plan. The new kiln more than doubles TCPCL’s production capacity with the new installed clinker production capacity increased significantly.