TAIFA Stars today take on their Burundian counterparts in Bujumbura in the first leg of the Fifa World Cup qualifier and there are two things that need to be underlined, as far as this particular match is concerned. One, both teams had qualified for the Afcon finals which was hosted by Egypt, mid this year and secondly and more importantly, Burundi is no longer a pushover team and this ought to be borne in mind by our boys! Indeed, gone are the days when Burundian national football team along with their respective soccer clubs used to be thrashed by like a bunch of school boys. The tiny central African nation (with 27,000 square kilometres) which goes more than twice in our Selous Game Reserve has made so much progress in the game in the last few years that Taifa Stars’ temporary coach who would be managing the team in Bujumbura today is a Burundian. What does this mean? To understand the question, simply consider this. When Tanzanian football teams-- the national team and clubs included, used to thrash their Burundian counterparts, our teams were being trained and led by local soccer coaches. Today that is no more. We don’t seem to have any more local soccer coaches left and when I say we don’t seem to have, I mean local coaches who can handle Taifa Stars and that is the kind of degeneration this country is in when you talk about soccer growth and development. If we no longer reputed coaches who can manage our national team, how does one expect Tanzanian clubs to progress? The country’s top clubs like Simba, Young Africans and Azam are managed by well-paid foreign coaches. But as you read this article, one of the country’s hopes in the continental clubs soccer tournaments, Simba, are as we all already know, out of the run after being knocked out in the first, preliminary round the presence of a highly paid foreign coach notwithstanding. And our hopes are now pinned on two clubs much as we have three clubs in the run, namely, Young Africans and Azam. The third club, Malindi is very much unlikely to go to the third round and please don’t ask me why. You may criticize foreign coaches in our clubs if you like, but that would be utterly wrong because a foreign coach, no matter how good he is, cannot turn, overnight, local players who lack basics in the game. For top flight foreign coach to produce good results you need local coaches to prepare and provide young, local talents with the basics of the game and that can only be done in a soccer academy. But because we don’t have local coaches who are well trained in handling and providing children with football basics, our main source of players is through the streets and such players, as I have repeatedly said in these columns, lack football basics. Now Burundi is currently different from us because the majority of their players are presently going through soccer academies and that is why they managed to qualify, for the first time in their history, in the Afcon soccer finals in Egypt this year. And if you look at the present crop of the Burundi national soccer team, they are more youthful than our players and that is where the word, NO PUSHOVER, is coming from. Yes, Taifa Stars would be expected to work extremely hard today if they want to make a good start in this Fifa World Cup qualifier. Much as I would very much like our team to start well today, but it may not be easy, the presence of players like Mbwana Samatta, Simon Msuva and other foreign based players notwithstanding. For instance, I’m not sure whether the Burundian tactician has succeeded in solving Taifa Stars’ two main problems, lack of concentration, especially in the first minutes of the match and lack of fighting spirit. No matter how good Taifa Stars are in their day, they always end up losing a match they had almost won through lack of concentration and fighting spirit. They did that even after leading, twice, in a match against their northern neighbour, Kenya, during the Afcon soccer tournament in Egypt! But we all saw the Burundi performance in their Afcon debut. Although they lost all their three matches, but they fought more forcefully than our team, we lack the spirit to fight. They need to work hard from the start to the end of the match. Even if they score and lead by a goal or two, they need to continue attacking as if nothing has happened. That is the way teams win matches these days, but not getting satisfied by a goal or two. It does not any longer work in the present, day modern football. Taifa Stars need to defend while simultaneously scoring as many goals as they can. Otherwise, I have nothing more to say except to wish our boys all the best in the match which is expected to be a cracker.