TANZANIAN envoys for Qatar World Cup 2021 mission, Taifa Stars must not take the advantage of having played a 1-1 draw with Burundi as clear passage to the group stage, instead extra efforts are needed in the return leg this Sunday. Taifa Stars secured the vital draw through Simon Msuva’s late equalizer that gave the team, lifeline to sail through into the next stage of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, African qualifiers. Though the away goal will be a sticky detail for Burundi as it gives Taifa Stars an edge ahead of the return leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam this Sunday, players must put in mind that Burundi would play in Dar es Salaam as wounded bulls, hence cautions and precautions are needed most in Dar es Salaam this Sunday. From that fact Burundi will need an outright win or a high scoring draw to go through, therefore Stars and the technical bench need to efficiently curb that threat. What Taifa Stars under Burundi-born coach, Etienne Ndayiragije need a win or barren draw at home, this means they have to avoid a defeat at any cost. We insist Taifa Stars to work hard and clear Burundi hurdle because doing it means a lot to Tanzania. If they succeed to eliminate Burundi, the country’s football status at both continental and global levels will automatically escalate. Tanzania played at a play off stage as among the 28 lowest ranked teams on the continent; Hence if they win they will be among 14 nations to be promoted to the group stage, joining 26 highly ranked nations. Our players need to realize that though they serve their nation they are actually also promotion their names and their skills, hence they must take this mission seriously. While ending up by commending the players and the technical bench for the good job, we again insist Taifa Stars to fight bravery and intelligently to win the second leg by any margin and win group stage ticket. All the best Taifa Stars we bank on you to win the crucial tie and so to improve our FIFA world rankings. DAILY NEWS