IN this 21st century in human development, where man has tried to make the world become one village to live harmoniously as one people regardless of language, culture, race and religion, it is pathetic that some are still egocentric unreasonable. Countries are uniting to do business and reason together in blocs worldwide and just to be precise in Southern African Development Community (SADC), member countries are united to achieve economic development, peace and security, and alleviate poverty to raise standard and quality of life of the citizens, but some few people are not supporting their governments. These are few people backpedaling the bright ideas of the governments in the name of xenophobia and fetched reasons, which in the short and long run would not help. These people should know that as a continent, the citizens belong to the same father though from different mothers and want one another to do business and live together harmoniously and this is what the Pan-Africanists and founding fathers of the nations like Nelson Mandela, Samora Machel and Mwl. Julius Nyerere wanted. The spirit of Nyerere and other pan-Africanists wanted to bind us together as one continent so that one day Africa will be one nation–the United States of Africa. It is unfortunate that with civilization man has attained to reason and preserve lives, some are still killing others and looting their property just because they do not speak their language and address them as ‘foreigners.’ Think of lives and property being lost because of xenophobia feeling without perpetrators realizing that they are brewing a war they will never tame. It is good President Cyril Ramaphosa as an elder has condemned and vowed to clamp it down. The President said: “I’m convening the ministers in the security cluster today (recently), to make sure that we keep a close eye on these acts of wanton violence and find ways of stopping them. The people of our country want to live in harmony; Whatever concerns or grievances we may have, we need to handle them in a democratic way. There can be no justification for any South Africans to attack people from other countries.” In another statement on Monday, the South African Human Rights Commission said it was “deeply concerned by violence, looting, arson and vandalism plaguing much of Johannesburg.” In the past few days rioters (criminals), have caused chaos in Johannesburg, South Africa’s commercial hub, torching vehicles and looting shops. Many of which are owned by foreign nationals this should be condemned and the looters brought to book, whatever the reason they have. As SADC comprising of Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe, such ugly scenes should not be allowed to emerge because they discouraged the spirit and morale of the citizens to move, do business and live in any part of the bloc freely.