RECENTLY Tanzania opened a consulate in Guangzhou, China, which besides enhancing bilateral ties has a lot to do with socioeconomic and cultural interaction between people of the Republic of China and the formers. On the note it should be noted that the presence of the embassy in the area, will include protecting interests of Tanzanians, who temporarily or permanently reside in Guangzhou and its environs on passports and visa issuance among others. As the Consulate becomes the representation of Tanzanians in public administration in the foreign country, this is an opportunity for both the parties to exploit more economic advancements. The Embassy should not only specialize on offering immediate and personal assistance to Tanzanians in the country but go to the extent of replacing lost passports, assisting injured or ill travelers, and assisting with marriages, births and adoptions. But this should not present a refugee for drug traffickers and other criminals, who might take the advantage not to adhere to Chinese laws and regulations. It should be a milestone as pointed out by the Minister for International Relations and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, during the 70th Anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of china in Dar es Salaam, recently for both countries to gain. “China remains Tanzania’s largest trading partner, with 19.3 per cent of Tanzania’s imports in 2017/18 originating from China. It is also Tanzania’s largest source of foreign direct investment (FDI), with investment stock of over 700 projects valued at $7.1bn and creates over 87,000 jobs,” he added as some of the sole reasons for expanding the embassy activities within the country. With Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) also starting new direct flights from Dar es Salaam to Guangzhou, which also in a way would enhance and speed up the mobility of the countries’ people, trade interaction and tourism not only between China and Tanzania, but also between China and other Asian nations and East and Southern Africa. It was good Prof Kabudi hinted to the public that people-to-people exchange between the two countries had existed for over 55 years, and China had continuously dispatched up to 2,000 medical workers to Tanzania, besides the growing number of Tanzanian students in China currently hitting 4,000. It was also good and encouraging to both countries’ nationals as Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania Wang Ke pointed out that her country was/is willing to work with Tanzania and other African countries to implement eight major initiatives of the 2018 Beijing Summit Forum on China–Africa Cooperation, and closely integrate the implementation of the African Union’s Agenda 2063. “I wish Tanzania’s achievement on its envisioned industrialization goals under the leadership of President John Magufuli become possible,” she said, implying that her country (China) is not only a partner in Tanzania’s goals’ achievements, but also has the same feelings with the fifth phase government.