THE newly introduced electronic business licensing system will increase government revenue collection, minimise paper work and the time spent by traders, it has been said. Online Registration System (ORS) is a system operated by the Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (Brela). Brela Director of Business Support Bakari Mketo told ‘Daily News’ in an interview that six councils had been identified as pilot areas, where business people were trained on the importance of adopting the new e-licensing system. He named the councils to include Chalinze, Mafinga, Bukoba Municipal Council, Ilala, Karagwe and Mwanza City. He noted that contrary to the old system where a business person was required to travel long distances to Brela and municipal offices to get a business licence, traders would access the licences electronically by using their smartphones and the Internet. “This is a big achievement. Business persons will get their Class A business licences using their smartphones and the Internet. The system will increase government revenue, transparency and minimise paper work and time wasted to get a business licence,” he said. Mr Mketo was speaking during a national business portal (NBP) workshop, which was attended by over 100 business persons in Bukoba Municipal Council yesterday. He appealed to Tanzanians to utilise the service to increase their business volume where employers, including district executive directors (DEDs), were also urged to ensure traders under their jurisdictions got social skills. “Councils should establish a special desk to assist traders on how to fill business licence application forms electronically. The new electronic system will come into effect starting on October 1, this year,” he said. Bukoba municipal economist Melkisedeck Kalinga noted that about 3,925 traders were eligible to get e-licences, while plans were underway to issue identification cards to petty traders after paying a 20,000/- fee. President John Magufuli recently expressed dissatisfaction with the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA)’s performance on revenue collection, saying the amount collected did not match with the actual number of Tanzanians. He asked TRA to pull up its socks by having effective strategies to increase revenue. He was speaking during a meeting that brought together TRA officials, regional commissioners, regional administrative secretaries, heads of various government agencies and some ministers across the country. He urged TRA to increase the number of taxpayers, create a good environment to do business and demonstrate fairness when estimating and collecting tax from traders. Tanzania’s population is estimated at 55 million people, but only 2.5 million of them pay tax, which gives a proportion of 12.8 per cent of the GDP. Kenya has a population of 46.6 million, while 3.9 million pay tax, the proportion of 18.5 per cent of the GDP. Rwanda has a population of 11.6 million, out of whom 1.72 million are taxpayers. Uganda has a population of 37.7 million people and 1.3 million taxpayers.