EUPHORIA and sense of security gripped the family of formerly conjoined Kisarawe twins, Precious and Gracious when the United Bank for Africa (UBA), officially handed over a house the financial institution promised, with the aim of improving the children’s living conditions. The bank’s intervention came in handy as it rescued the fragile and recovering children from despair as it was discovered that soon after a successful operation at MNH, that their environment was not conducive due to poor housing conditions. What they used to call home then was a dilapidated house that could expose the children to health complications, prompting Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), to mobilise stakeholders to help provide decent housing and living conditions for the twins. MNH in collaboration with Kisarawe District authorities, UBA and the Seychelles consulate finally chipped in and made arrangements for the construction of the house. The consulate purchased the plot while UBA funded the construction of a two bed roomed house with toilet and kitchen facilities. Inaugurating the house yesterday, Kisarawe District Commissioner (DC), Ms Jokate Mwegelo commended all stakeholders who contributed their resources to ensure that the family’s living conditions were improved. She said that the construction of the house has taken a long time because there were some family issues which needed to be settled first before commencing the construction work. The DC said that the new house at Mzenga guaranteed the survival of the twins because it was close to important services such as health and security. “This family was living in the interior and it was difficult to access their village because it was a 150 kilometer drive from Kisarawe town...the place had no reliable services such as health, water and electricity; thus the environment was not conducive for the health of these twins,” she said. Ms Mwegelo directed the Mzenga division officer to ensure that they provide a title deed on time, bearing the names of the twins and not otherwise. For his part UBA Tanzania Ltd Managing Director, Usman Isiaka said his institution pledged to construct the family’s house, provide a ten year insurance cover for the infants and opening of a savings account to guarantee their future. “After almost a year long of close contacts with the family and Kisarawe, UBA finally was able to provide 2m/-for the family welfare, built a modern house and provide medical insurance,” he said. He applauded the Kisarawe DC for her support which has enabled the family to move from their former village in Kimara Msale, Kibaha to a much more developed village of Mzenga.