Dear Readers, TODAY, in this column, I have my mind on a scary childhood illness that is common in Tanzania. I have my mind on childhood rubella (surua). Incredibly, the illness also attacks pregnant women causing miscarriages or ruining the health of the unborn babies. Later, in this article, I look at the ravages caused by measles (rubeola), another childhood illness. Rubella is a viral illness that causes a mild fever and a skin rash. It’s also called German measles, but is not caused by the same virus that causes measles. Rubella is spread through contact with fluid from the nose and throat. It can be prevented with a vaccine. Babies and children who get rubella usually only have a mild case of the rash and some respiratory symptoms. It is imperative to mention at the outset that rubella can be a dangerous infection for a baby in the womb. It can lead to miscarriage or birth defects. Rubella is caused by a virus. The virus spreads through fluid from the nose and throat of an infected person. It can also be spread from a pregnant woman to her unborn baby. A child born with rubella is considered to be contagious until he is one year old. A child is more at risk for rubella if he is around a person with rubella and has not had the vaccine. It may take 14 to 21 days for a child to have signs of rubella after contact with the virus. Symptoms can occur a bit differently in each child. The most common symptoms start with a period of not feeling well. Then a low fever and a runny nose follow. Diarrhoea often afflicts the victim after one to five days. Then a skin rash appears. Quite often the rash starts on the face with areas of small raised lesions. Then it spreads down to the torso, arms, and legs as the face rash clears up. The rash may fade in three to five days. The ailing child may also have enlarged lymph nodes in the neck. An older child may have sore, inflamed joints. A child is most contagious when the rash is appearing. But he may be contagious from seven days before the rash to seven days after the rash has started. Because of this, a child may pass the virus to others before a parent or caregiver knows he is sick. The symptoms of rubella can be like other health conditions. Parents or caregivers should make sure the child is taken to a healthcare provider for a diagnosis. The healthcare provider will ask about the child’s symptoms and health history. The doctor will give the child a physical exam. The unique rash may be enough to diagnose the child. The doctor may also have blood or urine tests to confirm the diagnosis. Treatment will depend on the child’s symptoms, age, and general health. It will also depend on how severe the condition is. The goal of treatment is to help ease symptoms. Treatment may include a lot of rest for the child and making sure he drinks a lot of fluids. The infection will go away on its own in five to 10 days. As hinted before, rubella is dangerous to a baby in the womb. It can cause a pregnant woman to have a miscarriage. A baby in the womb can also get rubella from his mother during pregnancy. This can lead to severe birth defects known as congenital rubella syndrome. Signs of this syndrome can include cataracts in the eyes; deafness; heart problems; learning problems; growth delay; Enlarged liver and spleen; skin lesions, bleeding problems and others. Rubella can be prevented with the rubella vaccine. The rubella vaccine is often given as part of a combination vaccine. The vaccine includes protection against measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR). The vaccine is usually first given when a child is 12 to 15 months old. The vaccine is given again the child is aged between four and six years. Parents should make sure that their child’s friends and caregivers have had the MMR vaccine. In addition, girls should have completed the MMR vaccine before they reach childbearing age. If a child has rubella, parents and caregivers can help prevent the spread of the virus. Ailing children should be kept at home for at least seven days after the start of the rash. A child born with rubella is considered to be contagious until he is one year old. A few years ago, Tanzania carried out a rubella vaccination campaign that reached 21 million children. Indeed, the massive public health campaign tackled the leading cause of deafness and blindness in children. Apart from immunizing against rubella and measles, health workers distributed vitamin A supplements and deworming tablets. They also treated children and adults for neglected tropical diseases such as elephantiasis. But tackling rubella was central to the campaign, given the impact of the disease. When a woman is infected with the virus early in pregnancy, she has a 90 percent chance of passing it on to her unborn child. This can cause miscarriage, stillbirth or severe birth defects known as congenital rubella syndrome which can result in deafness, blindness and heart problems. About 100,000 children are born with congenital rubella syndrome each year in the developing world. Yet rubella is easily preventable. The disease has effectively been eradicated in many countries since the introduction of the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR), vaccine in the 1980s. The number of countries introducing the rubella vaccine is increasing. However, only 130 of the world’s 193 countries deliver the rubella vaccine as a routine part of national immunization programmes. The UN estimates that this covers only 42 percent of children. Tanzania became the second country in sub-Saharan Africa, after Rwanda, to introduce a dual vaccine to protect children against measles and rubella. The campaign targeted children aged nine months to 15 years in Africa’s sixth most populated country. More than 12,000 schools and 6,600 health facilities were involved, making it a huge logistical challenge. One of the key challenges was reaching rural communities and making sure parents understood the dangers of rubella. In Tanzania, the dual vaccine was delivered as part of the WHO’s implementation of the global measles and rubella strategic plan 2012-20. Rubella, also called German measles or three-day measles, is a contagious viral infection best known by its distinctive rash. Until the rubella vaccine is integrated into all national immunization campaigns so that we can reach every child, the dangers of rubella will remain high for pregnant women and their unborn children. Rubella is not the same as measles (rubeola), though the two illnesses do share some characteristics, including the rash. However, rubella is caused by a different virus from measles and is neither as infectious nor usually as severe as measles. The measles-mumps-rubella (MMR), vaccine, which should be administered on kids twice before they reach school age, is effective in preventing rubella. Rubella is a mild infection. Once a woman has had the disease, she usually permanently immune. Some women with rubella experience arthritis in the fingers, wrists and knees, which generally lasts for about one month. In rare cases, rubella can cause an ear infection (otitis media), or inflammation of the brain (encephalitis). However, if a pregnant woman contracts rubella, the consequences for her unborn child may be severe and in some cases, fatal. Up to 80 percent of infants born to mothers who had rubella during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy develop congenital rubella syndrome. This syndrome can cause one or more problems, including: growth retardation; cataracts; deafness and congenital heart defects. There can also be other defects in other organs and intellectual disabilities. The highest risk to the fetus is during the first trimester, but exposure later in pregnancy also is dangerous. Usually babies are protected from rubella for six to eight months after birth because of the immunity passed on from their mothers. If a child requires protection from rubella before 12 months of age the vaccine can be given as early as six months of age. But children who are vaccinated early still need to be vaccinated at the recommended ages later. Now, let us look at what measles is. Measles (also known as rubeola), is a respiratory illness caused by a virus. The illness causes a blotchy rash. It’s a very contagious illness. The measles virus lives in the mucus in the nose and throat. It is spread from one child to another through contact with fluid from the nose or throat. It is also spread by an infected child coughing and sneezing. A child is more at risk if he has not had the measles vaccine, and is in contact with anyone who has measles. A person is contagious about four days before the rash breaks out, so a child may have contact with the virus without knowing it. It may take seven to 14 days for a child to develop symptoms of measles after contact with the virus. A child may pass the virus to others before parents or guardians know he has it. The early phase of the illness lasts between one and four days. Symptoms are like those of an upper respiratory infection. The most common symptoms include: runny nose; hacking cough; pink eyes and fever. After two or three days other symptoms crop up. These include severe diarrhoea and small spots with white centres (Koplik’s spots), on the inside of the cheek. Then deep, red, flat rash starts on the face and spreads down to the torso, arms, legs, and feet. The red rash starts as small lesions that combine into one big rash. After three to seven days the rash will start to go away. It will fade in the same order it appeared. It then leaves a brown-colored area and peeling skin. The symptoms of measles can be like other health conditions. Medical treatment will depend on the child’s symptoms, age, and general health. It will also depend on how severe the condition is. Antibiotics are not used to treat this illness. The goal of treatment is to help ease symptoms. Treatment may include making sure the child drinks more fluids. Acetaminophen can clear fever and discomfort. spmwita@yahoo.com