THE use of mercury in mining has been cited as one of the dangerous practices affecting both the miners and the environment. Delivering closing remarks at the climax of three day commemorations of 50 years of the geology profession in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, the Minister of Minerals, Mr Doto Biteko, said the government had signed a world treaty banning the use of mercury. He pointed out that the government signed the treat given the fact that the chemical in question was dangerous to users and their surroundings. Mr Biteko noted that geology was one of the cross cutting professionals, calling on geologists to support the government in ensuring that an alternative to mercury is adopted, to save the environment from degradation and people’s health from diseases. “We hope that your union will help the government especially in protecting our resources. You should also support the government in ensuring that our minerals are legally mined. NEMC will give a grace period on the use of mercury in mining,” he said. Mr Biteko pointed out that geology as a profession was very crucial in mining, a sector which was also crucial for the country’s economic development, adding that geologists have a role to play in achieving the 2025 middle income and industrial status country goals. “I would like you to focus on changing this country and make it a better place rather than focusing on changing your own lives. You should also be reliable and credible in the way you do your work,” he said. On his part the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) Director General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka, reiterated the danger of mercury use, emphasizing that the government cannot allow people to risk their lives and threaten the environment in search of wealth. He said the government had good intentions of helping small scale miners to grow, adding that there were many ways of mining and some were still being researched with the intention of improving small scale miners’ working environment. “We will find alternative methods to help small scale miners shun the use of mercury to protect their health and environment as well and make sure that they lead a better life to be able to enjoy what they earn,” he said. Dr Gwamaka noted that there had been several challenges amongst small scale miners, adding that most of those are due to lack of appropriate technical support from geologists and environmentalists. “There is a need for adequately educating small scale miners on geological matters. We will otherwise continue to have accidents in mining sites until we find ways of helping our people,” he said. Dr Gwamaka who is a geologist pointed out that there was a big relationship between small scale miners’ activities and the environment