UNIVERSAL Postal Union’s (UPU) member countries, including Tanzania, reached an agreement on international remuneration rates here last week, with the rates scheduled to become effective next year. Under the new arrangement, the postal remuneration system—the terminal dues system— will see postal offices being compensated for the cost of handling, transporting and delivering bulky letters and small packets across borders. UPU is a UN specialised agency with its headquarters in the Swiss capital Berne. Established in 1874, it is one of the world’s oldest international organisations and is the primary forum for cooperation between postal sector players. Tanzania is an active member of UPU since 1963 and has been a member of the Operations Council since 2016 for a period of four years. The country’s delegation to the third extraordinary congress was led by the Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication (Communication Sector), Dr Jim Yonazi and assisted by Acting Permanent Ambassador United nation Office in Geneva. As a background, on October 17, last year, the United States wrote to UPU over its withdrawal from the union, protesting the terminal due system that was agreed by the Istanbul Congress but stated that it won’t if a solution to the remuneration rates system was found. The union was committed to attainment of the noble aims of international collaboration by working with all its 192 member countries to ensure that the treaty best serves everyone. In finding a solution on the remuneration dispute, UPU called for a vote to hold an extra ordinary Congress. The decision, which took place during the second day of the Geneva meeting, will see the UPU accelerate rate increases to the system used to remunerate the delivery of inbound international bulky letters and small packets, phasing in self-declared rates starting as soon as 2020. The Extraordinary Congress approved the proposal, known as “Option V,” by acclamation on 25 September 2019. There were options known as A, B and C and all these did not provide an acceptable solution to all member countries. The agreement approved by member countries sees UPU accelerate rate increases to the system for remunerating the delivery of inbound international bulky letters and small packets. Self-declared rates are to be phased out starting 2020. Furthermore, under the agreed solution, member countries that meet certain requirements – including inbound letter-post volumes in excess of 75,000 metric tonnes– will be able to optin to self-declare their rates starting July 1, 2020. Thresholds are included to protect low-volume, developing countries, Tanzania included from the impact of the swift reform. Before the approval of the new remuneration system, Tanzania supported the motion to consider Option V. In his statement, Dr Yonazi commended the good work UPU was doing and called for member countries to support the proposal. “The United Republic of Tanzania joins other delegations in thanking you Chairman and UPU Director General for the manner in which you have steered the affairs of this third extraordinary Congress,” he remarked. Speaking during the press conference last week, Assistant to the President of the United States and Director for Trade and Manufacturing Policy and Head of the US delegation Peter Navarro said, “Today a White House team working closely with UPU Director General and a broad coalition of friends and allies in UPU has more than achieved the President’s goal.” Closing the third Extraordinary Congress, UPU Secretary General Ambassador Bishar Hussein congratulated around 800 representatives from over 130 countries for reaching an agreement on the postal remuneration rates. He told the Congress that ‘no challenge was too big or too high if we put our minds to it,’ thanking member countries for solving a problem that just a few months ago looked insurmountable.