GAMING has always been a popular form of entertainment. In recent years it has blossomed into one of most profitable games in the entertainment thanks to a boom in mobile technology which has revolutionised the industry. In Tanzania, after economic liberalisation policy and reform programmes which stimulated investment projects in hotel and leisure industry, we witnessed rapid growth of the gaming activities that made the industry one of important revenue earners for the government. The rapidly growing industry currently contributes over three per cent of the Gross Domestic Product with revenue contributions to the government set to increase to 96bn/- in the 2019/20 financial year, up from 78bn/- made in the 2017/18 fiscal year, according to information obtained from the Gaming Board. It has become no longer a niche arena for a certain age group or consumer segment. With the advent of mobile gaming and improvements to hardware used in playing these games, gaming has become a viable form of entertainment for players from all backgrounds and ages. However, despite being an important source of revenue for the government and attracting investments in the hotel and leisure industry which create more job and trade opportunities, gaming activities has its dark side. The industry is destroying lives of some of our most productive people through addiction leaving them in a mess both physically and mentally. The government restricted limiting excessive promotion early this year following growing public concerns over negative impact of gaming activities on the youth. It also made some notable changes to the taxation of the gaming activities. Government measures notwithstanding, gaming activities are increasingly being treated as a source of income by many people. Gaming income, which includes any money earned from gambling, whether it be winnings from casinos, lotteries, raffles, bingo or betting, has become so attractive that it has hooked a significant number of the youth. It is for that reason, we commend efforts of stakeholders in the industry to promote responsible gaming, a relatively new concept in Tanzania that calls for gaming operators, software suppliers and associated service providers to uphold to ensure their offerings uphold the highest standards to ensure a fair and safe gaming experience that protects players from the adverse consequences of gaming and gambling. We support their initiatives to come up with policies and requirements to make sure they respect the highest standards of quality, and offer a safe user experience that protects people from the negative consequences of gaming activities. It is important that while the industry thrives, these activities should be treated as a fun pastime, and not as a means to generate income. We hope and pray that people will be treating gaming activities as recreation and spend only what they can afford to risk.