AZAM FC have been put on a tight angle as far as progressing to the next round of CAF Confederation Cup is concerned after losing 1-0 to Triangle United of Zimbabwe at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The Zimbabwe based side took the lead in the 34th minute of the first half through their captain Raph Kawondera and his goal remained unanswered to the end of the tense match. The away win gave the visitors an upper hand ahead of the return leg to be held in Harare, Zimbabwe two weeks later. It was a simple ball inside Azam’s penalty box of which Azam defenders failed to clear the danger and consequently gifting Kawondera a golden chance to punish them. With the results, the home team will have to win at all costs to cruise into the next stage of the competition and from the displayed performance, the home team has a big mountain to climb for them to capsize the Zimbabweans who played with much confidence. The first half saw each team playing aggressively with intention to hit the leading goal but it was the visitors who managed to score first after seizing a seemingly defensive lapse at Azam backline. Prior to that, the hosts had many moves towards the visitor’s goal, but most of their attempts were easily dealt with by Triangle concrete defense which looked well organized throughout the opening half. The golden chance for Azam came in the 13th minute when Obrey Chirwa missed a sparkling scoring chance as his final attempt went over the bar despite being at the best striking position to put his team ahead. Again, in the 28th minute, Azam won a set-piece outside the penalty box, a good area to get a goal but the final attempt was far from the intended target to the relief of the visitors. At the restart, Azam continued from where they left aiming to get back into the game through making the score line balance but it was the same old story. This forced the team’s Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije to make his first substitution calling out Richard Djodi for Shaaban Chilunda in the 54th minute but the latter was again taken out few minutes after coming on to the surprise of many people. A long range effort by Idd Seleman in the 70th minute narrowly went off the target as Azam were piling pressure towards the United goal to get the eagerly awaited equaliser. As time elapsed, efforts to claim the tangible results by Azam didn’t get what they targeted, hence they will entirely depend on the second leg to make the best in the competition. According to statistics, it was the first loss by Azam in international games at their turf since 2014. In Majunga, Madagascar, Malagasy champions Fosa Juniors played out a 0-0 draw with five-time winners, TP Mazembe in the first leg of the Round of 16 clash on Sunday in Mahajanga. The result leaves the Malagasy side dreaming ahead of the second leg in Lubumbashi as a scoring draw is all they will need in the least to pull them into the group stages. DR Congo giants, Mazembe had chances in the tie to earn a priceless away goal with Christian Kouame coming close two minutes to full time with a shot off a Masengo Ilunga pass going over. Glody Likonza had an effort go into the net in the 76th minute, but it was ruled out for offside. The home side also had their fair share of chances especially in the opening half but could not find their way past a watertight Mazembe defense. The Congolese host the reverse in a fortnight with the winner advancing to the lucrative mini-league stage.  