THE Vice-President, Samia Suluhu Hassan, yesterday led thousands of mourners in Dar es Salaam to pay their last respects to the body of Nelson Mabeyo, son of Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) Venance Mabeyo, who died in a plane crash on Monday. Nelson was described as one of the youngest Tanzanian pilots whose dream had initially been to become a medical doctor, but abruptly changed his mind and switched to the piloting field instead. Reading the eulogy of the deceased, his elder brother, Dennis Mabeyo, told mourners that Nelson changed his mind after completing his Ordinary Level studies in 2012. “He pursued piloting studies at the United Tanzania Aeronautics College from 2013 to 2016, where he was awarded a diploma in aircraft and maintenance engineering. Then he joined the US-based Florida Flyers Flight Academy for further piloting studies and returned home in 2017. The deceased also attended air craft related courses at the 43 Air School in South Africa before he was hired by the privately owned Auric Air Company,” he explained. Giving a word of thanks, the father of the deceased told mourners that a few days previously, his son told family members that he dreamt of operating airbuses. According to the father, Nelson had already applied for a job in Air Tanzania, was hired and was waiting to go for training of piloting Bombadier in Canada. “Indeed, we are deeply grieved because the son dreamed of big issues. People have been telling us that Nelson was among the best pilots whose ability and capacity on planes’ landing and take-off was credible. His death is God’s will. It is not a punishment but the symbol of God’s love for Nelson and all of us,” stated the CDF. Presiding over the holy mass, Auxiliary Archbishop for Dar es Salaam Arch-diocese Eusebius Nzigilwa urged the mourners to always put God on the front throughout their life time. He said that two main things, prayers and work, should dominate the life of human beings, with God being put at the front all the time. “Talk to your God first before you do anything. Go for prayers in your homes and worship houses in search of God’s Kingdom. Always consider love, forgiveness and mercy. You cannot be forgiven if you do not forgive,” preached the clergyman. The life of Nelson and his co-pilot Nelson Ulotu, were claimed in the air crash occurred in Seronera area of Serengeti National Park, in Mara Region on Monday morning. The young Mabeyo’s body was flown to Simiyu via Mwanza yesterday for burial, scheduled for today.