IN what could be described as a rare scene, President John Magufuli pounced on the famous Vingunguti Slaughterhouse to get firsthand information on the progress of the construction of a modern abattoir. This was on Monday afternoon and he directed the project to be completed by December this year. Unlike other visits to construction sites, where special arrangements are made for the President, including availability of safety gear, this time the President only cared about the progress of the project worth 14bn/-. After launching the radars at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) and the Pipe Industries Company Ltd in Dar es Salaam, President Magufuli made an impromptu visit to the project site located a few kilometres from the latter company. When addressing the gathering during the launch of the company, he expressed his dismay at the slow progress of the new project. The famous slaughterhouse, which serves most parts of the city and its environs, has been for many years in a poor state. Its infrastructure, including the slaughtering area, a sewage system and others are in a bad shape. Several government leaders have been visiting the area to hear from traders and their complaints. This situation prompted the fifth phase government to consider constructing a new slaughterhouse with modern facilities. When the President was launching the Pipe Industries Company Ltd he said he was wondering why the project had taken so long to kick off, citing a prolonged discussion among councillors on the contract. “Why the project is taking so long while the government has already set aside funds? I will one day make a surprise visit to the site,” he told the responsible authorities, including Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda, Ilala District Executive Director (DED) Jumanne Shauri and councillors. At about 3pm, leaving many people unaware whether he would go to the project site, he decided to visit it. The President entered the construction site after his aides had removed some iron sheets that were enclosing the area and was able to see what was going on at the construction site. After having a brief view of the construction site, the President pressed the officials of the National Housing Corporation (NHC) contracted to construct the new slaughterhouse as well as Ilala DED and the Dar es Salaam RC for explanation. NHC Engineer Elisante Olomi, who is in charge of the project, told the President that they had been given the project in June this year and expected to finish it in 18 months. “Why this 14bn/- project, which involves the construction of a one-storey unit, should take 18 months?” the President queried. He then asked the crowd whether they were happy with the progress of the project and they replied with a big No. One of them, Mr Joel Meshack, told the President that they expected that the project would be completed in one year after its process started over six months ago, but it had been slowly implemented. After hearing their concern, the President gave until December this year to complete the project and allow traders to use the new slaughterhouse. The President further directed the authorities not to collect any levy from traders until the new slaughterhouse was completed.