DEFENDING champions Simba displayed blitz footb all to end their poor record against Kagera Sugar w ith a clean 3- 0 w in in the Mainland Premier League clash at the Kaitab a Stadium in Buk ob a yesterday. Meddie Kagere scored twice and Mohamed Hussein netted one in a match they should have won by a bigger margin. However, Simba knocked off Kagera Sugar to reclaim the driver’s seat at the 20-team league with maximum nine points from three matches. Kagera Sugar with the same points dropped to second on goal difference, but they have played four matches. Prior to yesterday’s clash, Kagera Sugar collected nine points from their past three league matches against the Reds. The yesterday’s match started in a high tempo with both teams searching for an early opener, but with jinx to kill, Simba looked a side more likely to score. After several near misses, Kagere provided a goal scoring feast just after four minutes from the kickoff, netting the opener in a packed-to-capacity crowd venue. The Rwandese striker headed home a perfect cross from Deo Kanda, who had raced to a brilliant through pass from impressive Ibrahim Ajib. It was Kagere’s fourth of the campaign. After going a goal down, Kagera Sugar failed to recover and the response to Simba’s goal was extraordinary as the host sat on their zone. Simba smothered the hosts in midfield, with Muzamiru Yassin, Ibrahim Ajib and Sharaf Shiboub in incontestable form, completely overpowering Zawadi Mauya, Awesu Awesu and Ally Ramadhani. And, down the wings Simba were deadly as Kanda switched flanks with Kagere, while wing backs –Shomari Kapombe and Hussein in powering form up front threatened frequently with deadly crosses. In the 20th minute, Shiboub made a Zinedine Zidane like spin turn past defenders but his shot was blocked to a fruitless corner kick. A minute later, Kagere almost beat goalkeeper, Said Kipao but his shot narrowly missed the target. Simba continued to pile pressure and in the 23rd minute Shiboub’s feeble shot was easily gathered by keeper and seconds later Kagera Sugar threatened, when David Luhende’s cross in found Yusuf Mhilu in space but goalkeeper Aishi Manula tipped his shot for a corner kick. In the 27th minute Awasu’s set piece came off the wall. After half an hour mark, a cross in by Hussein almost found Kagere in space but keeper Kipao was smart, as he acted swiftly to palm the danger away. 35th minute Simba scored a well built up team goal. After give and take passes from the centre of the pitch, Kagere flicked on the path of Hussein to coolly netted past sprawling goalkeeper. Kagera Sugar were totally outclassed, and glint of hope was lost when Hussein scored a well built-up second goal in the 35th minute. The goal came after giveand- take passes from the centre of the pitch, Kagere flicked on the path of Hussein to coolly netted past sprawling goalkeeper. Three minutes before the interval, Kagera Sugar’s Zawadi Mauya escaped red card after he appeared to have openly kicked Ajib thrice. He was shown a yellow. The first half was a Simba monologue. After the second half, Kagera Sugar brought in experienced defender Juma Nyoso and Peter Mwalyanzi. To some extent, Mwalyanzi made relentless efforts to penetrate the tight Simba defence to no avail. In the 58th minute, Manula spilled Awesu’s corner kick but Tairone Da Silva cleared the danger. Simba introduced Miraji Athumani, replacing Kanda and the youthful attacker brought more energy upfront. In the 62nd minute, Athumani thought he had scored the third, as he pounced on a drop ball spilled by keeper Kipao, following a stinging shot by Ajib but referee ruled it out for an offside. It was just a case of how many more goals the Msimbazi Reds were going to score as they maintained pressure but they lost injured Ajib, who was replaced by Hassan Dilunga. In the 75th minute, Shiboub missed a glittering opportunity to net the third after receiving a nice pass from Athumani but his shot was parried off by keeper. Then, Kagere’s overhead kick was cleared off line by Nyoso, but it was 3-0 in the 77th minute, when Athumani won a spot kick after being fouled in the box by Mauya. Kagere stepped up sent the keeper the wrong way for his fifth goal of the season. With three minutes to go, Brazilian Wilker Da Silva was introduced to make his league debut for Simba, replacing a two- goal hero Kagere. A third consecutive victory for Simba was just the tonic ahead of fourth league match against Biashara United of Mara.