KIBAHA Town Council has put in place strategies to make industry and trade sec- tors contribute over 50 per cent of the council revenue. Currently, the sectors contribute only 37 per cent of income despite industrial boom in Coast Region. Within three years of implementation of the fifth phase government's industrial agenda, the region has at- tracted over 1,190 industries. Kibaha Trade Principal Officer Rashid Kilambo said mapping and distributing land to investors was a major source of revenue to the council. Over 50 per cent of the council's annual revenue comes from land it has set aside for trade and investment. Mr Kilambo explained to ‘Daily News’ yesterday ahead of the Industrial Exhibition and Business Forum in the region early next month. The events are among the steps the region has taken to promote industrial products in the region to attract mar- kets and increase tax collection. The Coast Regional Com- missioner's Office, in collaboration with the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited and the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (Tantrade), has organised the events to take place from October 1-7, this year. Coast Regional Commissioner Evarist Ndikilo said at least 100,000 people were expected to visit this year's exhibition and forum. Using its media platforms, TSN will be reporting the events. Mr Kilambo further explained that other strategies in place to increase the con- tribution of the trade and in- dustry sector in the council was to set aside more land for industrial investment, citing 1,200 hectares of land set aside for that purpose in Ze- gereni. "There is already requi- site infrastructure for invest- ment in this place, including electricity, water and others. So, we welcome investors to acquire land for investment," Mr Kilambo said, noting that there were other 8,000 hectares prepared for investments. "We don't have bureaucracy in giving land to investors," Mr Kilambo assured. Moreover, he cited ongoing efforts to construct modern markets for both agricultural produce and industrial products as measures to help industries and traders had markets for their products. "We expect to have many shops so that traders get formal places to conduct their businesses," he said