MUHIMBILI National Hospital (MNH) has recorded tremendous success in cochlear implant surgery, with domestic specialists proving aptitude in performing the medical operations by 90 per cent and activate the hearing devices by 100 per cent. MNH Director of Surgical Services Dr Sufian Baruani told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the development was an indication that Tanzanian experts had enhanced their capacity in performing cochlear implant surgeries, guaranteeing the sustainability of the services in the country. Dr Baruani said when the service was introduced in the country in 2017, the procedures were performed by foreign experts by between 80 and 90 per cent, noting that to date Tanzanian experts were able to switch on cochlear implants without any assistance from foreign experts. He was speaking during cochlear implant switch on to nine children and an adult who underwent the medical operation one month ago. “After undergoing cochlear implant surgeries, patients have to wait for one month before switching on the devices…we used to depend on our foreign counterparts for this procedure but now we can do it by ourselves,” he said. Dr Baruani said that the ten patients were among 30 beneficiaries of the service since it was introduced two years ago. “We were depending on foreign experts in switching on these devices but today we are so excited because our experts activated them without any assistance from foreigners… we are now competent in this area by 100 per cent,” he said. He further said that cochlear implantation to 30 patients within 26 weeks was equal to 60 per cent of 50 patients who were referred abroad in a period of 13 years between 2003 and 2016 when the service was not available in the country. Dr Baruani said so far the government has spent 1.1bn/- for treatment of 30 patients in the country, noting that if they were referred abroad, they could have spent 3bn/- , about 100m/- for each patient. Treatment within the country costs 37m/- per patient. He assured the public that no patient will be denied services due to lack of money because there is in place a system of serving the needy patients. Eye, Nose and Throat (ENT) Surgeon at MNH Dr Shaban Mawala said hearing loss cases have been increasing not only in the country but also globally. He said according to the national hospital’s survey and estimations an average of 200 children in the country will need the service per year. According to experts, if children will be detected with the problem earlier and treated, they will live normal lives but when they miss out the service they will become deaf. He said according to World Health Organisation (WHO) out of 1,000 children, it was estimated that between two and three children were being borne with profound sensorineural hearing loss and they were the ones who need to undergo cochlear implantation. Dr Mawala noted that MNH statistics indicated that 95 per cent of patients in need of cochlear implants were children thus the service was highly needed in the country. He said that there were various reasons which contribute to the hearing problems in children such a infections such as meningitis and yellow fever.