AS the government strives to empower its poor population in the country, on the other hand, underprivileged women have never relaxed until they are sure their families attain better living conditions. Through its anti-poverty programme, which is coordinated by Tanzania Social Action Fund (Tasaf), women have been wellpositioned as the custodians of conditional cash grants dished out after every two months in their homes. The women in Singida are now in possession of a lined asset registered under their names, including owning pieces of land,modern houses, farms and reliable income generating activities. Such assets are a result of the little money amounting from 20,000/- to 40,000/- obtained through Tasaf under components, including conditional cash transfers (CCTs) and public work progammes (PWPs), whereby the beneficiaries get an additional income for participating in a project for 60 days during the lean season. The women made this revelation recently, while speaking to Tasaf staff and reporters, who are on a tour to acquaint themselves with the activities of the programme. Ms Edith Makala (53) defied the odds to ensure things in the family move despite the hardships she endured to take care of her five children and the husband, who spent most of his time drinking beer. She was ready to embark on every small business idea that came across her mind so that she could manage family affairs and ensure her children go to school. The mother of five placed the children’s future in the forefront before anything else and was why she has been toiling daily from selling roasted maize to other small income generating activities. There has not been a day that the 53-year-old woman thought that she would once fail to even buy a Panadol to give to her sick children, but it was a reality. After her husband Bryceson Makala, who then worked with Twiga Cement in a good position was sucked from office, the family had never known how it felt like to miss a meal in a single day was like until the ordeal came. According to Ms Makala, the husband went through a critical depression and turned into a heavy drunkard and in most cases he would steal from her the little money she made from the roasted maize business. “Imagine my capital was only 5,000/- and I would make a profit of 3,000/- to 4,000/- and he would take all of it just to drink alcohol, while there was no food in the house. It was really difficult for me. At times I wanted to give up, but I thought of my children who by then were very young and I did not want them to go through the same experience as I did,” she said. When things went from sour to bitter, the family decided to move from Tanga to Singida whereby they had a 14-room house and only four of them were fully-furnished. Life did not get any better for her and the children were in secondary school except one, who was still very young. Ms Makala had to use the house as collateral to get a 2m/- loan, but the house could only meet a few of her needs, including rent and schooling. Eventually, she failed to repay the loan and the house had to be mortgaged for only 6.5m/-, while its real value stood at about 28m/-. She only recovered 400,000/- after all payments, including interest charges. Then, in 2014 when she heard of Tasaf, she was among those interested in enrolling in the programme and was able to receive 36,000/- - that is 20,000/- went to her savings and the remaining 16,000/- was spent on food. She continued with the small business, but she was not satisfied with it because she was eager to do more, especially to have her own sewing machine. She knew how to sew clothes, so she was able to save up to 100,000/- and bought a used machine for 180,000/- and later paid up the remaining 80,000/-. The business continued, while she joined a women’s savings group and she had set a target of depositing 19,000/- every month. As days passed by the amount increased and was able to deposit in the savings group account on a weekly basis. From her savings, Ms Makala would be able to take a loan of up to 2m/- to support her three children, who were in college at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College, Tumaini University and Clinical College at Kibaha. She managed also to buy a wheelbarrow and got the husband to stop alcohol and start supplying water. “Most people tend to underestimate small businesses, but with this you can earn a lot of money and grow your business further... I started selling roasted maize with the capital of 5,000/-, but the business expanded as days passed by,” she said. Currently, two of her children are working, one studies IT and he is now a soldier. The other one is a clinical officer at Mirembe Hospital in Dodoma.