THE Open University of Tanzania (OUT) will, with effect from this academic year, offer education scholarships to over 9,000 ward executive officers in a programme aimed at reducing the higher education gap as the country eyes industrial economy. OUT Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academics), Prof Deus Ngaruko, said the WEOs with relevant qualifications would be enrolled to degree programmes of their choice at OUT. Prof Ngaruko announced the programme in Dar es Salaam during the 25th OUT anniversary, which started admitting students in 1994. OUT has been a dependable higher learning institution in the country and the neighbouring countries for individuals seeking higher education without forcing them to leave their workplace. Teaching and learning processes are always facilitated by an ICT backed up, online and distance learning mode (ODL). "This is part of giving back to society as we celebrate 25 years since OUT started admitting students in 1994. ODL is a system where unlimited number of students can join their studies without leaving their home and workplace," Prof Ngaruko told ‘Daily News’ at the sideline of the Distance Education Association of Southern African (Deasa) conference in Dar es Salaam this week. He said in the scholarships, the aspiring WEOs would be studying while at home and in the workplace, using an online Moodle system to interact with their teachers and fellow students countrywide and the examination would be taking place at chosen centres in their respective districts, which aimed at reducing travelling costs to attend exams at regional centres. According to him, since its inception, OUT has already trained over 40,000 students in different academic disciplines in an education system that proves to be producing highly qualified professionals. "The WEOs will choose an academic discipline of their choice and study while practising what they learn on the daily basis. This makes them more competent in their studies and fully qualify to professionally improve how they contribute to national development and achieve envisaged industrial economic transformation." Speaking at the Daesa conference, Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, said ODL offered such education at a friendly environment without much of social exclusion and intensified learning which was the main tool for attaining the industrialisation agenda and the African Union Agenda 2063 and the Strategic Development Goals (SDGs). The minister noted that OUT had been leading in such endeavour by using modern ICT tools worth to be emulated by other universities in the country and the continent at large to transform individual, community and public lives.