YOUNG Africans and Z esco United coaches have been thrown into mind games, both bragging to finish the job in the decisive first round, return leg of CAF Champions League next week in Ndola, Z ambia. The two sides battled to a 1-1 draw in their first leg clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Saturday. Zesco United’s Thaban Kamusoko came back to haunt his former employer Yanga with a last gasp equaliser. Yanga were on the verge of placing one leg into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs competition, as they took a priceless lead through a spot kick well converted by Patrick Sibomana but they failed to defend their narrow lead to the final whistle. Following the results, Y anga will be required to win or register a high scoring draw away at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola for them to sail through into the group stage. A barren draw will see Y anga knocked out and drop to CAF Confederation Cup competition. The Jangwani Street side reached this stage after beating Township Rollers of Botswana 1-0 away but they are still without a home win in the competition, following a 1-1 first leg result in Dar es Salaam. And, whether it’s to motivate their own players or rile up opponents ahead of the return leg, it remains to be seen but Y anga’s Mwinyi Z ahera and Z esco’s George ‘Chicken’ Lwandamina seem to be neck on neck. Congolese tactician Z ahera, whose side has stepped up preparations for the battle, believes that his team is well armed and capable to eliminate their opponents away. He will certainly be confident with results that Y anga have been posting away in continental football. Y anga are still without a home win in the competition, following a 1-1 draw in the preliminary round first leg result in Dar es Salaam against Township Rollers but their 1-0 win away in Gaborone, Botswana is giving them much to believe in the task against Z esco. “I believe my players have what it takes to sweep past Z esco away and play in the group stage of CAF Champions and remember Y anga have been posting good result away. “I know many people don’t give us a chance to make it into the group stage of the tournament but for sure, we are going to surprise them with the very same squad that played in the first leg because we now know them (Z esco) better,” boasted Z ahera. Lwandamina, the former Y anga Head Coach is equally confident that there is no way the Jangwani Street lads will escape Ndola unscathed. “Yeah! Y anga have good record away from, even during my time we were doing much better away from home and struggle at home. Did you ask me if am scared? Z esco has never lost international game at Levy Mwanawasa don’t you think they (Yanga) must be scared?” asked Lwandamina. “I’ve been following Y anga they have made a milestone in term of improvement. The team that I left I think it is just Yondani (Kelvin) that I left. They have managed to build the team in a shortest time possible. They pressed us to the wall but with experience we resisted and built from the rear to equalise,” he said. Z esco, who are back in Ndola are said to have currently shifted focus on the local league, meaning that they are not worried about Yanga. The Z ambia Super League defending champions went straight into camp to prepare for the rescheduled MTN/FAZ Super League tie today against Nakambala Leopard