UNSTOPPABLE Simba SC maintained their 100 per cent form in the Vodacom Premier League after a 2-0 win over Biashara United at Karume Stadium in Mara yesterday. Simba’s scoring machine Meddie Kagere and Miraj Athuman, each contributed one goal to enable their side claim maximum three points to remain at the summit of the ladder with 12 points from four matches and have since scored 10 goals, conceding only 2 goals in the process. It was the sixth goal for Kagere who currently leads the scoring chart while his counterpart Athuman netted his third goal of the campaign since joining the Reds from Lipuli FC this term. Nicknamed pass master, Ibrahim Ajib provided the crucial assist via a set-piece in the 53rd minute, picking Athuman who was already well positioned in the box to nod the ball into the net to register the second goal. Also, for Simba, it was their second clean sheet after seeing off Kagera Sugar 3-0 in their previous match at Kaitaba Stadium. Coming up, the champions take on KMC at Uhuru Stadium before facing major test of the league against Azam FC on October 23rd in the city. Both teams started the match cautiously in the early exchanges not to concede a fast goal which saw the ball being played at the middle of the terrain with decimal goal mouth action. However, it was Simba who had the first test on the goal in the 6th minute when Mohammed Hussein’s shot was easily dealt with by Biashara United goalkeeper Daniel Johannes. The move was initiated by Ajib. Following series of attempts, finally, the breakthrough came in the 22nd minute as Kagere eased himself well inside the box to fire up his team from a close range bullet which was too powerful for Johannes to parry it away. Four minutes later, Athuman could have doubled the lead but his final attempt was perfectly denied by the United shot stopper. With one goal up, the visitors looked unsatisfied as they continued to go upfront in big numbers, pressuring the hosts in the process who looked defensively well-organised throughout the opening forty-five minutes. The last chance for Simba before half-time came in the 40th minute and this time around, Said Hamis (Ndemla) misused the glittering chance. In the last chapter, the hosts looked sharp to upset the visitors but most of their attempts were far from producing the intended outcome. To seal the deal, Simba’s Head Coach Patrick Aussems made three changes introducing Francis Kahata for Hassan Dilunga in the 73rd minute, Ajib was rested for Sharaf Shiboub in the 77th minute while the second goal scorer Miraj paved way for Deogratias Kanda in the 83rd minute. The defeat has since seen Biashara United pocket one point from five games to stay put on the 19th slot on the log while Young Africans tail the 20-team pack without any point. In other VPL games yesterday, Kagera Sugar were handed the second successive home defeat after a 1-0 loss to JKT Tanzania while KMC and Ndanda FC shared spoils following a 1-1 draw at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. Lipuli FC played to a 2-2 draw with Tanzania Prisons at Samora Stadium in Iringa as Mtibwa Sugar who hosted Mbeya City recorded a 1-1 draw.