TANZANIA Gender Networking Programme (TGNP) Mtandao will continue working with stakeholders that champion women’s rights until all forms of discrimination against women and other marginalised groups, whether due to class, sex, age and disability in the country are addressed. The assurance was made recently in Dar es Salaam by TGNP Mtandao Executive Director Lilian Liundi while winding up their 14th Gender festival 2019 celebrations in the city. She reminded the public that women empowerment must start from the grassroots, where majority of them have no socio-economic and political voice. Ms Liundi said that any stakeholder, be it a feminist organisation striving to contribute to building a vibrant transformative feminist movement to promote gender equality and equity, women’s empowerment and social justice will be their partner(s) in business. “The Gender Festival is an open forum for women and human rights’ stakeholders who come together every two years to share experiences and knowledge, celebrate achievements, assess challenges, deliberate on strategies and agree on recommendations and way forward. We are willing to work with willing partner(s),” she added. She noted that the festival provides an excellent opportunity for networking and coalition-building, building capacity, contributing to public debate and planning collectively for social change from a feminist’s perspective, which requires support from the public. They highlighted their past 25 years of activities in relation to the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women (FWCW or Beijing), held in Beijing, China in 1995 that was the largest and most influential of all the world conferences on women and attended by nearly 180 government delegations and 2,500 non-governmental organizations. To further improve, educate and empower women socio-economically and politically, different stakeholders attended the festival, which included Women Fund Tanzania, True Vision, Crossroads International, Global Fund for Women Championship for Equality, UN Women and Global Affairs Canada. The list also included Foundation for Civil Society and KIWOHEDE and SIDO. Commenting, a SIDO official, Hills Emmanuel, said they attended since they were training women in their Women Entrepreneurship Development (WED) programme to help them become economically a force to be reckoned with in the society. “If you empower a woman economically, chances are great that her children will go to school, get better health and be properly clothed and above all the whole family will be stable and assured of a square meal every day,” he pointed out. He said that SIDO trains women in groups to have various sources of income that include making baskets, preparing meals for participants in various events and designing ‘vitenge’ fabrics in all regions in the country. The first TGNP Gender Festival was organised in 1996 and with their grassroots partners, they have successfully organised a series of 13 such activities based on a variety of themes, and reflecting on the burning issues of the day.