Five Tanzanians this week left for Tokyo, Japan after securing scholarship opportunities under African Business Education Initiative for youth (ABE Initiative). ABE Initiative aims at offering opportunities for young and capable Africans to study for master’s degrees at Japanese universities and to experience internships at Japanese companies in order to develop effective skills and expertise in various fields for contributing to the development of industries in Tanzania. The idea to come up with the initiative was first conceived during the fifth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 5) and concluded in the recent TICAD 7, a conference that was attended by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on behalf of President John Magufuli. The initiative is in line with Tanzania’s industrialised economy and a middle-income country by 2025, as stated in the vision 2025, remarked the Assistant Director, President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Mr Elisante Mbwilo. “Since the initiative started in 2013, a total of 90 students have been able to benefit from such opportunities,” he stated. He explained that the studies focus on development of the country basing on issues concerning agriculture, industrialization, and technology. “Once they return, they are to assist in developing and improving the said sectors and the nation’s economy." Advising the scholarship recipients, Mr Mbwilo said that they should keep in mind that whatever they have chosen to study, the goal is to ultimately contribute to the country’s development agenda once they return. “Remember you are going to Japan as Tanzanian ambassadors, please represent the country well,” he also advised. He further pointed on the importance of the private sector’s role in the country’s economic development. Japanese Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Chinichi Goto said that one of TICAD7 focused areas was accelerating economic transformation and improving business environment through innovation and private sector engagement, and that ABE initiative is on this perspective. “The initiative is a solid bridge linking Japanese companies and those in Africa, the initiative that was to end in 2018 is to be continued for the next six years,” he mentioned. He noted that the enhancement of public-private partnership for developing human resources is witnessed in ABE Initiative, with strong ambitions from the private sector. “Now that the government of Tanzania is putting more efforts in creating a skilled labor force so that more local people can play crucial roles in development projects, to solve the skills gap in the industrialized middle income economy, I am sure the ABE initiative can contribute great human resources with management skills and expertise and be the country’s driving force,” he stated.