HUNDREDS of mourners, including Missenyi District Commissioner, Col. Denice Mwila, could not hold back their tears as the body of one of the conjoined twins, Anicia was laid to rest at her home in Mabare village, Bukoba Rural district on Thursday afternoon. Mr Mwila, on behalf of the Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti, paid tribute to Saudi Arabia King Abdullah and a team of surgeons who conducted a successful operation to separate the twins. “On behalf of Kagera residents, I wholeheartedly thank King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, the Saudi Embassy in Tanzania and the medical staff, including doctors and nurses at King Abdullah Children Specialist Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, who worked tirelessly to save the lives of the twins,” he said. An operation led by Saudi Dr. Abdullah Al-Rabeeah ended successfully in separating the conjoined Tanzanian twins, Maryness and Anicia at the King Abdullah Children’s Specialist Hospital in Riyadh’s King Abdulaziz Medical City. The operation, which took 13 hours to complete, was carried out via nine phases, in which 32 specialists consisting of doctors, surgeons, technicians and nursing cadres participated. This humanitarian programme has served many countries in the world, and this was operation No. 47 in the separation programme. The twins born at St Theresa Omukajunguti Health Centre in Missenyi District of Kagera Region on January 29, 2018, were airlifted to Saudi Arabia for the procedure in July from Muhimbili National Hospital, after the Saudi Arabia government agreed to foot the medical bills for the twin’s separation. Missenyi District Sheikh Abdu Zaid Chagulani, who conducted the burial service, appealed to Tanzanians to remain united and should not allow religion to separate them. “Christians and Muslims are brothers and sisters and sons and daughters of God. Tanzanians should not allow religion to separate them,” he said. MNH Consultant and Paediatric Surgeon, Dr. Zaitun Bokhary, said the twins were separated in Saudi Arabia and returned to Tanzania on August 30 and were taken to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in Dar es Salaam for normal checkups. 822043 “While running tests on them, Anicia began to vomit, which suggested fever and loss of nutrients. We decided to take more tests to establish the reason behind the situation. We had speculated that she was exhausted from the trip or infection, but after several tests, she was diagnosed with intestinal obstruction. The doctors did whatever they could to save her life, but she did not make it,” Dr. Bokhary said. Communications Officer from the Tanzanian Embassy in Saudi Arabia, Ms Amina Basumbul, who escorted the twins from Riyadh to Dar es Salaam and later to Bukoba, said the procedure to separate them was carried out at the King Abddullah Specialist Children’s Hospital in Saudi Arabia. “The operation was carried out in nine phases, involving 32 specialists consisting of doctors, surgeons, technicians and nurses. The twins were conjoined below the chest, abdomen and pelvis. They each had one leg and shared the third leg. They also shared the liver, intestinal tract and urinary and genital tract,” she said. Medical Officer at St Therese Health Centre, Sr Francisca Francis said the surviving twin, Maryness and her mother, Jonesia, were in stable condition and will remain for some time at the facility before being allowed to go home. Mr Gaguti has in the meantime directed doctors and specialists at the Bukoba Regional Referral Hospital to make close follow-up of Maryness.