ALMOST 95 per cent of challenges facing the export of minerals has been addressed, thanks to government’s initiatives aimed at curbing mineral smuggling. The Minister for Minerals, Mr Dotto Biteko, announced the good news when opening a mineral dealer’s seminar, before calling upon them to exercise patience. During the seminar, meant to familiarize dealers with new mining regulations as a way of making them aware of their rights and responsibilities, Mr Biteko said the government wants to put everything in order for the mining export business. “The government was working on challenges on the export of minerals and that about 95 per cent of the problems were solved, the government has good intentions to simplify trading,” said Mr Biteko. He was quick to caution that conducive business environment does not mean the government will stop controlling the minerals business, as they want transparency to ensure the government earns its rightful share. He said that the government was working on a proposal to scrap export charges on minerals to simplify exportation of minerals. The Minister’s sentiments came as a response to complaints raised by mineral dealers that the one per cent charges of the value of the mineral exported by Tanzania Shipping Corporation (Tasac) has been a set back to the mineral export business. Chairman of the Tanzania Mineral Dealers Association (TAMIDA), Mr Sammy Mollel said that in recent days, four companies had planned to attend a minerals exhibition in Bangkok, but failed due to delays caused by the issuance of release order after the payment of one per cent of the minerals’ value. “President John Magufuli removed the valueadded tax and withholding tax on small miners and we were very happy with directives issued,” Mr Mollel said. The Minister said the government will keep on controlling the minerals sector which he said has increased the amount of minerals being traded through the official mining markets. He gave an example of gold which he said had increased from 141 kilogramme per month to 570kg per month. He added that the government is aware of unfaithful dealers and chemists who facilitate manufacturing of fake gold saying those netted will be taken to court soon. At the occasion, Mr Biteko told the Mining Commission to extend the scope of the dealer licence from regional to cover a zone. “The Mining Commission should immediately draft the changes and submit so that we quickly solve the challenge,” said Mr Biteko. He said the current regulations restrict a dealer licence to just one region thus low competition ultimately affects small-scale miners in getting the best prices. “We want the dealer licence to be allowed to operate in all regions of Tanzania. It will add competition which will ultimately benefit the smallscale miners and of course increase government revenue from taxes,” he added. Mr Biteko said the government will start with expanding the scope to zones as a response to the demand of the dealers. The government has opened 28 mineral markets countrywide so far, with 11 mineral centres that allow trading.