CONFIDENT Young Africans jetted off yesterday for Ndola, Zambia ahead of their CAF Champions League tie against Zesco United this weekend. The first round, return leg tie will be staged at the multipurpose Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola, which has a capacity of 49,800 pe ople. Zesco’s Thaban Kamusoko came back to haunt his former employer Yanga with a last gasp equaliser, as the first leg held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salam on September 15th this year ended in a 1-1 draw. Yanga were on the verge of placing one leg into the group stage of the continental top tier clubs competition, as they took a priceless lead through a spot kick well converted by Patrick Sibomana but they failed to defend their narrow lead to the final whistle. Yanga will be required to win or register a high scoring draw away for them to sail through into the group stage of the competition. A defeat or barren draw will see them knocked out and drop to CAF Confederation Cup competition. Ahead of the clash, Yanga Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera  is hopefully that his team is going to emulate what they did in Gaborone, Botswana against Township Rollers in the preliminary round of the competition. After a 1-1 draw in Dar es Salaam, Yanga went ahead to register a 1-0 victory away in Gaborone, with the lone winner scored by Juma Balinya to eliminated Rollers from the tournament. Yanga Information Officer, Hassan Bumbuli said the squad to Ndola comprises 21 players and seven officials. Congolese tactician, Zahera led the first batch of players to Ndola, comprising ten players. The second batch which will comprise other 11 players was due to fly out late yesterday to join the rest in Ndola. Former Yanga midfielder Pius Buswita believes that the Jangwani Street lads have a chance of eliminating their opponents if they can manage to keep Zesco’s attacking midfielder Kamusoko at bay. Buswita recognises that Kamusoko is a gifted player who can do a lot on the pitch to help his side win. He still remembers him when they used to play together how he could cool the tempo of the team when under pressure and his good passing and shooting range. The Zimbabwean midfielder has become a frequent scorer for Z esco United as he recently scored a 2-1 home win over winless Lumwana Radiants at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium to see his side remain top of the FAZ Super Division table. Yanga squad which left for Ndola yesterday comprises, goalkeepers: Metacha Mnata and Farouk Shikalo, Defenders : Juma Abdul, Ali Hamad, Muharami Issa, Ally Mtoni ‘Sonso’, Lamine Moro, Kelvin Yondani, Midfielders: Raphael Daudi, Mapinduzi Balama, Feisal Salum, Mohammed Issa, Mrisho Ngassa, Abdulaziz Makame, Papy Kabamba Tshishimbi and Jaffar Mohamed. Strikers: Sadney Urikhob, Patrick Sibomana, Juma Balinya, Deus Kaseke and Maybin Kalengo. Officials are Zahera, Noel Mwandila, Manyika Peter, Jacob Onyango, Edward Bavu, Hafidh Saleh and Mahmoud Omar.