THE African Road Maintenance Funds Association (ARMFA), Eastern Africa Focal Group meeting kicks off today in Zanzibar, with member states set to discuss cost-effective means of preserving, developing and prolonging the life of roads. Zanzibar Roads Funds Director, Mr Mwalimu Ali Mwalimu, host of the regional meeting, told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday preparations are well in place ahead of the two-day event. “The meeting will bring together all key stakeholders in the road sub-sector from across the East African regions with the main focus on cost-effective ways to maintain our roads,” said Mr Mwalimu. Over 60 participants are expected to grace the workshop which will also focus on best practices in road construction as well as how to solicit more funds for road maintenance. “With limited roads construction and maintenance budgets, we must look for ways of reducing the cost of maintenance and adopt best road construction methods and ensure our roads last longer. “For instance, the construction of roads should consider all necessary aspects, including road marks and signs, as well as other necessary infrastructures to avoid unnecessary maintenance costs,” he said. Mr Mwalimu said the meeting will serve as a platform for raising more awareness of the need for a stable and sustainable road infrastructure, maintenance and creative road technologies. “Experts will present topics on a range of cost-effective means of preserving, developing and prolonging the life of roads without expensive reconstruction,” he added. Mr Mwalimu said road maintenance is a significant endeavor which prolongs the lifespan of roads, keeping them safe and passable, thus guaranteeing smooth movement of people and goods which in turn boosts economic activities. The Zanzibar Roads Fund Director stressed on the need for road stakeholders to improve the quality of roads management and maintenance, noting that reliable and safe roads are paramount for the social and economic needs of any nation. “I call upon those responsible with the construction of roads to adhere to quality standards; This will reduce the burden of road maintenance,” he remarked. The Eastern African Focal Group is a regional extension of ARMFA, 32 member countries continental experience sharing platform for best practices in road maintenance funds management in Africa.