THE government is planning to review the Women and Gender policy, the thrust being to empower more women to advance their progress and growth. Speaking at the 14th Gender Festival organised by TGNP Mtandao in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly, and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile said equal chances for women can also reduce gender violence. Dr Ndugulile said last year alone, over 41,000 gender-based violence acts were reported and the society should introduce right policies to fight such vices. “Women and girls should not encounter gender based violence. They deserve greater access to resources, opportunities, and decisionmaking power, in order to sustainably reduce extreme poverty, build healthy communities and promote inclusive growth,” he said. He added that the establishment of gender desks, One Stop Centres which handles Gender Based Violence (GBV) and Violence Against Children (VAC), has attracted praises as effective strategies for curbing aggression in the society. We need to put more efforts which focus on strengthening women and youth-friendly policies at the national level, he said, to increase women’s equality and youth inclusion, and also ensure that Tanzanian women and youth are healthier and more productive. According to Dr Ndugulile, Tanzania has made notable progress on gender equality and women’s empowerment. The Vision 2025 for Tanzania Mainland stipulates equality between men and women as laid down in the Constitution and recognizes gender equality and the empowerment of women in all socioeconomic and political relations. According to Dr Ndugulile, Tanzania’s Five Year Development Plan emphasizes women’s economic empowerment as a means of bringing about equality in economic empowerment. “Our ministry is charged with coordinating and providing guidance for mainstreaming gender in all development processes. This is supported by the Women and Gender Development Policy and Strategy and an Implementation Plan on Gender,” said Dr Ndugulile.