THE 2019 Oryx Rally of Tanzania will be officially stamped in Dar es Salaam tomorrow in an occasion that will also unveil all crews to be engaged in continental level racing showdown. The Oryx Rally Director Satinder Birdi said yesterday that the official launch will be held at Southern Sun Hotel, one of the associate sponsors of the two-days rally and added that preparation has been going on steadily ahead of the wheeling showdown on September 13th, 14th and 15th. Oryx Rally is the Tanzanian round of African Rally Championship (ARC), that usually draws top drivers and navigators from all over the continent. Oryx Energies of Tanzania is the title sponsor while Southern Sun Hotel, Highland Estate Ubena and Knight Support and Precision have joined as co-sponsors. With safety taking the leading role, Birdi said the rally will stage most of its actions at Highland Estate Ubena and Lugoba, about 120 kilometres west of the commercial capital, Dar es Salaam. “The dusty roads around the areas are safe for both drivers and spectators due to low traffic,” added Birdi. Safety of crews and spectators was the most serious agenda in motorsports as both the event’s director, Birdi and the President of the motorsports governing body (AAT), Nizar Jivani have issued warning to the drivers and spectators against violating safety measures in all sections of the two-day rally. “We have been staging safe rallies for over 16 years since becoming affiliated members of the world motorsports governing body (FIA)”. The foreign crews come from Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Rwanda and Scotland. All Tanzanian top drivers are competing for this year’s rally including Randeep Birdi who is among the top contenders for the title. Other top drivers include Dharam Pandya, Rajpar Dhani, Tufail Tufail, Gurpal Sandhu and Ajminder Singh. The list released by the Oryx Rally director has Pandya Rally team of Dharam Pandya and his navigator Veer Darba in Subaru Impreza The second in the list is Randeep Singh who will be co-driven by Zubayr Peredina in Mitsubishi Evo 9. Next off ramp will be Siera Zulu team of Nadeem Daudi who will be guided by Misam Fazal in Mitsubishi Evo X. Harri Singh team of Rajpar Dhani and Moses Matovu is placed the top from Kilimanjaro region. The duo will be parading the power of Subaru Impreza in the two-day showdown. Fifth listed is Gurpal Sandhu from Arusha who will be navigated by a Zambian Dave Sihoka in Mitsubishi Evo X ahead of Sierra Zulu team of Ismail Mehboob and Nazeem Suleiman. The seventh team in the list is another Siera Zulu team of Altaf Munge and Ally Hamoud who will be followed by their team mate Naeem Daud. Tufail Racing team of Tufail Tufail will be next off ramp ahead of the Harri Singh team of Ajminder Dhani and Manmeet Birdi. The list of Harri Singh crew completes with Mandeep Singh and his navigator Absalom Aswan. Pandya Rally team of Hussein Suleiman ‘Magunia’ and David Matete goes off ramp eleventh in Subaru Impreza ahead of Mkwawa Rally team manned by Hamid Mbata. Mussa Said (Vualaa team), goes next ahead of Shehzad Munge and Aaron John. The last off ramp is Taylor Rally team of Kelvin Taylor and Karim Pindu