THE Royal Danish Embassy in partnership with the Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) has disbursed 320m/- to 24 young entrepreneurs in the country to support their business and innovation ideas. COSTECH through the Dar Teknohama Business Incubators (DTBi) developed a programme for empowering youth in digital and creative systems with the aim of training them to develop business ideas. Speaking during the handing over of cheques to eight winners of the second phase of the programme, COSTECH Director General, Dr Amos Nungu called upon the youth to desist from giving up. He emphasized that the winners who received the funds should embark on their businesses in a dedicated way so that they can recruit others. This is so because when youth see opportunities, they should not hesitate to participate in order to share experiences. “Our goals are meant to have youth employing themselves and providing employment opportunities to their colleagues as part of achieving a middle-class economy through industrialisation. In addition, the Director of Finance and Administration from the DTBi, Makange Mramba, said the first phase of the training programme had 16 winners, while the second phase had eight youth who have been awarded 120m/-. The Business Development Manager (DTBi), Gasper Mdee explained that despite young people being provided with the capital, the participants are trained enough for them to write creative business texts influencing capital from various institutions locally and abroad. In addition, the Sector Development Leader from the Embassy of Denmark, Jema Ngwale, called upon various institutions to provide opportunities for young people, by prioritizing young women so that they make it economically. One of the winners, Othuman Waziri said, “My idea is to create a Boxpesa which is a special programme that will help Tanzanians to keep their money through networks over a period of time.” While Irene Sinare said her idea was to create alternative special bags that can decompose in soil within 180 days.