POLICE in Nkasi District in Rukwa Region have arrested a resident of Paramawe village, Luvinza Kasakwa (55), at Mtenga Ward for allegedly preventing his daughter from sitting for the Standard Seven National Examination so that he could marry her off. The 16 years old pupil was in Standard Seven at Paramawe Primary School at Mtenga ward in the district. Impeccable reports from inside the Nkasi District Police Post at the small town of Namanyere recounted that the suspect father was first arrested at Paramawe Police Post before being taken to Namanyere. “It is true, the suspect (Kasakwa), has been arrested, unfortunately I can only provide scanty information because I’m not the police spokesperson” added one of the police officers from Nkasi District Police Post. The Nkasi District Council Executive Director (DED), Mr Missana Kwangura told the “Daily News” in a phone interview that on 12th September this year, the girl was absent in the examination room at Paramawe Primary School. The Standard Seven National Examinations were held in September 12 and 13, this year countrywide. “The first examination to be held was English subject, where the girl was absent, which made the invigorator to alert relevant authorities, and subsequently the father was found through his mobile phone…. He said his daughter will not be able to sit for her exams because she was sick,” added the DED. Mr Misaana further said “Mtenga Ward Executive Officer and Paramawe Village Officer finally forced the father to escort his daughter to school, where she was found to be healthy and was immediately sent to the examination room. However she only managed to sit for only four papers out of five because she missed the English paper,” added the DED. He further explained that the suspect was later arrested and held at Paramawe Police Post for interrogation. “We suspect that the man allegedly prevented his daughter from sitting for her national examinations so that she can be married off,” he added On his part, the Mtenga Ward Councilor, Mr Pancras Malyatabu told this paper over the phone that the girl admitted that her father did not want her to sit for the national examinations because he wanted to marry her off.