SILENCE has been the best treatment of stress and a quite fantastic form of comfort to most people over the globe, in some instances physicians propose silence as a treatment to severely mentally challenged individuals. However this form of haven is at the verge of disappearance due to the extreme presence of unwanted myriad of high levels of sounds. Not only are human beings affected severely by high levels of sound but also other living organisms within natural environment. To be clear, unwanted sounds become pollutant when they are disseminated in a potentially harmful and annoying manner, to the extent that it disturbs the comfort of people and animals within their surroundings. Scholars from George Mason University did a study on noise pollution, and they found out that traffic noise, affects greatly birds singing, where birds currently sing short songs and at a very lower frequency. This affects their mating habits, thus the major culprits being honking and vehicles motor engines roaring around these birds niche, these are insidious threats to wildlife because degrades wildlife without evidence. Noise pollution takes more than 3 per cent of lives in the European Union due to heart attacks attributed by heavy noises generated. Hence there are many more go unnoticed within the Sub-Saharan Africa. Noise pollution has been a major problem all over the world since ancient Rome to the 21st century. Nations like Egypt, Nigeria, Turkey, Spain, Mexico, France, Argentina China, UK and USA to mention a few are greatly affected by high levels of sound. Until 1970’s noise pollution was viewed by governments in most parts of the world as just a simple nuisance. However due to the detrimental effects noise generated by man impact the environment extreme measures had to be taken. Sound becomes unwanted and unhealthy when it interferes normal activities such as sleeping, conversations, meditation and diminishes the quality of life it self. Noise have major effects not only to human being but to animals also, heavy machines, construction activities and residential areas cause coronary and artery diseases to human beings exposed to such levels of noise. However on animals there is an increased risk of death by altering the predator/prey detection and avoidance, sadly it interferes with reproduction and animals navigation. There are myriad of factors that lead to noise pollution, zeroing in to Tanzania it goes without saying that, poor urban planning, technology and noise reduction sensitization are accounted to be the leading factors of this environmental nuisance. Across the nation outdoor noise that are known to be chronic and nuisances are, machines, social activities (churches sermons, weddings and ceremonies), motor vehicle engines and airplanes engines. Evidently noise generated within our living conditions affect our emotional and psychological well being, noise generated by car exhausts interfere with our speech and sleep, leading to annoyance, anxiety and stress. Hence these noises generated maybe a result of multiple sources and processes. Basically noise is measured by decibels (db) which is a unit of sound intensity measuring how loud a sound is, using pattern approved by sound level meter. In Tanzania to a large extent noise pollution is an undermined threat with short- long term effects, where by loud music played during the day with no restrictions affects children and old people hearing capacity, school and decreases work performance. In most urban places national wide from , pubs, groceries, workshops, garages, car washes , small industries areas to social halls tend to have no any strict rules on noise minimization. Vendors across the streets from main roads turn up to the maximum their loud speakers to call in customers, adding up moving vehicle and people’s voices, these areas are submerged under heavy levels of sound. In region like Mwanza, Arusha and Dar es Salaam, where population is growing and business activities are booming, noise pollutions lurks behind. It is common for people living within impoverished homes to be close by an industry, or a factory. In most cases like these people are found to be attributes of such danger towards their bodies as industrial noise pose a big threat towards human hearing ability. Industrial noise has been waved since 1930’s, within Sub-Saharan countries redesigning of the industrial production mechanism has not yet fully taken charge. Reducing equipment noise, mounting shock absorbing tools on machines and erecting physical barriers in workplace, would really help reduce workplace noise and enhance quite production, sadly that is still unachieved. Just to be on the same page, the World Health Organisation(WHO) suggested that community noise should be less than 30db in bedrooms for a good sleep quality and35db in classrooms for effective comprehension. By making an analysis on the sound levels and its effects, environmental studies found that 40db causes annoyance which is considered to be a normal house hold sound level to, 45 db causes sleeping disturbance. Experts advise that any sound that is above 85 is critical and could be extremely harmful to anyone as human beings can only hear 0-140 decibels. Where by 0 db is soft sound,10db normal breathing, 60db normal conversation, 110 db when someone shouts in your ear and 120 being a music band sound. We can only tolerate 60db coming through our ears and when it shoots to 70 it is very much irritating if we match these decibels numbers against the usual recorded levels of 70db freeway traffic and 85 db heavy traffic and noisy restaurant, thus this shows how much our natural environment is affected by this unnoticed peril. Noise pollution affects much our young ones as they are regularly exposed to higher levels of noise that immensely affect the way they develop: reading and speech difficulties due to auditory processing being compromised. Taking Nigeria as an example, the city went ahead to tackle the noise pollution peril to its built environment and decided to shutdown, churches, mosques and night clubs, which were generating high levels of sound which are potentially harmful, as 97 db were usually recorded during busy days, 55 on average days and 45 in nigh times. However, environmental rules, laws and regulations have tried to some extent to neutralize this annoying peril, but a 50,000/- fine to 50 m/- sometimes don’t fathom the magnitude of the consequences disseminated by anyone found guilty. Anyone responsible for noise pollution should be heavily dealt with because, noise pollution tampers with natures ecosystem and in many forms it has been noted that the environment has a role in shaping the physique behaviour and function of animals including man and not merely from birth. To combat this danger, mitigation mechanisms should be employed immediately to save our hardworking youth who work long hours a day under heavy sounds, as studies have noted high levels of sound greatly influence changes in health behaviours, leading to hypertension, high stress level and tinnitus. Human tolerance levels vary greatly according to decibel someone is exposed to, thus people’s cultures tend to a factor as some tribes take high levels of sound to be an expression of their values. These habits can be sustainably suppressed by frequent capacity building, training on safe work conditions and environmentally friendly social life activities such as ceremonies and parties. In busy cities and towns such as Dar es Salaam, Mwanza and Arusha, roadway noise can be reduced by erecting noise barriers, limiting number of vehicles and speed, alteration of roadway surface texture to smooth vehicle flow and reduce braking as well as acceleration, use of well built and sophisticated traffic control and coming up with environmentally friendly and noise sensitive tire designs. I think it would be wise if Tanzania would induce the Buy Quiet strategy, utilized by the America in 70’s and 80’s, as Tanzanians it is possible for different uses to opt for the lowest noise emitting tools as possible to safeguard peoples mental and physical wellbeing. Occupation and Safety Hazards mechanisms ought to be strict to ensure that earmuffs, ear plugs and other auditory protective gear are worn at all times on work sites. Health expert has shown that people who are exposed to less noise, are under a huge favour of developing new rain cells, activating their memory and being encouraged of self reflection. It is vital to encourage noise reduction and embark on silence adaptation journey, as Florence Nightingale said “Unnecessary noise is the most cruel absence of care that can be inflicted on the sick or well.’’ *Padili Mikomangwa is an environmentalist based in Dar es Salaam