DEPUTY Minister for Water Mr Jumaa Aweso says reduced and delayed rains plus rising demand for water are putting much pressure on dwindling water supply. He has called for immediate and sustainable interventions that will enhance efficient water use and governance to manage and prevent the country from encountering water stress. Mr Aweso expressed the sentiments over the weekend when officiating at a water management seminar embracing Tanzanian and Poland, pointing out that while the annual renewable resources stand at 126 billion cubic metres, the current annual demand is 40 billion cubic metres. Moreover, he said, it is projected that by the year 2035, the demand will rise to 57 cubic metres per year. “Although this national average is promising, it has significantly dropped from an average of 7,800 cubic meter per person per year in the 1960s to the current 2,300 cubic metres per person per year, hence the need for interventions,” he said. Opening the meeting on behalf of Water Minister Prof Makame Mbarawa, he said it was high time opportunities were explored for support and cooperation with their Polish counterparts in the areas of waste water treatment, including energy production, clean water supply and water supply management system. Mr Aweso said given the size of the country and dispersion and availability of water resources, water supply coverage in rural and urban areas was still one of the major challenges facing the water sector. Giving statistics, the deputy minister said the water supply coverage on average for urban areas currently stands at 75 per cent, with Dar es Salaam City leading with 84 per cent and the rural areas being 71 per cent. The coverage, he pointed out, was not satisfactory, particularly in rural areas, which calls for more assistance to the sector from stakeholders and development partners. “We have made significant strides in water resources management, but since many gaps and challenges still exist, it is crucial that we aggressively move away from the sector-oriented approach to water resources development that fully recognizes the multi-sectoral linkages in planning water resources use,” said Mr Aweso. The deputy minister said it was high time the country moved more towards the development of water resources and less on water protection or technical management based on regulations as the primary instrument for implementing the water policy. He was optimistic that the seminar would address the country’s pertinent themes within the local context of water development strategies and water management, as well as current and future challenges. Other areas are financing water related investment, governance of integrated water resources, water supply and sanitation services and opportunities for technological development in the water sector. “It is envisaged that the Polish experience will boost our efforts to improve the economy through interventions in the construction and exploitation of the storage, collection, transmission and distribution of drinking water,” he said. Earlier, the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, called for cooperation with Poland to focus on developing simple and adaptable technologies in water supply and sanitation. “We want to reach a common understanding after the seminar to be followed by field visits on some of the main water related issues on renewable energy and cleaner energy production from waste water,” Prof Mkumbo said, adding: “Capacity development needs information and is also necessary for ICT system enhancement, thus the participants can join us to identify water-related challenges and discuss how Poland could support us to address implementation of effective and efficient water sector.”