FORMER Bukoba Urban Legislator, Ambassador Khamis Kagasheki, has appealed to the Tanzania Muslim Council (BAKWATA) to set up some projects in their midst to sustain them instead of waiting for donations and handouts to run their activities. Mr Kagasheki gave the piece of advice while presiding over a five-year development plan launch here recently, where BAKWATA would implement and supervise in Bukoba Municipal Council He equally challenged them to be transparent in their financial matters of the project for it to achieve the intended goals. “Initiating profit generating projects would enable BAKWATA as an institution to be sustainable, and generate income to speed up development. We have to borrow a leaf from other institutions, like the Evangelical Lutheran Church (ELCT), which is ahead in executing various projects, and we must also avoid business as usual attitude,” he pointed out. In a related development, the former legislator appealed to Tanzanians to remain united as they safeguard the existing peace and never allow religion to separate them. “Christians and Muslims are brothers and sisters and sons and daughters of God. Tanzanians should not allow religion to separate them,” he said. On his part, Kagera Regional Sheikh Haruna Kichwabuta, said that under the five-year development programme (2019- 2023), BAKWATA was keen to improve various social services including health, education and economic empowerment it envisions to run. “Each Council in Bukoba, Muleba, Missenyi, Biharamulo, Ngara, Karagwe and Kyerwa will construct a Health Centre, which will employ around 416 staff on permanent basis, and another 1,000 will be casual workers. At least 400,000 Tanzanians will be served by the facility,” he said. Expounding, he said that under the scheme every leader will contribute a monthly contribution of 5,000/-, and ordinary member 3,000/- for the upkeep of their coffers. During the launch, a mini fundraising was organised where 10.2m/- was raised with Ijuganyondo Ward Councillor, al-Masoud Kalumuna contributing also 50 bags of cement and 200,000/-. They also raised 150 bottles of blood that was donated to Bukoba Regional Referral Hospital.