THE government has insisted that December 31, this year, all mobile phone users, who will not have registered their SIM cards biometrically, will not be in a position to make or receive any calls. Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Atashasta Nditiye maintained the position during his tour of Kigoma Region to raise public awareness about ongoing SIM card registration. Among the areas Mr Nditiye will visit include Ruhita Ward, Kibuye, Mrufiti, Itaba, Murungu, Rugongwe, Kasulu and Kibondo. According to him, the fingerprint registration exercise is meant to identify all mobile phone users as well as address challenges, which prevent communication from making an impact on the country’s economy. He pointed out that the communications sector was third position in the fiscal year 2016/17 and fourth in 2017/18 with a contribution of 13.1 per cent to the GDP. With such contribution to the country's GDP, the communications sector makes the top five. Thus, the government is committed to curbing cybercrimes, including fraud, incitement, among others, by making sure all people register their SIM cards biometrically. The deputy minister called upon all residents in the region to turn out in big numbers, when officials from the Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) along with mobile network companies, the National Identification Authority (NIDA), the police and Immigration arrive there in October for SIM card registration. He, however, noted that the government would ensure only citizens, who possess NIDA identification cards or numbers were theones being registered. “This will prevent non-citizens from registering taking into account that Kigoma borders neighbouring countries. Therefore, chances are that there is an interaction of people with such countries." Mr Japhet Amos from Kigina Village in Rugongwe Ward on behalf of other villagers requested the deputy minister to help them register and finish it before the deadline so that their lines won't be blocked. TCRA Head in the Central Zone Antonio Manyanda assured the residents that SIM card registration was free and urged them to inform TCRA any suspicious acts, which would be noted.