MOST men probably don’t lik e think ing about their prostates, but it’s w orth doing once in a w hile. Problems w ith the small gland are common in men past the age of 50. The good new s is that most prostate conditions can be successfully treated. The prostate is about the size of a w alnut. It w raps around the urethra, the tube that carries urine out of the bladder. During sexu al climax, or ejaculation, the prostate adds fluid to sperm to create semen, which also leave s the body through the urethra. For men under 50 years of age, the most common prostate problem is prostatitis and it can cause a burning feeling w hen you urinate or an urge to urinate more often. You might have a feve r or just feel tired. Prostatitis is caused by the prostate becoming inflamed or irritated. Some k inds of prostatitis are caused by bacteria. Cancer is a disease in w hich cells in the body grow out of control. When cancer starts in the prostate, it is called prostate cancer except for skin cancer; prostate cancer is the most common cancer. The symptoms of prostate cancer, in which cancer cells form in the tissues of the prostate, can be similar to those of Benign Prostate Hypertrophy. How eve r, most of the time, patients are diagnosed w ith prostate cancer after results from a blood test prompt a prostate biopsy. Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in men and it usually grow s slow ly and is initially confined to the prostate gland, where it may not cause serious harm. How eve r, w hile some types of prostate cancer grow slow ly and may need minimal or eve n no treatment, other types are aggressive and can spread q uick ly. Prostate cancer that’s detected early w hen it’s still confined to the prostate gland has a better chance of successful treatment. There are usually no vi sible signs and symptoms during the early stages of prostate cancer. However, if symptoms do appear, they usually invol ve one or more of the follow ing; Difficulty starting urination, weak or interrupted flow of urine, freq uent urination, especially at night, difficulty emptying the bladder completely, pain or burning during urination, blood in the urine or semen, Pain in the back , hips, or pelvi s that doesn’t go aw ay and painful ejaculation. There are seve ral factors that can increase your risk of prostate cancer and the few mentioned include; advan ced age since the risk of prostate cancer increases as you age; Race is also a risk factor since for reasons not yet determined, black men carry a greater risk of prostate cancer than do men of other races. In black men, prostate cancer is also more lik ely to be aggressive or advan ced. Other researched risk factors include; family history and being obese. There’s no prove n prostate cancer preve ntion strategy but you may reduce your risk of prostate cancer by making healthy choices, such as exe rcising and eating a healthy diet. Note that if you’re concerned about your risk of prostate cancer, you may be interested in prostate cancer prevention. In general, it is recommended that men w ith an ave rage risk of prostate cancer should make choices that benefit their ove rall health if they’re interested in prostate cancer prevention. Choosing a healthy diet that’s low in fat and full of fruits and ve getables may contribute to a low er risk of prostate cancer. If you w ant to reduce your risk of prostate cancer, consider trying to choose a low -fat diet. Foods that contain fats include meats, nuts, oils and dairy products, such as milk and cheese. To reduce the amount of fat you eat each day, limit fatty foods or choose low -fat var ieties. For instance, reduce the amount of fat you add to foods w hen cooking, select leaner cuts of meat and choose low -fat or reduced-fat dairy products. Increase the amount of fruits and ve getables you eat each day. Fruits and ve getables are full of vi tamins and nutrients that are thought to reduce the risk of prostate cancer. Eating more fruits and ve getables also tends to make you have less room for other foods, such as high-fat foods. Reduce the amount of dairy products you eat each day since studies show that, men w ho ate the most dairy products such as milk , cheese and yogurt each day had the highest risk of prostate cancer. It’s important to maintain a healthy w eight, since men w ho are obese w ith a body mass index ( BMI) of 30 or higher may have an increased risk of prostate cancer. If you are at a healthy w eight, w ork to maintain it by exe rcising most days of the w eek and choosing a healthy diet that’s rich in fruits, ve getables and w hole grains. Exercise has many other health benefits and may reduce your risk of heart disease and other cancers. Exercise can help you maintain your w eight, or it can help you lose w eight. As part of reducing your risk of prostate cancer, it is important to talk to your health care provi der about your risk since some men have an increased risk of prostate cancer. For those w ith a ve ry high risk of prostate cancer, there may be other options for risk reduction, such as medications. Put in mind that regular screening is the best w ay to detect prostate cancer in good time for good outcome. Note that w hether you can preve nt prostate cancer through diet is entirely on you. But eating a healthy diet with a var iety of fruits and ve getables can also improve your ove rall health. Don’t let prostate issues tak e ove r your life. Talk w ith your health care provi der if you have problems urinating or feel discomfort in your pelvi c area. Getting the right treatment can help improve your q uality of life.