YOUNG Africans and Azam FC have been eliminated in CAF Champions League and CAF confederation Cup respectively after suffering defeats away yesterday. Yanga lost 2-1 at the hands of Zambia’s Zesco United in CAF Champions League at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola, Zambia. It means, Yanga have been knocked out of the continental top tier club championships on 3-2 aggregate as the first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam had ended in a 1-1 draw a fortnight ago. However, Yanga will remain in the continental championships as they have been relegated to CAF Confederation Cup play offs, while Zesco United have advanced to the Champions League group stage. Azam lost 1-0 to Triangle United of Zimbabwe at Barbourfields Stadium, Bulawayo in CAF Confederation Cup tournament yesterday and they have been knocked out on 2-0 aggregate. In the first leg at the Azam Complex a forthnight ago ‘the ice cream makers’ suffered a 0-1 defeat. At the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola Mwinyi Zahera side needed to win or register a high scoring draw away for them to sail through into the group stage, which they failed to attain. It was a good start for Yanga as they managed to keep the host at bay and made some deadly forays upfront. Yanga had shown great determination in the early opening exchanges and despite going down to a Jesse Were goal in the first half, they recollected themselves and pulled level after half an hour mark though Namibian striker, Sadney Urikhob. Were netted an easy goal in the 24th minute, as Yanga defenders and goalkeeper Metacha Mnata failed to clear their lines. The Kenyan striker headed low a flick header by Weston Kalengo from an attacking throw in. Yanga looked unshaken by the goal and continued to press for an equliser and their efforts paid off after half an hour mark, when they pulled level. A power packed shot by Urikhob precisely beat goalkeeper Jacob Banda. It followed a well taken corner kick by Patrick Sibomana and Zesco failed to clear their line only for the Namibian to power home. Yanga kept pushing in search for a winner but failed to take advantage of the few chances they created, notable was in the 35th minute, when Pappy Tshishimbi failed to make contact with the ball with an overhead attempt. In the second half, Zesco came back rejuvenated and pushed Yanga at their own zone and were stretched to the limit. They could resist no more in the 78th minute as Zesco managed to restore their lead. An own goal by Abdulaziz Makame sealed Zesco’s place in the prestigious stage of the continental tournament. Late in the game Zesco Coach George Lwandamina introduced Kondwani Mtonga and Umaru Kasumba for John Ching’andu and Were respectively before Yanga Zahera replacing Ali Ali, Feisal Salum and Sibomana for Maybin Kalengo, Juma Balinya and Mrisho Ngasa in effort to search for an equaliser which could see them into the group stage but things did not go on their way. In Bulawayo, Trevor Mavhunga’s goal with four minutes from time was all Triangle United needed to progress to the play-off round of the CAF Confederation Cup with a 1-0 victory over Azam. First timers Triangle showed resilience even in the face of a tough and experienced Azam who had travelled to Zimbabwe determined to overturn the loss they suffered at home. But Mavhunga’s late strike was all they needed to ride on to the last 16. Triangle now hope to maintain the same momentum as they progress to the playoff round where they will be paired against sides which have dropped from the CAF Champions League.