MENTAL health specialists have cited poor mental health in the workplace as one of the factors that leads to absenteeism and low productivity. They said there was a need for employers to create a mentally healthy environment in the workplace to boost employees’ morale and productivity. A clinical psychologist, who also doubles as chairman of Mental Health Association of Tanzania, Dr Isaack Lema, said mental health was crucial to human life, noting that "there is no health without mental health. " Dr Lema said poor mental health was one of the biggest problems in the workplace today and increased staff turnover and sickness absence due to debilitating depression, burnout and exhaustion, decreased motivation and low productivity. "In the workplace environment there are people, who are present at work, but they are not productive...this situation is known as presenteeism and those who often are away from work - absenteeism," Dr Lema noted. Presenting a topic on mental health in the workplace ahead of World Mental Health Day marked on October 10 every year, Dr Lema said there was a need to enable everyone to flourish and those in distress to access help as quickly as possible and those recovered from mental health problems to stay well and enjoy successful careers. According to experts, mental health includes emotional, psychological and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel and act. It also helps to determine how we handle stress, relate to others and make decisions. He said treatment of depression resulted in a 40-60 per cent reduction in absenteeism and or presenteeism. Dr Lema explained that it was important to promote good mental health in the workplace because it was where employees spent much of their time. "The workplace that challenges us, supports and develops our sense of purpose and supports us when things are hard and it can play a big role in protecting and building our mental health," Dr Lema insisted. Dr Lema said according to the World Federation for Mental Health Report of 2017 one in four adults experienced mental health difficulties, while one in five people in the workplace experienced a mental health condition. He said the annual global cost of mental health problems was estimated at $2.5tri and was expected to rise to $6tri by 2030. Dr Lema said according to the report 10 per cent of the employed population had taken time off work for depression, while an average of 36 workdays were lost per depression episode. He said cognitive symptoms of depression such as difficulties in concentration, making decisions and remembering were present up to 94 per cent of the time during an episode of depression thus causing significant impairment in work function and productivity. WHO predicts that depression will be the world’s most common illness by 2030 and suggests the global burden of the condition will be greater than for illness such as diabetes, heart disease and cancer.