Sahara Tanzania Limited has set up a campaign aimed at supporting Serengeti boys to perform well at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) U-17 finals in Dar es Salaam. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Sahara Tanzania Limited Business Development Officer, Mwajabu Mrutu said that the campaign Dubbed ‘KeepYourEyeOnTheBall’, aim to motivate players to win matches at the ongoing tournament. Apart from fuelling the ambitions of the enterprising future stars by making fuel available to ferry the players and fans to and from the stadium, “Sahara Tanzania is providing a capacity building,” she said. She urged the media and influencers across the country to embrace and support the campaign, which in the end will generate more interest and acceptance nation-wide. “The #KeepYourEyeOnTheBall message is not just for footballers. We believe it is a timely call to action to all young people in Tanzania. Sahara Group is happy to join forces with other stakeholders to ensure that the message gains more momentum and becomes a mantra that guides the lives of all the youths in Tanzania,” she added. Through the campaign, Sahara also provides entrepreneurial and financial counsel to prepare the young players for post-football life. Mrutu said that the campaign is Sahara’s way of urging the players not to neglect the pursuit of educational and entrepreneurial goals to ensure they are able to keep their dreams alive after their active playing days are over. “We are passionate about the youth in Tanzania and this continues to guide the various projects we have implemented to enhance sustainable development in Tanzania." She said that the future of young stars lies in the hands of stakeholders and thus need to encourage boys to also channel their energies towards pursuing off-the-field goals that would help them take on other challenges after recording huge feats as footballers. According to Mrutu, Sahara Tanzania Limited would continue to work with relevant authorities to push the project beyond football. Sahara Group’s interventions in Tanzania are driven by Sahara Foundation. Working through the Foundation, Sahara Tanzania Limited has implemented several projects including the Upgrade of Library at Pugu Secondary School that serves over 1000 students; the School Sanitation Wash & Hygiene (SWASH) Project, which involved the provision of toilets & washrooms at Salma Kikwete Secondary School and youth empowerment projects, notably, the #M yFuture- StartsWithMe conference, which rallied young people to look inwards for inspiration and pursue their ambitions with unyielding desire.