TANZANIA has become the latest country within the East African Community (EAC) to phase out the use of plastic bags. The East African nation joins its neighbours in their resolve to ban the use of plastic bags whose impact on the environment is enormous. The country’s decision wasn’t arrived to in a rush. It followed long, well thought after producers of imposing the ban. While addressing the parliament in Dodoma last week, Minister for State in Vice President’s Office (Union and Environment) Mr January Makamba revealed that the government was planning to ban plastic bags use, come June 1 this year. The Minister disclosed that he was directed by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa to discuss the matter with responsible authorities such as the National Environment Management Council (NEMC), Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Immigration, Customs and the Police Force. “I have regulations for enforcing the ban on plastic bags. We are just waiting for them to be gazetted,” the minister was quoted as saying. According to the Minister, the move was aimed at protecting the environment from choking mounds of the deadly plastic wastes. Mr Makamba was, however, yesterday scheduled to meet the authorities and different stakeholders with a view of effecting the ban on plastic bags in favour of paper bags. Tanzania becomes the fourth country to ban the use of plastic bags after Uganda banned the use, sale and manufacturing of plastic bags in 2018. Kenya banned plastic bags in 2017 while Rwanda has had the order in force since 2008. In the recent past, the East African Legislative Assembly(EALA) passed the EAC Polythene Materials Control Bill, 2011. It aims at providing a legal framework for the preservation of a clean and healthy environment through the prohibition of manufacturing, sale, importation and use of polythene materials. A United Nations (UN) report released mid last year proposed to governments to consider banning or imposing heavy taxes on manufacturers of single-use plastic bags. The report recommended on grounds that “less than 10th of all the plastic ever made has been recycled.” The comprehensive study says that up to 5 trillion plastic bags are used worldwide each year, according to Reuters. “The scourge of plastic has reached every corner of the Earth,” Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment, says in the report. “Only 9 per cent of the 9 billion tonnes of plastic the world has ever produced has been recycled,” the report said.