SIMBA SC striker John Bocco scooped player of the month for March, following a string of impressive performance in the Mainland Premier League matches. The Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) through the Awards Committee has also picked Simba’s Head Coach, Patrick Aussems, the coach of the month for March. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the duo won the awards basing on their impressive run at their club during the month. During the month, Simba won all three of their games in the league and maintained the title retention campaign, in which Bocco scored four goals. The lanky striker had a brace against Stand United in which Simba won 2-0 at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, before he notched another brace in a 3-0 win against Mbao FC at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. To win the award, Bocco outshined Azam FC striker, Donald Ngoma and Mtibwa Sugar’s Jaffari Kibaya, who were the finalists among the players shortlisted by the Awards Committee. His closest challenger for the award, Ngoma scored four goals for Azam during the month in which, his team played three games, winning them all to collect maximum nine points and remained second on the table with 59 points from 28 matches. Mtibwa Sugar’s Kibaya also helped the Turiani based side to win three of their four league games, losing one to go sixth of the log from 12th position after collecting 41 points from 29 matches. Simba’s Belgian tactician Aussems guided his side to victories in the three games without conceding any goal as the Msimbazi Reds remained third with 57 points from 22 games. Simba are ten points behind leaders Young Africans and five points behind second placed Azam FC but seven matches in hand. Aussems won the award ahead of Azam FC Coach Abdul Mingange and Mtibwa Sugar’s, Zuberi Katwila respectively. Both Bocco and Aussems will be presented with 1m/- and a trophy by Biko Sports plus Azam TV decoder from the league TV rights owners Azam TV. Simba’s ace striker, Meddie Kagere won the award for February alongside Tanzania Prisons coach, Mohammed Rishard.