THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) said the just concluded U-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) competition has left behind a remarkable reputation for the country worldwide. Tanzania, for the first time successfully hosted the tournament which climaxed on Sunday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam following weeks of massive football display from the continent’s promising football players. There were two countries of East Africa in the just ended finals. The other one was Uganda Cubs who were pooled in group A alongside Nigeria, Angola and Tanzania. Cameroon emerged overall winners of the hot contest, beating Guinea 5-3 courtesy of post-match penalties in sparkling finals played at the 60,000 capacity venue. It is the second time for the West African side to win the title after doing the same in 2003. The Indomitable Lions sailed into the finals unscratched in all their three battles, the worst results for them being a scoreless draw against Senegal in the group stage last encounter. Cameroon finished top in their group B seconded by their finalist colleagues Guinea who claimed six points after three fixtures. On the other hand, Angola scooped third slot of the tournament after beating then favourites Nigeria who initially topped group A with 7 points while Angola were second with 6 points apiece. However, speaking after the grand finale, TFF President Wallace Karia said Tanzanians ought to praise themselves for staging the high profile youth football competition with bright colours. “We have to a great extent excelled in organising this event and both CAF and FIFA have been highly impressed with the level of preparations we did throughout the contest,” Karia said. He then apologised to the public for failure of the country’s representatives in the competition Serengeti Boys who exited early and tailed group A pointless. Serengeti Boys was the only team which conceded more goals (12) from group A while the other team which allowed more goals in the tournament was Morocco (4) which finished last in group B. “The bad results for our boys were unexpected but that has given us an experience such that next time, we will enter into the tournament fully prepared,” the TFF boss said. He added that Tanzania has widely been known through the concluded Africa Youth Championship (AYC) such that CAF officials had meetings with representatives from the nation’s tourism sector on how they can use the platform of CAF to promote tourism in the country. Additionally, Karia hailed the government for its tremendous support it rendered to ensure that all necessary resources regarding the competition were easily available. “With this massive support, we have opened gates for other big competitions to be staged here such that whenever we request to host anything, we will be having confidence in ourselves,” he said. His words were echoed by TFF Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo who said the successful hosting of the tournament is a respect for the country. “From the way we did it, nobody can believe that it was our first time,” Ndimbo said.