THE Ministry of Energy has thrown the ball to the Parliament and other relevant authorities on the possibility of removing oil from a list of Union matters. Deputy Minister Subira Mgalu told the National Assembly on Wednesday that the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania provided for a procedure on the matter, but in good faith the Parliament passed the Petroleum Act, 2015, while the House of Representatives passed a similar law in 2016. She said on October 23, 2018, the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government signed a contract with a foreign company for sharing profit from oil or gas extraction. “At the moment activities are ongoing and there is no conflict. But let me leave this matter to other authorities and this Parliament and see whether it is possible,” the deputy minister said, when responding to a question by Mr Muhamed Muhammed (Bumbwini-CUF). In his question, the lawmaker had pointed out that the issue of oil was a Union matter and there were various ways done to search for oil in the country. He, therefore, wanted to know which procedure was to be followed to confirm oil deposits in the area. The deputy minister explained that it was true that according to the Constitution, the question of searching and producing crude oil was a Union matter. However, she said, the government of the United Republic of Tanzanian and the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government in 2015 with good faith of increasing efficiency and productivity in the search and production of crude oil, agreed that each side would manage these activities through its laws and institutions. “The governments of the two sides have done so in port and airport matters although such issues are Union matters,” the deputy minister further told the House. According to her, there are several procedures to verify the availability of oil in the area concerned. These include a preliminary study of collecting geological and chemistry samples and collecting gravimetry and seismic data. Others are interceptions of geological and physiological data, identification of geological structures of rocky layers, where oil or gas can be found following the results of data analysis of wells in identified areas to verify the presence of either crude oil or natural gas.