PEACE ask anyone is not made in documents, but resides in the hearts of citizens that is why Tanzanians have all the reasons to be proud and patriotically protect their country. That was unveiled recently again that the country has emerged to be the most peaceful nation in East Africa, precisely the ninth in the African continental, according to the Global Peace Index (GPI) 2018 Report. The renowned global body full of thank tanks and professionals, Institute for Economic and Peace (IEP), report released this month puts the country among the nations with the highest state of peace and tranquility in the world. Some may be tempted to ask how and why the country has managed to maintain the peace in the Great Lakes region that has seen some in skirmishes, but in a nutshell - Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, the Father of the Nation had foreseen that to bring peace in the country, is to unite the tribes with one language- Kiswahili and fight tribalism without mercy. For that matter, it is the duty of all citizens as well as their leaders to live to the expectations of the Pan-Africanist, Mwalimu, that is why the country is being ranking 51st also globally in terms of being peaceful. We are told the ranking is based on 23 indicators grouped into three criteria: societal safety and security, extent of ongoing domestic and international conflict and degree of militarisation. According to the report, in East Africa, there seems to be a little sign of an end to the four-year old civil war in South Sudan and the emergence of a new faction in the country under President Salva Kiir’s former military chief Paul Malong. This is likely to prolong the breakdown in peacefulness of the world’s youngest country. Known as the land of Kilimanjaro, Tanzania has climbed up by three places in the index’s hierarchy, amassing 1.837 points far better than the United States of America, which is revered as the land of freedom and home of the braves. The United States has dropped seven spots to 121, well behind Cuba 81 and China 114 and a little too close to the least peaceful country in the world, Syria 163. IEP reveals that despite living in the most peaceful century in human history, the world has become less peaceful over the last decade. The report covers 163 independent states and territories home to 99.7 per cent of the world’s population. Iceland remains the most peaceful country in the world, a position it has held since 2008. New Zealand, Austria, Portugal and Denmark also sit in the top five most peaceful rankings. As Tanzania tops the EAC, Uganda is ranked at 107, Rwanda 103, Kenya 123 and Burundi is ranked 134 out of 163 nations analysed. African countries in the top 10 peaceful nations are Botswana at 29 position, Sierra Leone (35), Ghana (41), Malawi (44), Namibia (43), Zambia (48), Senegal (52), The Gambia (76), Tunisia (78), Burkina Faso (80) and Angola (83). IEP is an independent, with its headquarteres in Sydney, and several offices in New York, The Hague, Mexico City, Brussels and Harare, works with a wide range of partners internationally and collaborates with intergovernmental organisations on measuring and communicating the economic value of peace.