THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), has awarded a Mr Kenedy Ivan, 300,000/- as reparation for the moral prejudice he suffered as a result of being denied free legal assistance in his case in domestic courts. In a judgment delivered recently by the continental court here, the AfCHPR directed the government of Tanzania to pay the said amount free from tax within six months of the notification of the judgment and report to the Court on the implementation thereof after every six months until full implementation. The 39 year-old is currently serving a prison sentence of 30 years after being convicted of the offence of armed robbery. Mr Kenedy had through an application number 025/2016 filed at the Arusha based court, alleged to have suffered violations of the right to a fair trial as provided under Article 7 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. The applicant claims through the application that he was found guilty on evidence that was not properly evaluated and that the magistrate who heard his case failed to call his witnesses upon his request. He further alleges to have not been given free legal assistance during his trials. The Applicant claims that he was not afforded the right to be heard as he had no legal representation at the trial and appeals thus violating his right to be heard. Mr Ivan prayed to the court to award him reparations to rectify the alleged violations. The respondent State had earlier objected to the jurisdiction of the Court and the admissibility of the Application. The court, however, maintained that it had the jurisdiction over the matter since the Application alleged violations of rights provided for in the Charter to which Tanzania is a party to. The Court also found that it had personal jurisdiction over the Parties since on March 29 2010, Tanzania had deposited the declaration provided for under Article 34(6), of the Protocol to the African Charter on the Establishment of the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (the Protocol), and this declaration allows individuals, such as the Applicant, to file the application as per Article 5(3), of the Protocol.