THE government has withdrawn tax on some of the vital materials used by the disabled people in the country, while empowering the Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) to conduct tests and give artificial ingredients to such group of people. The good news was announced before the National Assembly here yesterday by Deputy Minister of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, when supplementing an answer given by the Prime Minister’s Office on the disabled. Earlier, Maulid Mtulia (Kinondoni-CCM), had told the Prime Minister’s Office that people with disabilities have special needs compared to other people and that the number of disabled people has been increasing due to road accidents, especially from bodaboda transport. He therefore wanted to know the actual number of disabled people in the country as per their groups in percentage and what the government’s plan was of building their self-reliance capacity, especially young people, children and women to remove their culture of living through begging. Responding to the question, Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for the disabled, Ms Stella Alex, told the House that there was a total of 2,641,802 disabled people, according to the census report and the national population census of 2012 issued by the National Statistics Office. She disclosed that the total number of disabled people in the country as per their groups and percentage, in bracket, as per the said censor include 16,477 people with albinism (0.04), 858,530 blind (1.93), 425,322 deaf (0.97) and 525,019 walking disability (1.19). The rest, according to the deputy minister, include 401,931 memory (0.91), 324,725 self-care (0.74) and 99,798, as other disabilities (0.23). She said that the government was in final preparation of a register that will help to get accurate data of the disabled in urban and rural areas. Another benefit of the register, the deputy minister said, is that it will also help to identify reasons behind the increase of people with disability in all areas and the challenges they face. She also pointed out that in order to ensure people with disabilities are economically empowered, the government provides a two-percent loan from district council’s own revenue. However, she said all economic empowerment programmes are integrated by including people with disabilities.