IRAMBA Primary School is located in a remote village in Tarime District. Around the school, lessons are in progress during weekdays but with some incomplete classrooms, a situation that affects the children. The school has 4 04 girls and boys hailing from Kangariani and two other neighbouring villages of Bungurere and Kitawasi. Recently, the entire school community was surprised to see visitors walking towards their school compound early in the morning. The visitors was a combination of officials from National Microfinance Bank (NMB) who had a mission to donate building materials worth 10m-- to the school. But the cars used by the visitors could not reach to the school compound due to lack of a passable road. Thus, every one including the Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office who is responsible for education matters in the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government Mr Mwita Waitara had to walk by a short distance to reach the school. “The support we bring to you today has come at the right time, “ NMB Lake Zone Manager Mr Abraham Augustino said as he entered the school compound. The public school started in 2014 with the goal of providing primary education in some parts of the three rural villages. It is now seen as a relief to several hundreds of young boys and girls who would have walked long distances to the neighbouring old schools. “Presently we have 404 pupils 209 of whom are boys and 195 girls. W e lack two classrooms to meet learning needs of our pupils,” said the school head teacher Mr Gichogo Robert Mtundi. He welcomed the NMB donation which included 130 iron sheets, 320 pieces of timber and nails. “This is a significant aid that will help to finish the two classrooms that had been built by parents. We are indeed grateful to NMB,” Mr Mtundi said. The building materials were supplied by Mama Leah Hardware which is run by one of the best performing business women in Tarime. The NMB officials were impressed with the work done by the local supplier. “The supplier has delivered all the building materials on time,” NMB Tarime Branch Manager Mr Gadiel Sawe said. The Deputy Minister Mr W aitara also thanked NMB for complementing efforts by the government to improve learning infrastructure in public schools. “On behalf of the government I thank NMB for this support which is going to end the challenge of class rooms facing this school (Iramba) . I have no sweet words to express our appreciations”, Mr W aitara said shortly after he officially received the building materials. “This is a huge support and it is really encouraging to see the bank reaching out to needy schools located in rural areas,” the Deputy Minister added. He urged residents living around Iramba primary school to take the advantage of free education programme funded by the government. “The government is providing free education and but as parents you also need to meet other obligations like buying school uniforms to ensure no child is missing classes due to lack of uniform,” Mr Waitara who was born and brought up at the Kangariani village where Iramba primary is located told parents and local leaders who turned to witness building materials donated by NMB. Besides the building materials the bank also donated a set of 74 worth five million shillings to Ingwe secondary school on the same day. Ingwe secondary school is located at Nyamongo area, several kilomteres away from Iramba primary school where the handing over of the donations took place. “The chairs and tables will benefit girls who are in form five and six (Advanced Level),” Ms Hellen Andrew, the Headmistress of Ingwe secondary school said. The secondary school also received another support from President John Magufuli in September last year when the President was in Mara region for a working visit. The Head of State made a stopover at Nyamongo and a few minutes fund raising in which millions of shillings was raised in terms of cash and pledges. President Magufuli donated five million cash during the fund raising which involved ministers who were in his delegation and other dignitaries. “The support we are getting from NMB today plus the money which was raised by our President will real help to improve learning environment at Ingwe secondary school. The money raised by the President had enabled us to buy beds, mattresses and chairs,” Ms Andrew said. Tarime District Commissioner (DC) Mr Francis Charles Kabeho thanked NMB for becoming one of the key stakeholders supporting education sector in the gold rich district. “Since I was appointed Tarime DC this is the second aid we are getting from NMB within a very short time. The bank is a good development partner in our district,” Mr Kabeho said. Tarime tops with high number of NMB branches in the region. When all other districts have almost a single branch, Tarime district hosts three NMB branches namely Tarime, Nyamongo and Sirari. In February this year the bank donated various equipment worth 28.5 ml- to improve education and health services in the same district of Tarime. The equipment included 100 desks, 300 iron sheets, 398 timbers, nails and five computers. Schools that benefited from the bank’s February donation are Nyamisangura, Nkende and Nyandoto secondary schools. W hile primary schools are Azimio, Itiyro, Tarime and Nyamayeyeya. In order to improve health service delivery the bank also donated 54 bed sheets, five beds, five mattresses and a delivery bed to Nkongore health centre. NMB says it has spent over seven billion shillings in seven years consecutively on its Social Corporate Social Responsibility (SRC) Policy with education and health sectors getting top priority. “This year alone we have spent 400 ml- in the past three months. Education and health are important things in development,” the NMB Zonal Manager Mr Augustino said. He said investment in education sector is imperative as Tanzania struggles to achieve industrial economy. “These pupils of Iramba primary school we are supporting today are future engineers and technicians of the industries that are being set up in our country,” Mr Augustino said on part of his handing over remarks.