…President directs Minerals Minister Biteko PRESIDENT John Magufuli has directed Minerals Minister Dotto Biteko to hasten transfer of 70 per cent stake in Kiwira Coal and Power Limited (KCPL) from Tan Power Resources Limited (TPR) to the government. The transfer of the shares from the investor to the State will pave the way for other potential investors who have shown interest in the project to commence excavation of coal to generate electricity. Dr Magufuli issued the directives when addressing residents during a brief stopover at Kiwira hamlet en-route to Rungwe District as part of his tour of Mbeya Region, stressing that the ministry should ensure that all debts owed to TPR are paid to enable transfer of its shares to the State. The previously wholly Stateowned coal mine was privatised to TPR in 2015 with the objective of generating 200MW of electricity for the national grid. TPR acquired 70 per cent of the shareholding while the government remained with a stake of 30 per cent. After privatisation, the name of the company was changed from Kiwira Coal Mines Limited to Kiwira Coal and Power Limited (KCPL). Before issuing the directives yesterday, Dr Magufuli was informed by the minister that Kiwira coalmine ceased operations in 2015 after the new investor failed to undertake required investments for mining of coal and generation of electricity. Mr Biteko further assured Dr Magufuli that several potential investors have shown interests to invest in the project but debts and delays in transfer of shares from TPR to the government was a stumbling block for new investors in the project. According to Mr Biteko, when TPR decided to relinquish Kiwira, it left behind a debt of 2.9bn/- which was supposed to be paid as capital gain tax to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). The investor had acquired the 70 per cent stake at 8bn/-. The minister revealed further that TPR was facing claims of debts totaling 40bn/- but verification by State organs found out that the genuine amount was only 1.24bn/- owed to 862 claimants as opposed to 1,862 who were initially listed. “We (the ministry of minerals) have already met and engaged our counterparts from the ministry of finance and planning to see how to settle the debts and pave the way for the transfer of the shares to the government,” he explained. Available statistics indicate that the designed underground capacity of Kiwira coalmine is estimated at between 150,000 and 300,000 tonnes per annum but it requires major investment on mining re-development. During his tour in Mbeya, Dr Magufuli also launched Rungwe Avocado Company Limited (RAC) which undertakes farming and packaging of avocado for export markets. The company has a capacity of packing between 50 and 60 tonnes of the fruits per day and it also provides a reliable market to about 20,000 avocado outgrowers in Rungwe District. Dr Magufuli assured RAC and other current and potential investors in the region that rehabilitation works at Songwe International Airport will play a crucial role in facilitating transport of perishable goods to regional and international markets. On the other hand, President Magufuli assured RAC that the government will verify V alue Added Tax (V AT) refunds owed to the company by TRA for reimbursement.