MINISTER for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, has reprimanded Tanesco regional managers for failing to connect power to houses of residents, who have paid for the service across the country. He directed all regional managers, who had failed to timely provide the service to those who had paid for it to report to Tanesco headquarters by May 5 with resignation letters in their hands. Speaking to Dosidosi villagers in Kiteto District, Manyara Region, Dr Kalemani said he was not ready to pardon regional managers, who had failed to connect power to the residents’ houses until last month. “I can no longer continue pardoning regional managers, who have persistently failed to connect power to the houses of some residents, causing unnecessary inconvenience, including depriving Tanesco of its rightful revenue," he noted. He expressed his dismay at Nchinira Village in Kiteto District, when he witnessed some utility poles installed, but without electric wires on them. The minister issued a strong warning to the contractor under Rural Energy Agency (REA) programme for his poor performance, directing Tanesco manager in Kiteto District to submit their letters to the ministry, explaining why power connection in the area had failed. “I don’t want to see electric poles erected without electric wires on them. Once the electric poles are erected electric wires should be fixed on them to light up houses,” he said. He directed the contractor to light up Dosidosi and Nchinira villages and other neighbouring areas by next week. Dr Kalemani urged the head of schools and local government leaders countrywide to pay for power connection costs for their schools and institutions to get the service immediately. “It is crucial for schools to have electricity as it boosts student performance for teachers will be able to conduct practicals without any problem,” he noted. The minister assured Kiteto residents that each village would be connected to power as they were all on REA III list, the first phase is expected to be completed in June this year. However, he said the government had instructed the contractor to ensure he completed the work of connecting all villages by September this year, which implied the project would be completed within the contract period. During his tour to inspect the implementation of power projects in Kiteto District, he was accompanied by various leaders including Kiteto MP Emmanuel Papian, Acting Energy Commissioner Juma Mkobya, Tanesco regional and district managers as well as various experts from the Ministry and REA.