TANZANIA Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) is scheduled to launch its state-of-the art commercial printing press by June, this year, the National Assembly heard here yesterday. Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Minister Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, tabling the ministry’s 30.8bn/- budget estimates for the 2019/20 fiscal year, said the public publishing house envisages improving efficiency, performance and boosting revenues. TSN publishes the Daily News, Sunday News, Habari Leo and Spoti Leo. Dr Mwakyembe said the printing press has already been shipped in, hinting that currently the company is renovating the building before the machine installation. “The renovation works are on the final stage, we expect to start operations by June, this year,” he said. The minister said the printing machine is expected to offer various services, including printing books, calendar, leaflets, posters,reports, diaries, banners and many other documents. He said TSN is working on improvement of online services, which help in marketing the services and products to improve and boost the company revenues. “As a public entity, TSN has been offering digital services on which the company’s products are displayed, this also helps to boost the company’s businesses,” he noted. On the business forums, which have won TSN accolades, Dr Mwakyembe said the platform will soon cross borders, saying the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman have already shown interest to the idea. He told the house that through close collaboration, Tanzanian embassies abroad are coordinating and setting strong plans to ensure that TSN business forums are as well staged outside the country. Dr Mwakyembe said the business forums have been providing a platform for business stakeholders to share experience and highlight business opportunities. “During the forums that help to dig out the untapped opportunities, TSN has been using a number of its outlets including the Daily News online, twitter, YouTube and facebook accounts to promote various business opportunities in different regions in the country,” said Dr Mwakyembe. He said on coping with the competitive market in terms of technology, advancement in the media and printing industry, TSN has devised various strategies to address the challenges and remain stable in market. “TSN has been implementing its strategies to maintain its market share and improve revenues. By March, this year, the Daily News digital unit had increased its viewers to 47,000,” he noted. He added that TSN newspapers also reach to Rwanda and Burundi markets, noting that the company has been able to tap business opportunities in the East African market. “With the commercial printing unit, which is scheduled to start operations in June, the company is expected to improve its performance and revenues,” he said. Dr Mwakyembe assured the legislative house that TSN management is looking forward to strengthen revenue collection system and improve its managerial performance as well as offer short and long term human resources training to its staff. Dr Mwakyembe added that the ministry is committed to ensure there are vibrant media industries that observe the code of conduct in the country. On Kiswahili, he said Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation Ministry is drawing up a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with some countries on the design of guidelines for training package.