THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Election Committee yesterday announced that Young Africans General Election will be held on May 5th this year, denouncing April 28th proposed by the club’s Board of Trustees. Last week, the club’s Board of Trustees members under its Chairman George Mkuchika had an emergency meeting at the club’s headquarters in the city where among other things; they proposed that the highly awaited General Election should be held on April 28th. Shortly after the meeting, Mkuchika revealed a six member committee to take care of all the team’s affairs until the election time which was made up of Mashauri Lucas (Chairman), Said Ntimizi (Vice-Chairman), Ndama Hussein, Hussein Nyika, Moses Katabaro and Maulid Kitenge. Moreover, the chairman named a 10 member committee to oversee all the upcoming election procedures consisting of Samuel Mapande (Chairman), Daniel Mlelwa, Mustafa Nagari, Godfrey Mapunda, Edward Mwakingwe, Samuel Mangesho, Issa Gavu, Venance Mwamoto, Seif Gulamali and Dunstan Kitandula. However, addressing members of the media here, TFF’s Chairman of Election Committee Ally Mchungahela said the elections will be conducted on May 5th and that there will be enough time for the contestants to pick forms and follow all the procedures pertaining to the General Election. “As TFF, we will monitor closely all the steps leading to the General Election to make sure that they do not attract irregularities and that new leaders who will be elected should be found in transparent manner,” Mchungahela said. He further said all the previous contenders who picked nomination forms to vie for various positions are legalized to do so and are now waiting to link up with their colleagues to begin campaign. According to Mchungahela, nomination forms will be available from today up to April 7th at the headquarters of Yanga. Two Yanga Executive Committee Members--Samuel Lukumayi and Hussein Nyika were the last key officials to resign from their responsibilities to pave way for the General Election at the club this year. Addressing members of the media shortly after resigning, Lukumayi who served as the Acting Chairman of the club, said the decision to step down was made to allow the club to conduct general election and not the one meant to fill the vacant posts. “About two weeks ago, we were four members in the Executive Committee, but two of our colleagues have resigned, meaning that if the election to fill vacant posts was given a green light, then six posts could have been contested for and not the usual four places as before,” Lukumayi said. On his part, Nyika who doubled as the club’s Chairman of the Players Registration and Competition Committees, said despite resigning from his duties, he is still the legitimate member of the club and will offer his assistance to the incoming new leaders of the club. “Our decision to step down is for the benefit of the club and we believe that the upcoming general election will be conducted in a transparent manner,” Nyika said. He also thanked good relationship he received from different stakeholders during his leadership tenure. However, when they were asked as to whether they will pick nomination forms to contest in the upcoming election, Lukumayi said he would rather keep his card close to his chest, while Nyika declined to comment further insisting that he is a legal member of the club hence capable to do anything for the benefit of the club.