THE former Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club snooker captain Firoz Yusufali was among those who started snooker monthly mug tournament in a sound note. Yusufali was in his fine form when came from a frame down to beat Abbas Mohamed by 2-1 frames in the best of three frames Group B opening match at the club on Monday night. Mohamed started the first frame strongly to emerge the leader by 25 points, before Yusufali reacted strongly to settle the score with 18 points and went on to win the final frame by 29 points. In another Division B match, Mitesh Bharai humiliated Shakir Bandali with 2-0-frame win to sail through in the event organised and sponsored by the new snooker committee. Also sparkled in the Division B showdown was Chagan Chaga who got twoframe straight victory over Dimesh Mauji. Kalpesh Lavingia sailed through at the Group A after beating Ali Gulamali 2-1 in a closely contested game. Lavingia started well to win the first frame by 16 points, but Gulamali levelled the score by winning the second frame by 13 points. Lavingia steadied his hand to win the third frame with 22 points. The monthly snooker tournament that started on Monday night at the club, will wind up April 6 this year. Sanjay Patadia, the club’s new snooker captain told the ‘Daily News’ in the city yesterday that the event has started well so far. Patadia said that over 25 participants, slotted into two groups; A and B are involved in the title chase of the six-day event. “Participants are pooled into two groups basing on handicap basis,” he said. He added that about 12 participants are competing from Group A, while Group B will see 13 players in a battle for the event’s diadem. He, however, said that the tournament is played in the best of three frames and is staged in a knockout format. The captain complemented his committee members for their cooperation that makes tournament highly competitive. Other committee members who were recently elected to serve the snooker section include the vice captain Atish Chohan, Ali Gulamali (Secretary), Harshid Barmeda (Competition Secretary) while Chagan Chaga is a treasurer.