GEITA Gold Exchange (GGX ) and similar establishments to follow should be put under the Bank of Tanzania and Capital Market Securities Authority (CMSA) to improve their operational efficiencies, a brokerage firm has suggested. Orbit Securities said in its Financial Markets Q uarterly Report that minerals exchanges and transactional operations of mineral resources should be delegated to financial authorities. “This is the standard worldwide where minerals and commodities exchanges are regulated by financial regulators,” it said in the report. “The establishment of Geita Gold Exchange (GGX ) is quite commended and an initiation in the right direction as the country squeeze more cream from mineral resources,” the report said. “Despite enormous benefits expected from the gold exchange, operations of mineral houses can be improved to include financial stakeholders such as the CMSA, BoT, DSE, TMX and other financial dealers and intermediaries”. GGX was established mid- March and launched by the Premier, Kassim Majaliwa as an implementation of Mining Regulations which inculcate the establishment of mineral and gem houses to centralize all business activities involving minerals. The Gold Exchange is the first of its kind in East and Central Africa and third in Africa after Botswana and South Africa. “The Exchange is expected to increase earnings of small scale miners as well as foreign earnings for the country and improve tax collections.” Currently, the Mining Commission is tasked with establishing mineral and gem houses and overseeing all operation therewith in a bid to improve operational efficiency of the gold exchange and mineral houses and extract more benefits from mineral resources. Orbit report advised that the Mining Commission should regulate and issue licences involving activities such as exploration, extraction, smelting and upholding all licences to adhere to mining laws and regulations. It gave examples of the United Kingdom where all participating members in the gold market are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and parties wishing to trade gold on the market to do so through principle dealers. The use of few brokers or dealers is also recommended as this centralizes transactional information creating a simpler price discovery mechanism and easier way to collect taxes and royalties.