A GOLD mining company in Singida Region plans to list on Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE)’s alternative market to raise some 30 million US dollars (about 70bn/-) after an all-inclusive initial public offer (IPO). Singida Resources, a subsidiary of London Stock Exchange’s listed Shanta Gold, has already submitted its prospectus to Capital Markets and Securities Authority (CMSA) and listed DSE for review almost a month ago. Arch Financial and Investment Advisory Managing Director Mr Iyen Nsemwa said the firm wanted to go ahead with the IPO immediately since mining of the gold at Singida field waits the funding from the public. “We want to go to the market like yesterday. The mining preparations are ready. We only wait for the money from IPO,” Mr Nsemwa told the ‘Daily News’. Arch is the leading advisor of the IPO. Singida Resources will list the entire 30 million US dollar IPO at value of 500/- a share on DSE’s Enterprise Growth Market (EGM). Proposed IPO proceeds would finance the upfront capital to bring Singida mine into production and provide additional funds for exploration targeting resource expansion. CMSA Principal Public Relations Officer Charles Shirima said they have received the prospectus and were working on the document. “The document is on its initial review but if all goes well, the IPO will be okayed,” Mr Shirima said. If listed, Singida Resources will be the first mining firm to raise fund locally and listed on DSE either market. Shanta Gold CEO Eric Zurrin, Chief Executive Officer, said they are focused on bringing Singida into production through “an asset-level financing” that unlocks value for Shanta Gold shareholders while also allowing the company to retain a controlling interest in this valuable asset. “I am pleased with the initial feedback from institutional investors across East Africa who are seeking US dollar linked investments in support of industrialisation,” Mr Zurrin said in a statement. “We are pleased to show our continued support to Tanzania, and hope that this IPO will offer Tanzanians a rare investment opportunity within their own mining sector,” he said. Shanta will retain at least 51 per cent ownership of Singida and will operate the project. The project’s economics showed average annual production from open pit mining of 26,000 oz for an initial six-year, while pre-production Capex requirement of 16 million US dollars and 3.0 million US dollars for working capital and Net Present Value (NPV) of 31 million US dollars and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 67 per cent at an 8.0 per cent discount rate and using the current gold forward curve as at early last December. Shanta’s flagship New Luika Gold Mine in Chunya, in Mbeya commenced production in 2012 and produced 81,872 ounces in 2018.