AS Zanzibar embarks on health tourism, it has created strategic plans to improve and upgrade hospital facilities and its human resources to be up to the task. Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) is ready to make plans with the Zanzibar government in training doctors and nurses at the institute to enhance their ability on servicing cardiac patients. This was said yesterday by the Zanzibar Minister for Health, Mr Hamad Rashid as he conducted an impromptu visit at JKCI. “Having capable human resource is among the issues that the President insists on, because buildings are not the major things when it comes to hospitals,” he stated. Adding, “Now we want to train doctors at the JKCI so that they can go back and work. Human resources and material resources must be prepared so that people can trust us to provide them with reliable services.” He further thanked JKCI for allowing doctors and nurses from Zanzibar to visit the institute for short course trainings, making a step in promoting health tourism. “Recently we have started training doctors, and currently 15 are in Cuba, 12 are in Egypt and others are in China. We believe that once they return, we will have capable doctors. Although academic ability is one thing and experience is another, hence they will need to come and sit with others to get experience,” he said. He added that the government now has an official programme to review the number of doctors needed and for which departments by 2025. “We also have plans to build a hospital with a capacity of 1,000 beds at Bunguni Teaching Hospital and it is expected to be complete by 2020. Processes have already been initiated, whereby by June or July construction will commence,” he explained. This initiative also took place so as to reduce the number of patients from Zanzibar who are sent abroad, he said. “We should be able to use the opportunities available in our hospitals so as to reduce the number of patients sent abroad instead of being treated in the country.” “In Zanzibar, not less than 8bn/- is being used per year to send patients abroad, money that if used to improve and upgrade our hospitals, it will help a great deal,” he asserted. He said that he believed that if local institutes are given the ability, then in the near future the country won’t need to send patients abroad and use the amount of money for their treatment. “I am here for three things, including strengthening our unity that has been built over a long period of time through our institutions so that they collaborate in providing good services,” he said. Zanzibar has a good neural institute where some patients from Tanzania mainland go to receive the treatment. “These collaborations are put in place to help show the essence of the union as it is not just mere words.” He also applauded the services provided by the institute, “During this impromptu visit, I have been able to witness that the said services are actually what is practiced and not just put on paper.” On the other hand, JKCI Institute Director of Nursing Services, Dr Robert Mallya said that in their focus of promoting health tourism, it is important to have experienced doctors and nurses. “I agree that among other things, capable doctors will be a plus to this tourism sector, and the institute accepts doctors and nurses to be brought to JKCI for trainings while Zanzibar is still building proper infrastructure for having a heart department.” He also revealed that until recently, staff from JKCI has visited Zanzibar on several occasions together with Save the Child Tanzania for screening people with heart problems, “we have conducted heart surgeries to about 35 patients at Benjamin Mkapa Hospital in Zanzibar.” He also thanked the Zanzibar government for trusting them, as they signed a Memorandum of Understanding in treating heart patients from Zanzibar. “And now we have already started receiving patients, where only one patient is still admitted while the rest have headed back home after receiving treatment.” “Relatives of the patients from Zanzibar and the mainland have been able to visit their patients, something that would have not been possible if they were to be treated in India,” he said. He explained that the institute will continue to receive patients and provide services as long as they have the required documents indicating that they are coming from Zanzibar. “We are very transparent and our accounts are very clear at any time, and if there are inquiries one can check,” he said. He added that surgery services provided at JKCI are safe and similar to any other hospital across the globe. “In the period of two years, we have lost only six patients,” he revealed. He said that although it is a process, but they believe that Zanzibar will soon be able to stand on its own and provide heart treatment also.