THE country has adequate foreign exchange reserves of up to US dollars 4.67 billion (about 10.8tril/-) that can import products from outside the country for almost five months, thanks to the recent Bank of Tanzania (BoT) special operation to crack down on bureaux de change operating illegally. The Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, said here yesterday that the country also has enough food reserves of up to 124 per cent for the 2018/19 financial year. He said the government does not intend to spend foreign currencies to import food from outside the country, save for emergency drought that may occur in the country in future. Regarding the largest stashes of foreign currencies, the minister moved to clear unfounded allegations levelled against the government that it decided to close foreign exchange shops because it had run out of foreign cash. “I also want to clear the much publicised fear that the government had opted for the previous era where foreign currencies were provided through rationing so as to meet demand of implementing strategic projects; that they hold no grain of truth,’’ he added. According to Dr Mpango, in November last year, the BoT coordinated a special operation in Arusha aimed at identifying bureaux de change which were operating without valid licences or carrying out illegal operations. The same operation was conducted in Dar es Salaam in February and March consecutively to identify shops that were evading tax and operating illegally. As a result of the operation, the bureaux de change were closed pending ongoing investigations and action on those which will be found to have broken the law. Yesterday, BoT governor Professor Florens Luoga said the investigation was being carried out by security organs and that immediately after completion of investigations, the number of the shops that were operating illegally would be released and appropriate legal actions taken against the owners. According to Dr Mpango, government following the operation, as of March 30, 2019, the government had a reserve of foreign currency amounting to US Dollars 4.67 billion which could be spent on importing goods in the country for 4.8 months. He said the operation contributed to the shilling’s stability which had earlier depreciated because some bureau de change shops were contravening the Foreign Exchange Act, 1992, and the Foreign Exchange (Bureau de Change), Regulations 2015 and its subsequent amendments in 2017. “Before the exercise to crack the whip against illegal foreign exchange business, one US dollar was trading at an average of 2,450/- while after this exercise, the same dollar is trading at the value of 2,300/- on average,’’ said Dr Mpango. He added that revenue accrued from financial sources obtained after selling products outside the country were valued at US dollars 8.6 million in the year ending February 2019 which is an increment of 1.4 per cent compared to foreign currencies that were obtained in the corresponding period of 2018. “The government through BoT wants businesspeople owning bureau de change shops to comply with the law, failure to which appropriate legal actions will be instituted accordingly,’’ said the minister.