SOME national leaders from both the Union and Zanzibar governments are expected to lead Tanzanians, including ministers, defence/security officers and foreign envoys, in praying for First Zanzibar President Abeid Amani Karume. The prayers will be held at Zanzibar Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM)'s head office, Kisiwandui, in Stone Town. According to Mr Mohamed Aboud Mohamed, State Minister’s Office in the Second Vice President, the prayers will be followed by placing wreaths on Karume's grave outside the CCM building. "Preparations for the event are completed. We expect national leaders, including ministers and some officers from diplomatic missions in Tanzania will join us tomorrow (today) to participate in the ceremonial event. There will be also members from Karume family," he said. From last Tuesday to yesterday, some institutions including the Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Academy (Zanzibar Campus) organised different events, mainly forums to talk about Karume particularly the best things that current leaders and the youth could inherit and practise for the benefit of the nation. Patriotism, good leadership, volunteerism, leadership commitment, provision of better social services, unity, democracy, agriculture, tolerance and better housing were among the topics discussed during the forums. In his speech at the opening of the forum, Saturday (yesterday) at Sheikh Idrissa Abdulwakil Hall, Second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi said Karume was a hero in many areas, including promotion of democracy and human rights such as abolishing prisons and establishing reformatory centres. He said Karume was an exemplary and visionary leader in Africa, who had shown commitment to seeing that Zanzibar and Africa united and there was respect for human rights. "It is unfortunate that some people are misleading our youths by telling untrue history and tarnishing the image of the government." Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Second Vice President Shaaban Seif Mohamed said during a forum chaired by Mr Mohamed Aboud there was a lot that people particularly the youth could learn from Karume - his lifestyle and leadership, and that from this year his office had decided to introduce Karume Week so that people could organise forums to learn about Karume and other past leaders. Karume, assassinated on April 7, 1972 at ASP (now CCM) head office in Kisiwandui, started his political career 25 years before the 1964 Zanzibar Revolution. In 1955, he served as a member of the colonial legislative council before moving ahead to become the first President of Afro Shiraz Party. He was the Zanzibar President for eight years.