YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera has disputed the red card shown to defender, Kelvin Yondani, in the 3-2 win over Kagera Sugar at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Thursday. Classic goals were netted in the encounter, as Yanga extended their lead at the summit of the Mainland Premier League table. The Jangwani Street lads have now posted 74 points; 11 clear of second-placed Azam after playing 31 matches, one ahead of the ‘ice cream makers’, who will be on the sidelines until Sunday, when they face Mbeya City at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya. Four days later, Azam will travel to Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara to face Ndanda FC. The Jangwani Street lads are currently 17 points ahead of third placed and defending champions Simba. However, the Msimbazi Street lads have nine matches in hand and could go top of the table if they win them all. Kagera Sugar opened the scoring through Paul Ngwai, before Kassim Khamis pumped the ball into his own nets to pull level in the first half. Yanga went ahead shortly after the break through Heritier Makambo but Khamis equalised before Thabani Kamusoko snatched the winner for Yanga. However, Yanga suffered a huge blow, when they were reduced to ten men with nine minutes to go, after Yondani was shown straight red card by referee Alfred Vitalis, for retaliation by hitting Kassim Khamis. Zahera said the red card given to Yondani was invalid because Kagera Sugar player Kassim Khamis was the one who committed the foul. Zahera also said that his players were still playing with fatigue because of playing a lot of matches. Yanga next league assignment will be against Mtibwa Sugar at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro on Wednesday. Apart from missing Yondani, they will also be without midfielder Feisal Salum ‘Fei Toto’ who has accumulated three yellow cards. Speaking shortly after the game, Yanga Team Manager, Hafidh Saleh said missing Yondani and Salum will be a big blow but he believes the technical bench is working on the replacement, going into the crunch battle away to Mtibwa Sugar, as they seek to maintain their title charge. “Missing the two players will have an adverse effect for the team going into the crunch battle against Mtibwa Sugar. Saleh also thanked Yanga diehard fans in Mwanza for their wholeheartedly support, calling them to continue with the same spirit in the remaining assignment the team faces this season. Kagera Sugar midfielder, Kassim Khamis said the team played well but they were not lucky enough to get the positive results. He promised they will fight to avoid relegation.