DCB Commercial Bank Plc targets to increase its customers to 300,000 by 2022 from the current 175,000 as the institution through its strategic plan plans to establish itself as a stronger player in commercial banking in the country. The bank’s director general, Godfrey Ndalahwa made the revelation yesterday, noting that DCB Bank would open five more branches and 25 service centres to increase the number of customers. “This will enable the bank to attain its goal of increasing the number of customers, including small and medium enterprises (SMEs). So far, DCB Bank has eight branches in the country,” said the bank boss during an event to announce the outcome of DCB Bank share sales. Mr Ndalahwa noted that DCB Bank would improve its efficiency to reach 200 per cent in its balance sheet by 2022, while improving its profits by 25 per cent. He pointed out that DCB Bank had registered great strides for the past 18 years and that the financial institution had become the first bank to register in the Dar es Salaam Stock Market in 2013. “DCB Bank has managed to increase its customers from only 6,530 in 2001 to 175,000 in 2018. The bank has extended its services from one branch to eight branches,” said the bank’s director general. DCB Bank Board chairman, Prof Lucian Msambichaka, said DCB Bank share sales had helped the bank to increase its business capital to 26.7bn/- from 16.9bn/-, equivalent to 57 per cent increase. He said DCB Bank share price began at 265/- in the Dar es Salaam Stock Market to enable every member of the public to buy shares, saying the bank had set the affordable price of shares to enable Tanzanians to invest in the bank. Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, who graced the event, challenged financial institutions to focus services on rural areas to reach 75 per cent of middle and low income earners in the areas. She commended DCB Bank for notable achievements to be ranked 22nd out of 58 banks with good performance in the country, urging other financial institutions to emulate the financial institution to reach low and middle income earners in the country.