MORE than 350 youths in the informal settlements of Dar es Salaam are set to benefit from Pan-African Youth Entrepreneur Development (PAYED) programme that will help them increase profitability of their small retail shops. The one-year programme targets young entrepreneurs who are owners, managers or employees of existing small shops, while also piloting activities to help motivated youth launch new micro-retail enterprises. Through the training and coaching, the programme also aims to increase the adoption of best practices by 70 per cent and increase sales by 30 per cent. Supported by the international non-profit organisation TechnoServe in partnership with Citi Foundation, it is set to support the youth across other African countries of Kenya, Nigeria and Côte d’Ivoire. The PAYED project will provide young people with training on business skills and personal effectiveness, as well as tailored one-onone advisory services so that they can improve operations at current stores or launch new micro-retailing ventures. The project is expected to enable shop owners to overcome obstacles through shop management processes, accounting, marketing, financing and technology. Regional Programme Manager at Technoserve, Ms Tunsime Kyando, said PAYED programme methodology combines individual in-store consulting, group training and innovative digital solutions. “Through these tools, we will equip shop owners with management skills and business knowledge, foster business support networks and connections and optimize stores’ financial performance, aesthetics, product ranges and displays,” she noted. She further said that micro- retailers hold the potential to improve hundreds of thousands of lives, but with limited business skills, they struggle to make profits. The project will provide targeted support which will enable them to reduce costs, increase profits and drive economic growth in their communities. Expounding further, she said small shops are a vital part of the economy across the city, purchasing local products, supplying essential goods for local consumers and creating jobs for local workers.