NATIONAL U-17 football side, Serengeti Boys, Head Coach, Oscar Mirambo believes his side can do wonder today when they face Angola in their final game of group A at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Serengeti Boys will be looking to end their winless run in the group after losing all their two opening games at the ongoing U-17 Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. Mirambo charges lost the group opener to Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets, following 5-4 defeat last Sunday, before a 3-0 loss at the hands of Uganda Cubs on Wednesday, making their chances to qualify into the semifinals of the tournament complicated. However, Serengeti Boys can stand a chance to cruise into the semi-finals with a victory by at least three goals margin, depending on what happens between Nigeria and Uganda. Coach Mirambo said they ought to win their last tie against Angola and after that, there are some calculations which will be made to see which team cruise to the semifinals. “We are not yet out of the tournament because our survival will depend on the results versus Angola. If we win and Nigeria win, all of us (Serengeti Boys, Angola and Uganda) will have three points such that calculations will be made to find the next team to go through to the last four,” the coach said. Speaking about the readiness to execute the task, Mirambo said the boys are in great spirit and high morale ready for the battle. Mirambo also urged supporters to forget about the past results and turn up in their huge numbers at the venue to continue supporting the team. On his part Serengeti Boys forward, Edmund John said there is a serious need for them to pick a win against Angola after suffering defeats to Nigeria and Uganda Cubs. John said they need to complete the tournament on a good note by picking one win. “It has been very painful suffering defeat to the two games. We had expected so much, but football is a tricky sport.” “Playing Angola will be like a final for us because we don’t want to complete the tournament without a win. We are going to push ourselves against Angola to win,” he added. While Serengeti Boys will be battling Angola at the national Stadium, at the same time Uganda Cubs will be clashing with Nigeria at the Azam Chamazi Complex on the outskirt of Dar es Salaam city. Although Nigeria top Group A with six points from two matches, but must avoid a defeat by three goals margin when they face Uganda because both sides have plus two goals difference. Third placed Angola are also still in the race in spite of the defeat they suffered in the hands of the Golden Eaglets. Cameroon have already booked place for the U-17 FIFA World Cup after picking their second straight win in the ongoing tournament.