PREPARATIONS are on top gear for the 10 kilometres Dar Health race to take place in Dar es Salaam on May 1st this year. The inaugural road race which is open for runners from all over the country and beyond is organised by Dar es Salaam based firm Eye Promoter. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, one of the event’s coordinators, Abdallah Chapa said that everything was going on well so far and registration is open for those wishing to participate. He said that hefty prizes await top three finishers in the active 10km race, while all participants will also receive medals and certificate of participation. Chapa said apart from 10km run, there will be also other categories, including 5km run, 1km race for children active run and 1km fun run. He said the event themed ‘Live, Laugh & Run for Health’ is open for men and women and will start at 6:35 am of May Day. He said it will start at green area which is also known as the field of horses or ‘Mabembeani’ at Kenyatta Drive road. Course route according to Chapa also includes Toure Drive to Coco Beach, Haile Selassie to Msasani road, IST Masaki and Oysterbay Primary School, before finishing the 10km showdown at the Green Oysterbay along Kenyatta Drive, the same place where it started. “The race Dar Ten K run could not be possible without technical cooperation from the Athletics Association Dar es Salaam, Dar es Salaam City Council, South Selcom and Nabundu Afrika,” said Chapa. He said that the concept and structure of Dar Ten K run is considered to be running with bringing together the residents of Dar es Salaam and runners regardless of their gender and age and rejoice together. Chapa said that imparting society with sports culture is the responsibility of every one, saying his organisation felt it was wise to join the government and other institutions to engage people in sports to help them keep fit. He said due to system of life in the city, many people do not have time to involve in practice, so events like this are ideal to create that culture. “We welcome Dar residents and from other places to come together and enjoy the race,” he said.