OVER 1,000 maternal deaths were prevented within 13 years in Kigoma Region, thanks to the Bloomberg Philanthropies Maternal and Reproductive Health Programme in Tanzania which is expected to end this year. Because of the ambitious programme, which sought to reduce the number of children born in the hands of midwives, among others, about 70,000 children were born in improved health centres, according to the Kigoma Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Paul Chaote. Dr Chaote was speaking at a meeting here to give a briefing on the success that the programme had achieved so far since it started in 2006. Tanzania is among the countries of the world which have the highest numbers of maternal deaths, with a woman dying every hour from pregnancy or childbirth complications. Often, this is because the women live far from healthcare facilities. For every woman that dies, another 20 suffer an injury, illness or disability, often with life-long consequences. In partnership with H&B Agerup Foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies supported the Kigoma Maternal and Reproductive Health Programme. According to the RMO, about 1,100 maternal deaths were prevented in Kigoma since 2011 by taking life-saving obstetric services closer to the women. The programme resulted in increased healthcare deliveries in Kigoma, rising from 48 per cent in 2011 to 72 per cent in 2017. In effect, it ensured that more expectant women and newborns had access to the requisite equipment, supplies and staff trained to save lives . In addition to providing important life saving equipment, the programme had also built, equipped and adequately staffed operation theatres in the health facilities to assist pregnant women who faced birthing complications towards safe delivery. As a result of the programme, expectant women no longer need to travel long distances to reach the Regional Referral Hospital at Maweni. The Programme considerably supported improvements at three public hospitals, 13 health centers and 70 dispensaries in Kigoma Region, resulting in over 70,000 babies delivered in improved facilities, thus vastly improving their likelihood of surviving and thriving. Bloomberg Philanthropies has been supporting a maternal health program in remote regions of Tanzania since 2006. This program is aimed at upgrading village-level health centers by constructing operating rooms so that the centers can provide emergency obstetric care as well as training nonphysician healthcare workers –Assistant Medical Officers and nurse midwives– to provide emergency obstetric care. Other objectives are incorporating family planning and comprehensive post-abortion care into targeted health centers. Providing family planning services through community service days and running mass media campaigns and employing community health workers to educate communities about the importance of skilled birth attendance and family planning.