THE Ministry of Education, Science and Technology is seeking Parliament’s approval for a 862.7bn/- development budget for the next fiscal year to enable it finance, among other things, at least five key programmes for improving the country’s quality of education. This is aimed at ensuring that the country’s schools and colleges produce competent graduates who could compete in the job market and create their own jobs. In total, the ministry wants the National Assembly to endorse its 1.38trl/- estimated budget for 2019/20, 523bn/- of which would be for the recurrent budget. Tabling the budget proposals here yesterday, the sector minister, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, cited planned projects for funding as Education Programme for Results (EP4R), Education and Skills for Productive Jobs (ESPJ) and progromme for strengthening vocational education and skills. Others are Primary Educational Development Programme (MMEM), Teacher Education Support Project (TESP) and Secondary Education Quality Improvement Programme (SEQUIP). Each programme and its proposed funds in brackets are ESPJ (56.5bn/-), strengthening vocational education and skills (72.8bn/-), MMEM (20.4bn/-), TESP (20.3bn/-) and SEQUIP (30.8bn/-). Elaborating on funds for each programme, Prof Ndalichako said under the EP4R, the ministry plans to purchase 65 vehicles to strengthen control of quality of schools, build 55 offices for education quality controllers and provide incentives to 400 secondary schools that improved performance in examinations. By last March, she explained, the ministry assessed a total of 6,966 schools and teacher training colleges, focused on the quality of the facilities and advising them on improvement strategies. The number of assessed facilities was 61.5 per cent of the targeted 11,327 during the 2018/19 financial year, according to the minister. The funds also intended to implement the ESPJ by constructing V ETA colleges in Ruangwa, Kongwa, Kasulu and Nyasa district councils. The ministry would further allocate the funds for repairing community colleges and buy learning and teaching facilities for them. Prof Ndalichako told the Parliament that under the development budget, the ministry plans to improve Teachers Resource Centres (TRC) and facilitate publication and distribution of textbooks and teachers guidance books for all subjects. She said among other activities under the TESP programme, the ministry would buy online reference books for public 35 teacher training colleges and distribute Information and Communication Technology (ICT) facilities to them. The ministry’s proposed budget of 1.3trl/- for 2019/20 is lower than the 2018/19 budget which is the 1.4trl/- that Parliament had endorsed, whereby 476.5bn/- was allocated for recurrent and 929.9bn/- for development budget, respectively. On the implementation of the 2018/19 budget, Prof Ndalichako said by March this year, the ministry received 348.4bn/- for the recurrent budget, which is about 73.1 per cent of the proposed amount. The ministry has received a total of 597.3bn/- for funding its development budget, equivalent to 64.2 per cent of the total allocation. When presenting its report yesterday, the Parliamentary Committee on Social Service and Community Development, which oversees activities of the ministry, stressed the need for introducing scholarship awards to best students in Form Six examinations. Committee’s Deputy Chairman Juma Nkamia said the committee also proposed that the country’s education system should be reviewed. Presenting views of the official opposition camp in Parliament, shadow minister Susan Lyimo said the camp wasn’t opposed to government expenditure of donor funds in implementing development programmes in the education sector. However, she said the camp was only cautioning about what types of programmes should be covered under the arrangement. She argued that going by the importance of some programmes, they are supposed to be funded by locally generated funds.