Chinese investments in Tanzania have been rising steadily, placing China on top of the list of foreign investors in the largest east African nation. The Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke, said yesterday that Chinese investments in Tanzania amounted to 7bn US dollars (about 16 trillion shillings) this year. Ms Wang was speaking during the China-Tanzania High- Level Dialogue on Investment and Business Environment, which was attended by representatives of Chinese companies and over 25 government associations. She said China was also the largest project contractor in the country, pointing out that projects signed between the two countries in 2018 Tanzania and China amounted to 1.3bn US dollars. The bilateral trade volume in 2018 reached 3.976 billion USD, registering a year-on-year growth of 15 per cent. “At present, over 200 Chinese companies are operating in Tanzania, making China the largest trading partner for the country for three consecutive years,” she noted. Ambassador Wang pointed out that the dialogue was of its kind, aiming at facilitating understanding, communication and improvement of the investment and business environment, as well as solving problems and concerns faced by Chinese companies based in the country. She further remarked: “The government of Tanzania drafted an improved blueprint of improving business environment and investment policies; this has helped to create a good business environment,” Adding: “This month, we have witnessed improved tendencies from the Tanzanian government that there will be policy adjustments in tax; especially work permits and registering companies.” She anticipated that all participants in the dialogue will communicate and interact with each other in a friendly, candidand pragmatic attitude, and offer solutions and recommendations on the best way to enhance mutual understanding by addressing existing problems between the two sides. “We would like to see that the decree and guidelines are being put to reality so as to create a favorable environment for investing and conducting business in the country, hoping the dialogue will achieve some positive outcome and enhance communication and mutual understanding.” On the other hand, Minister of State - Prime Minister’s Office (Investment), Ms Angellah Kairuki, explained that pursuing policy reforms had its challenges. “I want everyone to clearly understand that this government is seriously implementing reforms that aim at ensuring existing of appropriate balance between the rights and obligations of investors, and the need to provide sufficient protection to foreign investors,” she said. In collaboration with various stakeholders, Ms Kairuki revealed that currently there was a process of developing a Blueprint Action Plan (BAP) which would streamline and rationalise licensing procedures, taxes and levies that will address the cumbersome procedure of filling with dozens of regulatory agencies that face investors. She further urged investors to be swift in adapting policy changes so that they can be able to make good decisions when investing in the country. “The government is focusing at improving investment environments so as to tap more investors from China and the rest of the world, we promise to offer better investment incentives,” she further remarked, adding: “We shall strive to ensure ease of doing business in Tanzania by addressing the delays in the issuance of work permits and residence permits.” She explained that Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) was set to reduce some of its taxes, while the Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) had reduced about five taxes and the Ministry of Agriculture had removed 114 taxes in transportation of food produce, so as to create a conducive investment environment. To cement this commitment, Ms Kairuki assured that the government would institutionalise the dialogue with investors and promised to hold it once a year. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Dr Damas Ndumbaro, said that the good relationship between Tanzania and China boosted growth of investment and economic growth. “We have commenced the dialogue with China as our largest investor. It is in our advantage to use this good relationship in bringing economical benefits to both countries.”