PRESIDENT John Magufuli has strongly challenged the idea of establishing new administrative areas in the country, saying the focus now should be on directing financial resources towards development projects and the provision of social services. President Magufuli made the remarks in Tunduru District in Ruvuma Region yesterday, while launching a 193-km road from Namtumbo-Kilimasera to Matemanga-Tunduru. His reaction came after Tunduru North MP Ramo Makani asked for upgrading of Tunduru District Council to speed up development. He said the establishment of new administrative areas would only increase operational costs, he said would hinder the implementation of development projects and provision of social services, which were most needed than anything else. “Upgrading Tunduru District to the regional status will not do you any good as it is not a priority, while you still need electricity, health facilities and water supply instead of using funds for constructing offices. Let us use the money for development projects,” he said. The President noted that the crucial thing in development was the provision of better social services that would build stronger communities and not adding new administrative areas that would not benefit the people.President Magufuli also directed Minister for Water, Prof Makame Mbarawa, to come up with better ways of utilising rivers in supplying water to communities, which for a long time had no access to clean water. “According to the Ministry of Finance and Planning’s assessment many water projects in the country are incomplete and some do not even exist. We use a lot of funds, but we don’t see the impact on those projects…Professor, I want you to have a meeting with your water engineers in your ministry and start putting theories into practice,” he stressed. He further urged the minister to supervise well all water projects in the country as the government had been disbursing funds for such projects, but most of them had not been spent as intended. The President is in the region for a six-day tour during which he is expected to launch projects worth more than 500bn/-. President Magufuli also gave 200m/- to be used for the rehabilitation of Tunduru District Hospital. Earlier, Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Isack Kamwelwe said the government was determined to improve the economy in southern Tanzania by constructing key infrastructure. Mr Kamwelwe said 173.3bn/- was spent on the project and implemented by Tanzania in collaboration with development partners such as the African Development Bank (AFDB) that funded 63.32 per cent and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)’s financial support accounted for 23.24 per cent. “This road is crucial for the country’s development as it links us with neighbouring countries of Malawi and Msumbiji as well as it will be used to transport different cash crops, iron and coal,” he said. Japanese Ambassador to Tanzania Shinichi Goto said the government of Japan had provided 157bn/- loan assistance for the construction of the road. “Japan has been in the forefront in supporting Tanzania in areas such as infrastructure and capacity building in line with the fifth phase government’s policy of industrialisation,” said Mr Goto. AFDB country representative Alex Mubiru said the road connected people from the southern part of Tanzania with other regions that would facilitate smooth transportation of goods and services. “When AfDB was launched in 1964, its founders had a vision of one African continent that has progressed economically and built resilient infrastructure, promoted inclusive and sustainable industrialisation,” he said. Ruvuma Acting Regional Commissioner Godfrey Zambi said the big challenge they had was wild animals that had been attacking humans, which created fear. “We have been working with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, but I think more staff members are needed to help us contain the situation,” said Mr Zambi.