ADVENT Construction becomes the first Tanzanian construction company to be chosen and featured as one of the 60 companies to inspire Africa by the London Stock Exchange. The firm was picked out of 4000 companies initially identified within the official publication of the exchange. Advent Construction Managing Director Dhruv Jog said that the fact that Advent is the only East African construction company to be featured on this exceptionally prestigious list is a matter of great pride. “It is with great honor that we receive such an exceptional recognition representing our country, industry and of course our thriving continent on such an internationally respected platform as the London Stock Exchange,” said Mr Jog in a statement. He added that the firm hopes to use this platform to catalyze its international growth and continued Joint Venture relationships with some of the world’s largest construction groups. “We are excited to be making this transition from local and regional to now being world renowned with you as our trusted stakeholder,” he said. Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Simbeye said: “It has been TPSF’s dream to see Tanzanian companies flourishing, Advent has made us proud and we congratulate the company for that.” He said proper implementation of this policy would ensure that local contractors learn and grow with each project that awarded in the country. “Increasing our capacity and our experience will help ensure that one day we are not only independent of the need for any international contractors except but also choose who to invite,” he said. TPSF believes that a financial margin of preference of 15 per cent for local contractors over foreign contractors, even those in JV with locals is very important. “After implementation of the mandatory Joint Venture requirement, we will grow capacity to a point where local contractors can compete with foreign companies, without getting into Joint Venture with them,” he said. He added that the margin of preference should also include local contractors when entering a JV agreement. The London Stock Exchange report is a celebration of Africa’s most dynamic growth businesses and as came at a right time where local construction companies want a share of large contracts currently primarily awarded to foreign contractors. In Tanzania, the construction industry is expanding significantly as compared to few years back. The pace of growth of the construction sector in 2018 was 14.1 per cent and stakeholders are optimistic that possibilities of growing even further are high as Tanzania is envisaging being a middle income economy come 2025, hence a need for more housing and infrastructure development. TPSF believes that mandatory Joint Ventures for any foreign company wishing to be awarded a contract in the country is a must if the country wants to boost its local construction sector. Local contractors should be mandated to have a minimum of 30 per cent share in the JV or subcontract value. To be included in the list, companies need to be privately held, and show an excellent rate of growth and potential to power African development, via their financial and compliance performance. The analysis and audit is conducted absolutely independently by the London Stock Exchange group and was produced in partnership with African Development Bank Group, CDC Group, PWC and Asoko Insight.