THE government had disbursed 421bn/-to financial institutions through the Mortgage Finance Act of 2008, which aims at improving the lives of the citizens, especially for them to acquire houses. Without going into details, that was recently said in Arusha by the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi, while calling upon financial institutions to help the government to address shortage of citizens’ houses in the country. “I would like to call upon you, NMB bank and others to join forces with the National Housing Corporation (NHC), to construct affordable houses for Tanzanians. The process of acquiring a building plot and a building permit takes very long and could at times be a frustrating one. “It is my hope that by you (NMB bank), chipping in, the system will help address the nightmare of many Tanzanians, who have to grapple with the dream of owning their houses,” he said in an event dubbed ‘Nyumba Day Expo’ organized by the institution. He thanked the bank for the event, terming it timely that creates public awareness on such institutions’ mortgages in the country. “What the government has given to financial institutions is 300 times more than what NMB has allocated for mortgage, and this has to be reflected on the kind of houses that will be owned by Tanzanians,” hinted the minister. He said the State alone could not afford to provide enough houses to its nationals, especially in the urban populations, a loophole that had seen the emergence of unplanned settlements and squatters. On his side, NMB’s Business Head Retail, Salie Mlay, told the minister that the bank had in two years given 17bn/-as loans to 139 clients all over the country. He further said that the institution would liaise with NHC to ensure that Arusha residents acquired low cost houses at Safari City located in Mateves, a suburb in the city. Mr Mlay pointed out that the bank’s mortgage finance awareness was realized after their survey indicated that urban areas were expanding and therefore, should keep pace with people in need of settlements. “When it (Nyumba Day’ Expo), was launched in 2017, the fourth to be held in Arusha, NMB became the first bank to offer lower rates mortgage in comparison to other mortgage facilities in the market, with the minimum amount being 10m/- and the maximum 700m/-,” he added. “The aim was to offer solutions to challenges facing Tanzanians in building their houses. In Tanzania, buildings belonging to individuals are often gradually constructed through savings. This loan, which brings together the entire sum, should be a dream to own a home. Repayment period of the entire loan is pegged at 15 years but should a client opt for early repayment, then he or she can do so after six months, ” hinted the Business Head Retail.