PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein has said sharing Zanzibar’s history on tourism would be another way of promoting the industry particularly its ‘Domestic Tourism,’ and the ‘Tourism for All’ as a concept. “People may be interested to learn about the history, current position, and future plans for tourism in relation to our country’s economic growth,” said Dr Shein here, while in a meeting with Executives and Senior Officers from the Ministry of Information, Tourism, and Antiquities. He further said that Zanzibar has been recording success in developing its tourism, but still knowing about its past history would be something of interest to both local and foreign tourists. At the meeting also attended by the Second Vice President Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, the President recalled that the country under then late President Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi opted to invest and develop tourism and food spices after a drop in ‘value’ of Cloves. “Since then, tourism industry has been developing, and contributing heavily in the country’s economy. Improved infrastructure, increasing attraction sites, and adverts locally and abroad, have boosted the industry,” added Dr Shein, hinting further that Zanzibar is now a famous tourism destination that attracts tourists from different parts of the world. He said that the ‘Zanzibar Tourism Act No 6 of 2009 and its amendment Act number 7 of 2012’ paved ways for the improvement of the industry, including promoting ‘tourism for all’. “I urged the Tourism Commission and its Commissioners to make the best use of the law, and its regulations to boost tourism,” said the President. On his part, Ambassador Iddi said at the meeting held at the State House that tourism still remains the important sector in economic development of the Island, adding that the public as well as the Executives here should understand and enhance the industry. Zanzibar has also surpassed its target to have 500,000 record of tourists by 2020. He commended President Shein for the recorded success in tourism, which is the implementation of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) 2015/2020 manifesto, adding that the gains should be maintained because it relates to the income of the majority people in the Isles.