SIMBA SC Vice Captain Mohammed Hussein said the jam packed Mainland Premier League fixtures they have make the competition difficult but vowed to fight to the end. Simba take on league debutants Alliance FC today at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza aiming to shrug off the disappointing 2-1 defeat they suffered on Saturday at the hands of Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium. The slump prevented Simba from reaching 63 points which could have seen them trailing second placed Azam FC with only 3 points. Azam suffered a 1-0 loss away to Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium last week. It will be Simba’s 25th match of the season as they expect to play series of back to back league encounters to catch up with the number of games played by their colleagues at the top of the table who have 32 outings so far. According to the available fixture, after Alliance, Simba will remain in Mwanza to play KMC on Friday before confronting Biashara United in Shinyanga on Sunday. Immediately after facing Biashara United, the reigning champions will then fly to Mbeya Region for two fixtures against Tanzania Prisons on May 1st and Mbeya City on May 3rd. Here, it means Simba will play five matches in 11 days with possible 15 points to pocket from their upcoming games starting with today’s encounter in Mwanza. On the other hand, Alliance who sit on 15th place with 37 points will be keen to claim maximum three points from the clash to climb up the ladder a bit and guarantee themselves premier league slot next season. From the position they lately occupy, it is not completely safe for Alliance as far as relegation is concerned hence they also need to win matches and obtain points. Speaking over the weekend ahead of today’s battle, Hussein said the congested fixture is very tough for them but insisted that they will try everything possible to get positive results since they have no other competition apart from the top flight league. “W e will be playing back to back games with limited resting time but we have no other option other than to do the job,” Hussein said. He added that they won 11 matches prior to the 2-1 loss from Kagera Sugar as such, they have already sorted out the problems which emerged in Bukoba hence their fans countrywide should be ready to start receiving good news from their next games. On his part, Alliance FC Chairman Y usuph Budodi said the pre-match drilling his side underwent in Kenya gives them hopes to derail Simba today. “The team has landed back home safely this morning (Sunday) from Kenya ready to host Simba and morale among players is great with each looking forward to the tie,” Budodi said. So far, about seven teams are fighting for the league’s survival next season whereby Mwadui FC, Alliance and Mbao each has 37 points to occupy position 14th, 15th and 16th respectively hence any drop of points will be detrimental to them. Also, Kagera Sugar and Ruvu Shooting each has 36 points to sit on 17t h and 18th slots while Biashara United are placed 19th position with 34 points. Bottom placed African Lyon are practically already relegated as they have 22 points, 12 points behind Biashara United.