A DELEGATION of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights (AfCHPR) will make a one-week working visit to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Court of Justice and meet key Nigerian officials from 29th April in Abuja. The judges, led by its President, Justice Sylvain Oré, in the reciprocal visit follows the inaugural visit by the ECOWAS Court of Justice to the Arusha-based Court in February last year, during which a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed. The President of the African Court, Hon. Justice Sylvain Oré, said here on Wednesday that the visit would help to enhance judicial co-operation and share experiences between the two courts. He added that the visit is part of the Court's ongoing efforts to strengthen ties with regional courts on the continent. A similar MoU was signed by the African Court with the East African Courtof Justice (EACJ) last month here in Arusha. The African Court delegation that includes three judges and senior registry staff is expected to pay a courtesy call on the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mr Muhammadu Buhari and meet key officials in the ministries of Foreign Affairs and Justice. They will also visit the Nigerian Human Rights Commission, the Nigerian Bar Association and meet None Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). The AfCHPR was established by virtue of Article 1 of the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights on the Establishment of an African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights, to complement the protective mandate of the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, with a view to enhancing the protection of human rights on the Continent. The ECOWAS Court of Justice is an organ of ECOWAS, a regional integration community of 15 member States in West Africa. Although ECOWAS was founded in 1975 by the Treaty of Lagos, the Court of Justice was not created until the adoption of the Protocol on the Community Court of Justice in 1991. Additionally, the ECOWAS Revised Treaty of 1993 established the Court of Justice as an institution of ECOWAS. The Protocol was amended twice; once in 2005 and again in 2006. The 2005 Supplementary Protocol expanded the Court's jurisdiction to include human rights claims by individuals.