AS Tanzanians yesterday commemorated the 55th anniversary of the Union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar, President John Magufuli, who is also the Commander-in-Chief of armed forces, reduced sentences of 3,530 inmates by quarter as 722 of them were released. According to a statement released yesterday by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Maj- Gen Jacob Kingu, 2,808 inmates will serve the remaining part of their sentences before they too are released. The statement says the inmates, who have benefited from the presidential pardon and a reduction in sentences include those sentenced before March 15, this year, HIV/Aids and TB patients, as well as those with cancer at a terminal stage. However, their health status should be verified by a panel of medical doctors under the supervision of regional or district medical officers. Inmates aged 70 and above and those with physical and mental disabilities have also benefitted from thepresidential pardon after medical doctors verify their health status before their release. The President also pardoned the inmates, who started serving their sentences while pregnant, as well as breastfeeding mothers. However, the presidential pardon does not involve those convicted of capital offences, attempted murder and those serving life sentences. Other inmates not covered in the presidential pardon are those, whose conviction is related to illegal drugs, corruption, robbery with violence, armed robbery and attempted armed robbery. The statement further says that, the President did not pardon inmates jailed for possessing fire arms, ammunitions and explosives. Inmates convicted of rape, sodomy, violence against children, impregnating schoolgirls and those under the Prisons Extra Mural Penal Employment Regulation are similarly not involved in the amnesty. Others are the prisoners convicted of economic sabotage, human trafficking, poaching, abuse of office, as well as those convicted of habitual offences. The statement further says it is the government’s expectation that all released inmates will collaborate with the community in building the nation and avoid committing offences that will lead them to go back to prison. Last year, 585 inmates were released out of 3,319 those, who benefited from the presidential pardon as the nation commemorated the 54th anniversary of the Union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar. The government yesterday postponed the national event to mark the 55th anniversary, but asked members of public to enjoy the one-day holiday. According to a statement issued by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on Thursday, 988.9m/- set aside for the event will be re-allocated to other public uses.