…Yanga, Ndanda battle today HEAVY rains canceled out the Mainland Premier League match between Simba and JKT Tanzania, scheduled for yesterday at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. The downpour that started at around 2pm and lasted for at least an hour, left Jamhuri Stadium pitch soaked and unfriendly to host the match. The Msimbazi Street giants have picked Jamhuri Stadium as their home venue at this point where the National Stadium, Uhuru Stadium and Azam Complex all of Dar es Salaam, have been closed in preparations to host the Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals set to kick off on April 14th to 28th this year. According to the Secretary General of the Morogoro Region Football Association (MRFA), Charles Mwakambaya, the match will now be played on a date to be announced by the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB). “It was completely unplayable pitch and according to regulations, the match had to be postponed, after the officials inspected the pitch condition and satisfied themselves beyond the reasonable doubt that the match could not go ahead,” he said. Mwakambaya said, according to the league’s regulations, the match was to be replayed today morning at the same venue. However, he said according to the Confederation of African Football (CAF) regulations, Simba are not supposed to play today because they will be engaged in CAF Champions League quarterfinal match against Congolese side TP Mazembe at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday . CAF regulations states that a team engaged in continental tournament should get 72-hour time to recover before playing any international game. Hundreds of fans had purchased tickets to witness the match and Mwakambaya assured them that the relevant authorizes will find the proper way to handle the matter. Both teams had arrived in the venue ready for the match and waited patiently as officials inspected the venue. Simba are still playing catch up with front runners— Young Africans, who sits top of the table with 67 points from 28 matches and second, placed Azam FC on 62 points from 29 matches following their 2-0 victory over Kagera Sugar at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza on Tuesday. Patrick Aussems charges are third on the log with 57 points from 22 matches, while JKT Tanzania, who are battling relegation are placed 13th of the log with 36 points from 31 matches. Yanga will be in league action today away at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara against host, Ndanda FC. Yanga were due to arrive in Mtwara yesterday ready to face Ndanda and victory is vital to Mwinyi Zahera charges as they need to extend their lead and move closer to the title. The club’s Information Officer, Dismas Ten, said in a statement on Tuesday that Yanga will continue to miss the service of skipper, Ibrahim Ajib, who is still nursing injury. However, Juma Abdul, who missed several games due to injury, will be back in contention in starting line up to boost the defence. Mwinyi Zahera side, which lost 1-0 in their last league outing against Iringa’s Lipuli FC, will be looking to regain their winning form, to boost their title race campaign.