DETERMINED to intensify security of people and their properties, the government yesterday announced over 5,000 jobs for police, prison and immigration as well as fire and rescue brigade. The new jobs will go hand in hand with commissioning of police officers, inspectors and professional training for police officers both within and outside the country, Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola told the National Assembly here. Mr Lugola gave the good news while tabling his ministry’s 921bn/- budget estimates for the 2019/20 fiscal year. He told the august house that the ministry will tightly vet all applicants for the announced posts to ensure recruitment of only individuals with the needed qualities and high sense of discipline. Mr Lugola said of the employment slot, the police have to recruit 3,725 officers in 2019/20 financial year as compared to 812 officers hired during the 2018/19 fiscal year. The Tanzania Prisons will have to recruit 685 new officers and enroll others for both short and long term trainings. According to the minister, the trainings will focus on performance improvement, close supervision of public resources and proper documentation of public documents for more efficiency and accountability. He said the Tanzania Prisons Service has intensified inspections against all items that are not allowed in prisons. “We have installed electronic gadgets to ensure this system works properly… the gadgets have been installed at Ukonga, Keko and Segerea prisons in Dar es Salaam region,” said Mr Lugola. He said 50m/- have been set aside to complete the work in Dar es Salaam prisons before going for another phase, which will involve prisons in Arusha and Isanga in Dodoma. As of March this year, there were 38,501 remandees and prisoners countrywide, said the minister, admitting that there is high congestion, especially in prisons in city areas. For Fire and Rescue, Mr Lugola said the force has prepared a five-year development plan, which looks at how best the force will work at the required efficiency. The plan includes purchase of state-of-the-art equipment to meet the market demand, with 205.6bn/- spent during the five-year period. Mr Lugola added that in dealing with human resource challenges, the fire and rescue force will employ 500 officers and promote 1,343 others. He said the immigration department issued 73,416 electronic passports between July 2018 and March 2019, adding that 94 people were awarded Tanzanian citizenship during the period under review. The department will in the 2019/20 fiscal year conduct capacity building to its personnel and is looking forward to recruit 500 new officers.