NATIONAL women football team ‘Twiga Stars’ launched their 2020 Olympic qualifiers on a wrong foot after being held to a frustrating 2-2 draw by the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) yesterday. Twiga Stars dominated the first leg of qualifiers that was staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam but they had to come from behind twice to earn a draw. Mariane Kajaji put DR Congo ahead in the first half but Donisia Daniel pulled immediately after the break. Twiga were pegged back again, when Grace Balango netted the second for DR Congo but Asha Rashid spared the home team with a late equaliser. Twiga Stars must now win in the second leg set for next Tuesday away at the Complexe Omnisports stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa, DR Congo. A draw of more than three goals will see them through but a defeat or a 1-1 draw will see them out of the race. In the yesterday’s encounter, Bakari Shime charges struggled to make impact in the final third. Shime also opted to bench experienced goalkeeper; Fatuma Omary for less experienced Naijat Abas, who was at fault in both goals scored by DR Congo. Twiga were on a back foot just after 11 minutes after DRC took the lead through Kajaji’s long range strike that easily beat goalkeeper, Naijat. The hosts fired back and won a penalty in the 21st minute, after skipper Asha Rashid was fouled in the box. Fatma Khatibu stepped up but goalkeeper, Fideline Mudimbi dived the right way and parried her shot away. Twiga Stars mounted pressure as they kept knocking the visitor’s door but missed killer instincts upfront with Mwanahamis Omary, Asha Rashid, Stumai Abdallah and Dionisia Daniel wasting several scoring chances. In the 45th minute, Asha Rashid missed from a sitter, firing wide with only keeper to beat. Immediately after the break, Twiga Stars pulled level in the 46th minute, through Dionisia Daniel who connected home Happiness Hezron’s cross. However, in the 53rd minute Twiga Stars conceded the second goal. It was a bit silly mistake by goalkeeper, who failed to collect an otherwise easy catch only to allow the scorer to pounce on a drop ball and power home. In the 78th minute, Asha Rashid headed in an equaliser off a perfectly weighed in cross from impressive Dionisia Daniel. Winner of the match between Twiga Stars and DR Congo will progress into the second round of the qualifiers and face Equatorial Guinea. However, Equatorial Guinea have been banned by FIFA and are not eligible to compete in Olympics, meaning winner of the Twiga versus DRC tie will likely get a bye to the third round. In 2017, FIFA expelled Equatorial Guinea from the 2019 Women’s World Cup for using fake documents and selecting at least 10 ineligible players in its Olympic team. In a previous related case, FIFA banned Equatorial Guinea’s women from the 2020 Olympic qualifying programme. That decision related to a Brazilborn player who had two passports and two birth certificates with personal details that did not match. The Tokyo Olympic Games are scheduled to begin from July 24th to August 9th next year.