SEVEN people appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court yesterday, charged with several counts of money laundering, publishing false messages and impersonation. Before the Dar es Salaam court, the accused—Saada Uledi, Maftaha Shaban, Heshima Ally, Shamba Baila, Fadhil Mahenge, Obadia Kwitega and Stella Ommary—were arraigned before four magistrates in different court chambers. In some cases, the accused were not allowed to enter plea to the charges because the counts against them fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The accused were only allowed to enter plea on the charge of providing online content without licence. The prosecution’s team, led by State AttorneysBatilda Mushi and Constantine Kakula, informed the court that investigations into the matter were incomplete. Only Stella secured bail as she was not involved in the money laundering charge, which is not bailable offence preferred against others. The prosecution told Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde that between January 2017 and March 2019 in Dar es Salaam and other places in Tanzania, Saada, Shaban, Ally and Baila conspired to commit an offence of publishing false information on Facebook account. Within the same period and places, the accused published information on Facebook account registered under the name of Janeth Magufuli, purporting to show that the wife of President John Magufuli has formed a credit facility institution, providing loans to individuals. According to the prosecution, the institution has a lot of conditions demanding those seeking loans to deposit money as security. It is alleged that the accused committed the offence, knowing that the information was false and intended to deceit the public. Between March 2 and 8, 2019 in Dar es Salaam and other places in Tanzania, being operators of the Facebook account, by false pretenses and with intent to defraud, all the accused obtained through mobile money transfer 4,487,000/- from Paul Kunambi, as security for loan issued by the First Lady. The four accused were also charged with money laundering, with the prosecution alleging that within the same period and places, they acquired the 4.5m/- knowing or ought to have known that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Wanjah Hamza, the prosecution charged Mahenge alone with five counts of publication of false information, initiation and transmission of unsolicited messages, obtaining money by false pretenses and money laundering. The court heard that between January 2017 and March 2019 in Dar es Salaam, Rukwa, Songwe and other places within Tanzania, the accused published information in the form of short messages that “tuma pesa kwenye namba hii,” knowing that it was false and intended to mislead the public. It is alleged that within the same period and places, the accused initiated and transmitted the unsolicited messages to obtain money by sending them to various persons, directing them to send money to him via mobile money transfer registered under his 629 cards from different service providers. Within the same period and places in Tanzania, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, the accused obtained through mobile money transfer through the SIM cards registered in his name a total of 123m/- from different people. On money laundering, the court was told that within the same period and places, Mahenge acquired the 123m/- while knowing that the money was proceed of the predicate offence of obtaining money by false pretences. The prosecution alleged before Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile that between January 29, 2017 and March 29, 2019 at various places within Dar es Salaam, through their online Television known as Habari Mpya TV, Kwitega and Stella provided online content without licence issued by Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority.