THE Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) has vowed to continue maintaining peace across the country and warned those trying to destabilise it through making inflammatory statements. Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), Gen Venance Mabeyo, said TPDF and other security and defence organs in the country were ready to protect the nation, citizens and their properties. The CDF made the assurance yesterday during the launch of new government offices in Mtumba Government City, Dodoma. “At all times we are in the frontline to corporate with colleagues in dealing with any threats arising within the country. As of recent we are following up on inflammatory statements,” Gen Mabeyo said. He noted that TPDF, under the instructions from the Ministry for Defence and National Service, was ready at all times to discharge its duties professionally, efficiently and with integrity. “At any time, TPDF is ready and prepared to protect the country. The boarders are secured and protected and there are no conflicts,” noted Gen Mabeyo. “Although, conflicts happening in neighbouring countries may influence and destabilise our country, we are prepared to protect our nation,” he assured. On construction work assigned to TPDF, he said the work commenced in November last year, where they had to construct houses in Chamwino and set up a wall surrounding the State House. He also said they were instructed to construct 41 houses to accommodate State House staff and the buildings were completed by March 1, this year. “You handed to us 5bn/- for the construction of 41 houses. Through the use of our manpower we have saved over 2bn/- ,” he said. “The third area was to construct government offices in Mtumba Ward we have participated in setting up 10 buildings for 10 ministries.” This has been achieved with the involvement of TPDF, which constructed buildings for six ministries. He explained that Suma JKT had constructed the Ministry of Defence and National Service, the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs, the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. While Mzinga Corporation constructed buildings for the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports and the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled). He also mentioned officers who took part in the construction as private and warrant officers… headed by Col Charles Mbuge with the help of 26 supervisors. “The youth throughout the entire time have been patient and have worked hard, efficiently and with integrity,” he commended. He added that: “These youths have become an important pillar in the implementation of various projects that we were instructed to accomplish.” “This completion indicates that TPDF has capable professionals, who work patriotically, efficiently and with integrity and discharge their duties with diligence,” he stated. Meanwhile, Dodoma Regional Commissioner (RC), Dr Binilith Mahenge, has said the event has set a history in the country, marking a new Dodoma. “The decision of shifting the government to its capital city was first made in 1975 and this has finally been fulfilled in the fifth phase government by you when you announced the shift in 2016 and today we see the outcome of the decision you made.” Dodoma is now the capital city as of recently we have witnessed the launch of Chinese Embassy, Germany and the UN have offices in the capital city. “You have set a history,” he said as he welcomed people to live and invest in the capital city. On the other hand, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled) Jenista Mhagama said the decision would be a catalyst for development in the Central Zone. “The decision will expand social services in the Central Zone and in the country in general.” “In the beginning there were doubts if the government would be able to shift, but under your leadership and cooperation of all departments and ministries, now Dodoma is the capital city and all government services can easily be accessed in the region.” All social services, including the sewage system, availability of clean and safe water, schools, hospitals, roads and electricity are now present.