PRIME Minister (PM) Kassim Majaliwa has called upon Tanzanians to maintain the values and principles of leadership ethics, patriotism, peace and unity that the founding father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere left behind. Speaking during a symposium to commemorate Mwalimu Nyerere’s birthday anniversary at Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Academy in Dar es Salaam on Thursday, the PM said proper implementation of development projects in the country, upholding national unity, peace and harmony was the proper way of living Mwalimu Nyerere’s legacy. “We must all maintain peace and unity as Mwalimu Nyerere is remembered for his outstanding leadership, unity, peace and tranquillity that we all enjoy even today,” he noted. Twenty years ago the country lost its founding leader, renowned Pan-Africanist, acknowledged world statesman, scholar and author in his own right, who died at St Thomas Hospital, London, on October 14, 1999. Mr Majaliwa said we should maintain peace and unity for future generations to acknowledge them as the main pillars of the nation. Mwalimu Nyerere was born on April 13, 1922 in Butiama, Mara Region. “As we mark his 97th birthday, we should equally consider what he stood for and among them is the leadership code of conduct. Our founding father believed in self-reliance, which President John Magufuli is currently promoting,” said Mr Majaliwa. The premier urged high government leaders in the country to take part in leadership and ethics training programmes run at the academy specially designed for them as most of them have been shunning away from such training. On upgrading the academy, he issued directives to Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, and the management to work on that especially by reviewing the curriculum for it to suit that of the university. Presenting his paper on the contribution of the Arusha Declaration to development, Mwalimu Nyerere Foundation Executive Director Joseph Butiku said the declaration introduced the country to the world through the policy of socialism and self-reliance. “This is the objective of socialism in Tanzania to build a society in which all members have equal rights and opportunities in which all can live in peace with their neighbours without suffering or injustice, being exploited or exploiting and in which all have gradually increased the best level of material welfare,” Mr Butiku said as he quoted the declaration.