CRDB Bank has recommended a dividend increase by 60 per cent per share to be endorsed by the annual general meeting mid next month. The proposal is an increase from 5/- paid in 2017 to 8/- for last year after posting a net profit increase by 78 per cent. The bank said in a statement yesterday said that subject to approval by the AGM the share will trade cum-dividend from last Friday and membership register close on the second Friday of next month. CRDB Managing Director, Abdulmajid Nsekela promised a handsome dividend last week when presenting the bank’s good financial performance. “The bank’s future looks bright…ve ry promising,” Mr Nsekela told journalists. He said they expecting to post another good performance in this year’s first quarter to give direction of the rest of the quarters. “The first quarter results are very promising so is the future of the bank. We’ll post good results,” Mr Nsekela said. Last year, CRDB posted a net profit increase by 78 per cent to 64bn/- against 36bn/- of 2017. The bank deposits also rose by 8.0 per cent to 4.7bn/- from 4.3bn/-. However, Zan Securities Chief Executive Officer, Raphael Masumbuko said the market need time to reach on the dividend hike information. “It will take some time, all investors to reach on this price sensitive information,” Mr Masumbuko told the Daily News yesterday. According to Orbit Securities weekly market synopsis, CRDB maintained the top mover spot accounting for 68.2 per cent of the total equity turnover generated during the week. The dividend announcement may push up the bank share price, which have been trading at the lowest level ever at 125/- last Friday from 150/- of January. “Supporting the Government plans to increase Financial Inclusion in Tanzania has been always one of our strategic objectives,” said Ladislaus Karlo, Territory Manager for Tigo South Zone. “More than 7 million customers using our Tigo Pesa services now have more options to make quick, easy and secure payments to over 300 civil ministries, government agencies and other public utilities through Tigo Pesa USSD, Tigo Pesa App or Q R code,” Tigo’s Head of MFS Business To Business, Ally Maswanya added.