YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera said his side still lacks speedy players who can quickly make counterattacks in tense matches. Yanga was the last team to enter into the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) semifinals after a 4-3 post-match victory against favourites Alliance FC at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza over the weekend. Their triumph has booked a date with Lipuli FC in the semifinal clash to be held at Samora Stadium in Iringa while Azam will host KMC in another epic last four duel. Herritier Makambo scored probably the best goal so far in ASFC in the 38th minute of the first half which was levelled later in the 63rd minute by Joseph James to enable the encounter be decided through spot kicks. It was the only match in the concluded last eight to be judged via penalties and Yanga’s goalkeeper Klaus K i n d o k i was hero after punching two shots to make headlines on the day as t h e third kick for Alliance missed the target. The victory, on the other hand revamped Yanga’s hopes of winning two titles which include the Mainland Premier League and ASFC. On target for Yanga were Paul Godfrey, Thabani Kamusoko, Haruna Moshi and Deus Kaseke while Kelvin Yondani and Mrisho Ngasa missed theirs. Alliance netted theirs through Joseph James, Godfrey Luseke and Samir Vincent whereas Martin Kigi, Ambundo and Juma wasted theirs. Speaking after the match, Zahera said the only problem he has in his team is lack of speed players who can easily fit in his football philosophy. “Ever since we began this campaign, I have been repeatedly saying that I do not have players who are fast enough in making counterattacks especially when playing against teams like Alliance,” Zahera said. He said Alliance had advantage over them because they have players who can quickly counterattack and defend at the same time saying his side is deprived such qualities. He added that Alliance approached the game with revenge mentality as they wanted not to succumb to another defeat after losing 1-0 in the top flight league lately. “If I had speedy players, it is very easy to overcome them with more than three goals but that is still a challenge in my team,” said him. On his part, Alliance Head Coach, Malale Hamsin said they had to blame themselves for missing many opportunities during the game. “Penalties have no clue meaning that any side which can play their cards well in the shootouts, they can emerge winners,” Hamsin said. He also said equalizing against Yanga on the day was a big achievement for them.