KILIMANJARO International Airport (KIA) is now proud of handling big and more planes at a go, with a capacity to serve over 1,200,000 passengers per annum in minimized time while clearing and inspecting them on arrivals and departures. That was unveiled to the ‘ Daily News’ yesterday by Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company (KADCO) Acting Managing Director, Engineer Christopher Mukoma after the major renovation of the airport at the international arrivals, including 36 entry inspection points. Engineer Mukoma said that the airport now has surpassed many others in the continent, adding further that that has been realised by the introduction of several numbers of Clearing Desks that is necessary as the first impression to those visiting the country. “The renovation was huge and now we see how important it was, especially as the airport is the gateway to tourism. It is bad if international arrivals are detained for long time at the airport, just because of a small number of Immigration Officers to attend them,” said Eng Mukoma. Before renovation, KIA had a capacity to serve 500,000 passengers per year, where the government in turn decided to pump in funds to renovate it, because it is strategically placed to welcome tourists in the new heights to reviving the once ailing Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). “KIA is now on Category C, with ability to accommodate 11 big aircrafts landing at ago,” further hinting that any kind of plane can now use the airport based on great improvement after face-lifting and putting it on the same level with other overseas airports. “The first impression matters; when visitors come to the country, the first place they land on is at the airport…and hence, they would be happy with good environment, and reception as well as fast clearance in signing and inspection of their paperwork. We are at a high level now,” added the engineer. The MD said they have always trained their staff on better ways to handle visitors, adding that he was proud to see many airlines now landing there unlike the previous times, with some even thrice a day. “With many planes touching down and departing with numerous visitors, specifically tourists from all parts of the world, we are competent to handle them.