THE government is set to expunge from its list beneficiaries of the Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN) that have already graduated from the initiative. Addressing delegates of a three day international transfer project workshop here yesterday, Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office, Public Service and Good Governance, Dr Mary Mwanjelwa revealed that the government will now be using sophisticated means such as the Global Positioning System (GPS) in ascertaining which households deserve cash transfers. “We are striving to identify only those who truly deserve such transfers to avoid paying those who have already benefitted from the programme,” emphasized Dr Mwanjelwa while opening the international conference that features participants from 25 countries. Such a move, according to the deputy minister will address concerns that some beneficiaries were undeservedly still pocketing money through the programme. According to the deputy minister, Tanzania had made great strides in supporting poor households since the inception of the PSSN programme. She disclosed that the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) was on target of reaching out to 70 per cent of Tanzanians, both in the mainland and the isles, through the PSSN programme. In the same vein, Dr Mwanjelwa castigated district councils that were responsible for misusing regular money payments that were meant for poor households, hence derailing PSSN’s intention. “The money is only meant for poor households and not for other engagements or projects,” maintained the Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office, Public Service and Good Governance. TASAF’s Executive Director, Ladislaus Mwamanga assured the deputy minister that his office was exploring ways of removing from its list names of beneficiaries that had already graduated from the PSSN initiative. In the last 15 years, the government through TASAF has supported the poor communities and households in building capacities at grass root level to enable them manage the transformation initiatives in improving social services for sustained development. The Transfer Project is a multi-country cash transfer research initiative. Established in 2008, the project in collaboration between UNICEF Innocenti, FAO, University of North Carolina, UNICEF Regional and Country Offices, national governments and local research partners. The Transfer Project is a thought leader on cash transfers in Africa. It goes beyond measuring typical economic outcomes to find out if and how cash transfers impact other aspects of people’s lives.