NEW kings of the Total U17 Africa Cup of Nations will be crowned today evening when Cameroon and Guinea meet in the decisive match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Cameroon goes into the game as favorites having beaten Guinea 2-0 earlier in a Group B opening fixture at Chamazi Stadium, leaving Guinea with a lot to do to seek their revenge in the final. The Junior Sylis of Guinea reached their first final ever after beating Nigeria 10-9 on penalties, whilst ten-man Cameroon snatched a 4-3 victory on penalties against Angola to go through their second final. Cameroon had won the title once in 2003. The interesting thing about the final is that, Guinea has lost only once in this tournament and it was against their fellow finalists, Cameroon. Guinea trainer, Mohamed Camera insisted that, it is their chance to revenge and they have worked hard to make sure they take the trophy back home. “It doesn’t matter how many times we will wait for it, but our desire is to take our revenge on Cameroon. We lost to them in the opening game but this time we are not afraid, we want to show our superiority,” he said. “As a young coach, I am really emotionally involved with this game. It is amazing to be in the final. My boys are happy to achieve this and will fight to be champions,” he added. Guinea captain, Bah Algassime said; “We are very happy to be in the final. We are focused and concentrated on the game. We appreciate the big support we are getting out there and we are going to look for a win to show our gratitude to the fans.” On the other hand, Cameroon coach, Thomas Libiih has said his ambition is to win the trophy and that will happen if they take the game serious and fight hard to win. Les Lionceaux will be missing the services of Fabrice Ndzie, who was sent off in the semis clash with Angola. “I won several trophies as a player so this will not be a big surprise for me. However what we need to know is that every coach has ambition to win trophies and we have worked hard for it. We wish to have wonderful moment tomorrow and beat Guinea to lift the trophy,” he said. Cameroon midfielder, Nassourou Ben Hamed said; “This is the equal chance game but we are not going to take our opponents lite. Our motivation and desire is to win this trophy and we are ready for that. We know that we are going to achieve our motive of becom-