PRESIDENT John Magufuli has directed Tanzania Communications and Regulatory Authority (TCRA) to extend the registration of SIM cards until the majority of Tanzanians are issued with national identification cards (IDs) from the National Identification Authority (NIDA). The President issued the directive in Mbeya City at Ruanda Nzovwe grounds yesterday, when he was addressing Mbeya residents during his second tour of the region. He revoked the TCRA ultimatum that sets April 30 as the deadline for using other IDs for SIM card registration. According to the ultimatum, TCRA wants all SIM card registration to be supported by the national ID and the holder’s fingerprints with effect from May 1. He noted that TCRA’s initiative was good and in the right direction as every developed nation in the world was using the system to curb crime using mobile phones, but not all citizens had such IDs. “The initiative should start with citizens, who already possess national IDs, while NIDA continues registering those, who do not have any. There are 55 million Tanzanians, but only about 13-14 million have national IDs and those without them should be given time until December this year to complete SIM card registration.” “If the IDs are not provided to every Tanzanian, then it will be unfair to judge those without them and restricting them from having mobile phones,” he commented. “He insisted that he had not said that people should not register their SIM cards, but those, who did not have them should be given time to have them.” During the commemoration of 55 years of the Union, the President called on residents to spend a few minutes to remember the forefathers, who made it possible. He mentioned four main things that led to the Union, including the geographical proximity of the two nations, close relationship and similar traditions and cultures of the people and the Union being what the founders envisioned. “Joining two independent countries is not easy. There are many nations that tried to do so and failed. For the country that has lasted for 55 years then we must be grateful to God. We are thankful for the founders and the Presidents and government officials, who followed as they continued strengthening the Union as well as Tanzanians, who continue honouring the Union,” he stated as he wished the nation’s happy birthday. “We decided not to celebrate, but I believe that Tanzanians everywhere are reflecting on this important event for our nation.” “President of Zanzibar Ali Mohamed Shein and I will continue protecting the Union with all our energy,” he assured. He also urged Tanzanians to continue cooperating with the government in strengthening the Union through peace and love that would maintain it. On small-scale entrepreneurs, he insisted that they should be left to do their businesses freely. “Do not let yourselves be persuaded and used by businessmen to evade tax. Once you possess an identity card you shouldn’t be charged for anything. I recognise your challenges. I have assigned former Mbeya airport to be your new ground for conducting your businesses.” He asked the regional government to implement new uses of the airport and that the area should be properly prepared for vendors and should have a bus stand, toilet facilities and water supply. “There are laws and regulations in every country. Being a vendor does not mean to create chaos. There must be demarcations where you can conduct your businesses.” He also challenged Mbeya regional officials and the Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment to revive the meat processing factory in Mbeya. “You must create strategic plans to revive the factory even if it is through investors so that it become operational and creates jobs and the government will get revenue in turn. It is impossible to leave all that land idle,” he noted. He explained that during his presidential campaign he promised to work on the challenges the Mbeya community was facing. “We have already reduced almost 80 taxes from agriculture, 7 taxes from pastoralism and 5 taxes from fisheries.” “Since the last financial year the government has directed not to charge tax for transporting produce under one tonne. This is among the 80 taxes that were removed,” he said.