THE President of the Confederation of African Football, Ahmad Ahmad currently in an official tour of Tanzania, has emerged from the Ngorongoro Crater, praising Tanzania’s conservation efforts. Ahmad, who hails from Madagascar, arrived in Arusha on Thursday afternoon, landing at Lake Manyara airstrip amid pounding rains, before being driven to Karatu then on to the Loduare gates, the entrance to the Ngorongoro Conservation Area, where he signed the visitor’s book and given brief information about the country’s leading tourist destination. The Commissioner Conservator at the Ngorongoro Conservation Area, Dr Freddy Manongi said the visit from the CAF delegation was yet another proof that Tanzania is the tourism destination of choice on the African continent, adding that Ahmad will further help to promote the Crater through sports. Ahmad descended into the Crater on Thursday afternoon, as the rain drenched the conservation area. The crater receives around 500,000 visitors in a year. Despite the midday game drive, (game sighting is best done in early morning), the CAF president managed to see all the big fives; Lions, Leopards, Elephants, Buffaloes and the rare Rhinos, not to mention creepy reptiles, large hippos at the Engoitokitok Lake, wildebeests, and of course, the usual group of monkeys that usually welcome visitors at Loduare Gate entrance. After his excursion in the wildlife filled caldera, Ahmad expressed satisfaction on his adventurous experience in Ngorongoro as he departed from the Conservation Area yesterday morning ready to fly to Dar es Salaam city. Once in Dar, Ahmad was supposed to address a press conference in the city. Four years ago, veteran Spanish footballers, the Real Madrid Legends also visited both the crater and Maasai settlements in Ngorongoro Conservation Area, promising to promote the UNESCO accredited World Heritage Site in Madrid. International sports, pop and movie stars as well as global leaders have been visiting Tanzania’s Northern Tourism Circuit for years, among them Ophra Winfrey, U2’s Bono, Bill Gates, Bill Clinton and Barrack Obama.