DEPUTY Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism Constantine Kanyasu has warned conservation institutions against harassing villagers living near conservation areas in the country until appropriate decisions are made. The warning comes following complaints from some villagers, including farmers and pastoralists in such areas, claiming that they have been harassed as their livestock have repeatedly been seized once found in national parks. Speaking to Kisondoko villagers, who are among those residing in Mkungunero Game Reserve in Kondoa District, he said the committee of seven ministers had already submitted a report to the President on pastoralists in protected areas. In January this year, President John Magufuli gave a directive to stop planned evictions of pastoralists near protected areas or those who had disputes with conservation authorities. At the same time, Mr Kanyasu warned villagers, who had been invading new conservation areas after the President’s statement. “The ones I am targeting here are those, who have been residing in conservation areas for so long, those who are new, legal measures will be taken against them,” he noted. Mr Kanyasu further said apart from 365 villages that were initially identified, the committee of ministers had observed that there were more than 820 villages within conservation areas and thus urged villagers to stop invading other areas until the President directed otherwise. He also warned game wardens, who were asking for bribes from pastoralists after seizing their livestock so that they could release them.He said whoever found would be held accountable. For his part, Kondoa District Commissioner Sezaria Makota has called on every villager to be a watcher of his fellow villagers, while waiting for the ministerial committee’s latest report. “After the report it is when you will know your destiny whether to remain here or to be evicted, but whichever decision will be made make sure you and your livestock are safe,” he noted. A Kisondoko Village leader, Mr Ismail Said, told the deputy minister that some conservation officers had been asking for bribes, which had been fuelling anger and revenge among villagers. Meanwhile, Mr Kanyasu has insisted that the conservation of natural vegetation and the protection of the environment is a matter of life and death to avoid turning the country into a desert. He lauded the Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) for establishing four new big forest plantations covering 49,000 hectares to protect natural vegetation in reserved forests that had been damaged by human activities. The deputy minister, however, said deforestation increasing in the country, calling on TFS to protect natural vegetation in its forests to avoid turning the country into a desert. “The conservation of natural resources and the environment is a matter of life and death,” insisted the deputy minister. Mr Kanyasu said this, while closing a three-month paramilitary training workshop of TFS conservation rangers from TFS at Mlele Paramilitary Centre located at Rukwa – Lwafi Reserved Forest in Mlele District, Katavi Region, recently. He further said military training was meant to build the capacity of conservation officers, rangers and civil servants from conservation institutions under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism from the current civil system to paramilitary. Conservation entities under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism are Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Tanzania National Parks (Tanapa) and TFS. The TFS Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Prof Dos Santos Salayo, told the ‘Sunday News’ on the sidelines of the closing of paramilitary training that TFS currently had 23 forest plantations covering 470,000 hectares. He explained that TFS had established six new forest plantations among them four were big plantations, while two were small plantations covering 59,950 hectares. “Six newly established forest plantations cover 59,950 hectares of which 3,650 hectares have been planted 8,000,0000 seedlings of different varieties, including natural trees, teaks and pines,” added Prof Salayo.