SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said they must come back positively on track in their Tuesday’s aw ay match against Alliance FC at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mw anza. The defending champions were victims of 2-1 defeat at the hands of Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba over the weekend which was their second Mainland Premier League loss this season. Kagera Sugar scored twice in the first half through Kassim Hamis and Ramadhan Kapera, while the visitor’s Ugandan striker Emmanuel Okwi pumped the only goal for his team midway into the second half, which was not enough for them to snatch a tangible result. Despite the defeat, Simba still occupy third slot on the table with 60 points and they ought to win their next league match to regain the winning form as the race towards championship intensifies. However, all the top three teams have lost their past league games with both Y oung Africans and Azam FC deprived maximum three points respectively. The victory, on the other hand, saved Kagera Sugar, who needed to win at all cost to be assured of their presence in the league next season. It was the first round match between the two teams and they expect to meet again on May 9th for the second round tie in Dar es Salaam. In most cases, Kagera Sugar get the better of Simba and they are the team which ended Simba’s unbeaten league run last season at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam with 0-1 win in front of President John Magufuli. Speaking after the match, Aussems conceded the defeat saying his side played below expected form, especially in the first 45 minutes. He said his charges gave their opponents freedom to dominate the game. “We played badly in the first half with no aggressiveness, no tempo, no percussion and no good chances to score contrary to the second half when we came back into the game by scoring one goal,” Aussems said. He added that in football, you need to play well in both halves to stand a good chance of winning at the end of normal period of play. He added: “Unfortunately, our series of 11 consecutive league victories stops here in Bukoba. Let’s pick the pieces and get back on track right away on Tuesday against Alliance in Mwanza.” His skipper John Bocco, who was introduced into the match at halftime, said they must forget about the loss and concentrate on the next match. “As players, we dedicated ourselves on the field to win but the end product is against us. All is not lost since we have more games to play and more points to win,” Bocco said. Kagera Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime, on the other hand, was the happiest man and hailed his players for executing the game plan accordingly. “We promised our fans that this could be our day. We thank God we got about five chances and managed to utilize two of them well. This was a very tough game,” he said. Maxime had boasted that his boys were in high mood and promised to upset Simba’s championship bid when the two sides meet at the Kaitaba Stadium.