SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said his charges’ 3-0 win against Mbao FC is a warning to TP Mazembe, their opponents in CAF Champions League ahead of their Saturday clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba host TP Mazembe in their first CAF CL quarter final game at the 60,000-seater venue with the return leg scheduled a week later in Lubumbashi, DR Congo. The Msimbazi Street-based side are yet to lose a game at the National Stadium in all group stage matches and succeeded to grab vital nine points after posting three wins at home. A win to Simba on Saturday will make them continue to fly high their best home record in the competition while at the same time the coach also aims to start winning in the away venues. Speaking after his team’s 10th straight Mainland Premier League victory, Aussems said the good results should not make his charges relax, but rather they must keep the momentum running since they have difficult matches coming on their way. “We deserved to win yesterday (Sunday), because we played good football, dominated the game and created many scoring opportunities, but that was not enough, the next match against TP Mazembe is tough and we need to be fully focused,” Aussems said. He further said the win should encourage their fans countrywide to continue storming various venues they will be playing since they have a big role to play as far as the team’s success is concerned. On several occasion, Aussems has been calling the club supporters to always fully descend at the venue whenever the team is playing to rally behind their beloved club. “I believe that playing behind 60,000 vocal fans, Simba can defeat any team at the National Stadium,” the Belgian was once quoted saying. Simba’s next Mainland Premier League tie will see them playing entertaining JKT Tanzania at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro tomorrow as they eye to register a club record of 11 straight wins in the unfolding league. However, despite the remarkable triumph against Mbao, Simba remain third placed at the top flight league table with 57 points from 22 games, only two points behind second slot occupants Azam who have 59 points and 10 points away before catching up league leaders Young Africans at 67 points from 28-match outings. As it prevails, Simba have scored more goals than any team in the league (48), and conceded only 7 goals so far. Their title race chasers Azam have netted 46 goals and conceding 18 whereas Yanga, on the other hand have scored 45 goals while their defence has allowed 19 goals past them. TP Mazembe are currently trailing AS Vita by four points in their 16-team Congolese Premier League table, but the former have played a few matches (22), against 25 encounters played by Vita. Simba finished runners up in their group D of the CAF CL table with 9 points, one point behind leaders Al Ahly at 10 points while TP Mazembe topped their group C with 11 points respectively after winning 3 games, losing one match and drawing two ties.