YESTERDAY’s message in various churches observing Good Friday in the country revolved around patriotism and dedication to serve others and the nation. It was a day Christians in the country joined other Christians across the world to commemorate the passion and crucifixion of Jesus, a day marked before Easter Sunday, the Christian Church commemorates his resurrection. Preaching at a Good Friday service held at national level in Lukajange Cathedral, Kagera Region, the Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania Karagwe Diocese, Dr Benson Bagonza, said the church and the country needed few people, who were ready to solve problems facing Tanzanians. “There are a lot of evil acts in the country, including corruption, embezzlement of public funds, oppression, health problems and ignorance. We need few people, who are ready to sacrifice their lives for others,” he explained.He pointed out that it was not possible for the entire country to sacrifice, but the nation needed few people, who were ready to do so for others. However, he warned, “our weaknesses, ignorance and poverty should not be used as a means to oppress us for economic or political interests.” He added that praising, advocating, participating in, being silent on or protecting people, who oppressed others led to a downfall of the people doing so or their generation and the entire nation. Dr Bagonza also expressed a need for the congregation to be ready to give, be it time, talents, money or material things. “For any Christian, who knows his or her faith, giving is a mass on its own, expressing the way God gave His son. By giving we add to our dignity and integrity.” He noted that among the gifts Tanzania was endowed with under the founding father of the nation was freedom. “But such gift would mean nothing to the nation if other countries were still in conflict and lacked freedom. “Our freedom is not complete if our neighbours are not free,” he stressed. Dr Bagonza further urged Christians to adhere to and live by the word of God. “I urge you brethren to be ready to be redeemed.” He explained that the crucifixion and Jesus’s blood created the foundation of love and reconciliation. “I desire to witness such acts in the hearts of every Christian and the entire nation, as love is strong and brings positivity to everything.” Dr Bagonza elaborated that Tanzania was asingle nation that could not be divided. He compared the nation’s peace and unity as a plant that needed care and protection for it to continue blossoming. He urged the government to listen and protect people without bias, as it was among the ways for sustaining peace and unity within the country. “Tanzania that has peace and unity is the fruit of every religion, tribe, gender and political ideology,” he explained. “We will continue praying for our nation’s peace, wisdom in our leaders and pray for our President,” he added. “We are proud of being Tanzanians,” he said as he wished everyone a Happy Easter. Meanwhile, parents have been urged to inculcate in their children moral values because the youth were victims of many immoral acts. Leading a Good Friday prayer service at St Joseph Roman Catholic Cathedral in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Fr Novatus Mbaula said good relationship between parents and their children was essential for building the ethical basis of their children because they naturally learnt from their parents. Referring to Holy Scriptures, Fr Mbaula reminded the congregation Jesus’ message to women saying “Daughters of Jerusalem, don't weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.” He said Jesus was giving the parents a serious message that there was a problem on the way they brought up their children. Assistant Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) Eastern and Coast Diocese Dean Rev Chediel Lwiza said people should love one another regardless of their traditions, customs and ethnic groups because God loved all them without discrimination.