THE saga on forfeiture of properties owned by the Development Entrepreneurship for Community Initiative (DECI), yesterday took a new turn when six people were arrested by the police for demanding 2.4bn/- out of 14bn/- collected as proceeds of seeds they had sown. They are Andrew Kugwata, Frida Msuva, Imelda Adolph, Jackson Nyella, Thadeo Mgoso and Philemon Mwaluko. The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Mr Biswalo Mganga, told the ‘Daily News’ that those arrested are among 18 people, who have filed an application, seeking orders to be paid the 2.4bn/-. “These people have admitted in their application that they took part in the DECI pyramid scheme. It should be understood that taking part in a pyramid scheme is a criminal offence. We have managed to arrest six of them; the rest did not turn up. They will be charged accordingly,” the DPP said. Those who did not turn up and thus avoiding arrest are Joseph Kessy, Samwel Tarimo, Nobel John, Aden Kimambo, Jacline Chacha, Christina Mkundi, John Kulwa, Joseph Mnangu, Oliver Ndanshau, Omary Kimossa and a company called Energy Petroleum (T) Limited. The DPP said further that there had been a trend by some people of forging signatures of State Attorneys Theophil Mutakyawa and Wankyo Simon to frustrate the move he had launched of forfeiting DECI properties. He warned that those involved in such illegalities would be dealt with accordingly. Mr Mganga has moved the court to order for forfeiture to the government of the United Republic of Tanzania of all DECI properties in terms of sections 9 (1) (a) and 16 (1) of the Proceeds of Crime Act, as amended. Judge Steven Magoiga was yesterday scheduled to start hearing the application by the DPP. However, the scheduling order was disrupted following the move by the 18 people to file their intervening application. The DPP requested all of them to attend the hearing session today. The respondents in the application by the DPP are Jackson Sifael Mtares, Dominick Kigendi, Timotheo Saigaran ole Loitginye and Samwel Sifael Mtares, who were convicted of operating a pyramid scheme by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam on August 19, 2013. Resident Magistrate Stuart Sanga sentenced them to pay a 21m/- fine each or serve a six year jail term in default of paying the fine. All the convicts paid the fine to escape the jail term. The convicts have resisted the application by the DPP. Among properties whose forfeiture the DPP is requesting the High Court to order include cash money in a bank account held at National Microfinance Bank (NMB), Msasani Branch amounting to 12,503,068,647/89. There is cash money in a bank account held at Dar es Salaam Community Bank (DCB), Uhuru Branch, amounting to 1,457,700,462/49 and other cash money in a bank account held at Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Samora Brach amounting to 57,933,404/10. Other properties include houses and plots, notably three houses, one located at Mwembe Madafu, Ukonga, another at Manzese and the other in Kinondoni Municipality, all in Dar es Salaam and one house situated at Rufiji Street in Mwanza. There is Plot No. 651 Block M located at Forest area in Mbeya, landed property on Plot No. 2/283/2 Block E at Mabibo, Kinondoni, unsurveyed land at Manyinga Village in Mvomero, Morogoro and Plot No. 467 Block H located at Tegeta area in Dar es Salaam. Other properties include11 motor vehicles of different make, notably Toyota Land Cruiser, Nissan Terrano, Mitsubishis Pajero, Toyota Mark II, Toyota Ipsum, Subaru Legacy, Toyota RAV4 and Toyota Premio. The DPP had been maintaining during hearing of appeals both at the High Court and later at the Court of Appeal that none of the members of DECI was required to benefit from the illegal game because during operation of the pyramid scheme, both operators and members were committing offences.