PRESIDENT John Magufuli has directed all ministers and their deputies to begin working from their new offices in the new government city of Mtumba in Dodoma beginning tomorrow, failure of which they risk losing their jobs. The directive concerns also Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) (Tamisemi) Selemani Jafo, whose building is still under construction. President Magufuli said this yesterday just after the launch of his new offices at Chamwino State House, 41 houses of employees at the State House, which can accommodate up to 160 staff, and 20 other new buildings of government ministries in Mtumba Government City. “I want to see all ministers in their new offices, including Minister for Tamisemi, whose building is yet to be accomplished because of the design his ministry had opted,” he noted. According to Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, the Tamisemi building is scheduled for completion in May 2019, while the buildings of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications and those of the Prime Minister’s Office are scheduled for completion at the end of this month. Projects for the construction of government buildings at Chamwino State House and those in Mtumba have been implemented by the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF), Suma JKT and Mzinga Corporation, which is also under TPDF. Following the strides made in the construction of various government buildings, Mirerani Wall and ongoing construction of houses for Ukonga prison wardens in Dar es Salaam, President Magufuli has directed the Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), Gen Venance Mabeyo, to meet with other heads of security organs to ensure all the youth from National Service, who have participated in the projects are employed. He directed that by recognising their contribution, patriotism and diligence during the implementation of the projects, they should be employed by TPDF, the Police Force, the Tanzania Prisons Service, the Tanzania Intelligence and Security Service (TISS), the Immigration and the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB). The decision made by the Head of State came after Gen Mabeyo requested him to at least say a promising word that would boost their morale after having dedicated their service to the nation. He also requested the President to think of promoting senior officers, who had supervised the projects. During his speech, which was broadcast live by several local TV and radio stations, President Magufuli promoted the head of all operations for the construction of government buildings, Maj Charles Mbuge, to the rank of Brigadier General. To newly promoted Mbuge, it was a happy day as he walked out of the ceremony for the new government buildings with a new rank. Equally after the President had said that the youth, who had participated in the project be employed, it was jubilation after he cut the ribbon to launch the new government houses as they started singing patriotic songs, praising the Head of State inside the trucks that were ferrying them from Mtumba. Yesterday, the Head of State said the government was implementing several development projects in Dodoma to modernise the city. According to him, currently the government is implementing a 4.58bn/- project - that’s the construction of a major health facility in Mtumba, which will be providing medical services to government officials who will be working in the new government city as well as Mtumba residents. The President said he really wanted to relocate his office from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma, but he could not make it at least for now because his mother was critically ill.