REGIONAL authorities in Lindi, Mtwara and Ruvuma yesterday embarked on the evacuation of residents in disaster-prone areas and suspended government and public activities as precautions against tragedies likely to be caused by the impending Tropical Cyclone Kenneth. Forecasts by the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA) and other international weather bodies have indicated that the hurricane was likely to make a landfall in northern Mozambique between yesterday evening and midday today. Cyclones are usually accompanied by life-threatening effects such as floods caused by heavy rains, strong winds, destruction of infrastructure and crops as well as high tides in the ocean, thus making road, marine and air transport in affected areas difficult. Moving a government statement on behalf of the Prime Minister in the National Assembly yesterday, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Ms Jenista Mhagama, directed authorities in the southern regions to take precautions ahead of the cyclone. The minister, who is in charge of Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and Disabled, recommended temporary suspension of transport and human activities offshore the Indian Ocean.According to weather updates by TMA, effects of the cyclone can go as far as 600 kilometres from its landfall in Mozambique. As of yesterday afternoon, cyclone Kenneth was 175 kilometres off the coast travelling at a speed of 140 kilometres per hour. Ms Mhagama assured residents in the regions that rescue agencies were ready to provide assistance to households, which may be affected by heavy rains and strong winds to be caused by the hurricane. “Residents should avoid using dilapidated infrastructure such as bridges and roads since such amenities might collapse due to the heavy rains. “It is also recommended that transport services in the areas should be suspended during the expected occurrence of the storm whichaccording to TMA is between midnight of April 24 to midday of April 26,” she said. The minister, who doubles as the Government Chief Whip in the National Assembly, called upon disaster management units from village to regional level to educate the public, especially those living along the seashore, to vacate. “Public awareness is vital to enable the people take precautionary measures should the storm hit their areas,” she advised. As part of precautions for the looming cyclone and likely disasters, Lindi Regional Commissioner Godfrey Zambi, yesterday directed for temporary closure of all schools as well as government and private offices. Mr Zambi also suspended commemoration of the World Malaria Day 2019 which was to be marked at national level in Lindi Region yesterday. The RC also directed that all residents in disaster-prone areas should be evacuated to demarcated areas which are safe from tragedies such as floods. The Lindi RC, who doubles as Acting Regional Commissioner for Ruvuma, directed public institutions in Ruvuma to also suspend public activities and urged residents to vacate to demarcated areas. “The only offices to remain open and proceed with their activities should be hospitals, police stations, health centres and prisons,” he instructed. The same precautionary measures were enforced in Mtwara where the Regional Commissioner, Mr Gelasius Byakanwa, ordered schools and businesses closed to ensure the residents’ safety. Mtwara District Commissioner, Mr Evod Mmanda, advised defiant residents in accident-prone areas to vacate the areas immediately. “There are some people who have decided to remain in those disaster-prone areas thinking that they can run away when the disaster strikes but that will not be possible,” the DC warned as he addressed residents who had gathered at a demarcated safe area in the region. TMA had on Wednesday announced that the storm had been spotted in north western parts of Madagascar, which is about 600 kilometres from the coast of Tanzania’s Mtwara Region and was travelling in a rotation at 160 kilometres per hour. According to forecasts on Thursday afternoon, tropical storm Kenneth will be 150 kilometers from Mtwara and will be travelling at an estimated rotating speed of 170 kilometres per hour. TMA explained that the landfall in Mozambique, about 200 kilometres from Mtwara and travelling at a speed of 100 kilometres per hour, could have its affects spread to Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma regions. The expected heavy rains, coupled with strong winds, are likely to also disrupt fishing and marine transport activities in Dar es Salaam, Coast, Tanga, Lindi, Mtwara, Unguja and Pemba. The Commissioner for Operations at Tanzania Fire and Rescue Brigade, Mr Billy Mwakatage, said the brigade was ready to swing into action should the storm hit the regions. “We have a specific task force, which is responsible for making rescue interventions when such disasters occur,” he said. The Director for Disaster Management Department in the Prime Minister’s Office, Colonel Jimmy Matamwe, said the department usually puts in place strategies to combat effects caused by such disasters when they occur in the country. Col Matamwe stated that his office was prepared to provide assistance to households that would be affected by the looming rains. On the other hand, Mr Zambi directed Lindi residents living along the coast to vacate to demarcated Angaza, Lindi and Mpilipili secondary schools and Mtanda playgrounds. The Director of Prevention Services at the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Leonard Subi, stressed the need for residents in Lindi and Ruvuma regions to take precautions against the looming cyclone. Dr Subi also directed all health centres, pharmacies and hospitals in the regions to remain open ready to provide emergency services. The Registrar of ships at the Tanzania Shipping Agency Corporation (TASAC), Engineer Japhet Loisimaye, said in addition to Mtwara and Lindi, shipping companies in Dar es Salaam and Mafia Island should suspend trips until further notice. Eng Loisimaye reasoned that even though the effects of the cyclone have been predicted to hit the southern regions, there was a likelihood of strong winds having an adverse impact on ocean going vessels.