MAINLAND giants Simba will be out to cause a major upset when they lock horns with TP Mazembe in CAF Champions League secondleg quarterfinal clash at Stade TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi DR Congo today. Simba missed the opportunity to kill the game at home after being held to a goalless draw last weekend at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam hence making the reverse tie tricky for both teams. Skipper John Bocco and Meddie Kagere, both had precious opportunities to snatch the victory, with the former missing the penalty, while the latter hit the post in match. With the results, a draw of any number of goals will see Simba progressing into the semifinals of the competition courtesy of away goal rule but any defeat will see them out of the race for semis place. Simba who jetted off yesterday in the DR Congo with a private jet with a contingent of 18 players arrived safely in Lubumbashi on the same day ahead of their today’s clash set to kick-off at 1500hrs CAT. Players who left with the team for the do or die battle in Lubumbashi are Aishi Manula, Deogratius Munishi, Zana Coulibaly, Mohamed Hussein, Jjuuko Murshid, Erasto Nyoni, Paul Bukaba, James Kotei, Jonas Mkude, Muzamir Yassin, Said Ndemla, Haruna Niyonzima, Hassan Dilunga, Clatous Chama, John Bocco, Meddie Kagere, Emmanuel Okwi and Rashid Juma. Simba clearly know that they are on the brink of creating an extraordinary history. They became the first Tanzanian team to reach the quarterfinals of the CAF Champions league after 45 years. They will be seeking to attain their 1974 feat, when they reached beyond the quarterfinals of the then All Africa Club Cup Championship, presently known as the CAF Champions League, when they were stopped in the semifinals by Egypt’s Mehalla el Kubra in Alexandria. Going into the match, Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems believes his side can upset TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi. He tweeted saying Simba should keep writing history. “Reaching the 1/4 final of CAF Champions League was already a feat but why should we stop there? Let’s keep writing history together in Lubumbashi ... A winner is a dreamer who never gives up,” said Aussems. “We gave them trouble in the first leg and by doing that, we have shown that we can compete with any team in Africa bearing in mind that TP Mazembe is one of the biggest clubs in the continent,” said the Belgian trainer. TP Mazembe boss Mihayo Kazembe highlighted both teams failure to find the back of the net in the first leg, while also being mindful of the tricky assignment that lies in wait for his team in the second-leg. “Both teams have a chance in Lubumbashi; we will need to play with caution to make sure we don’t concede a goal,” Kazembe said. Zambian referee Janny Sikazwe who was introduced by CAF recently will be in charge of the match. CAF omitted names of officials who were named earlier, citing technical reason which they did not disclose. The aggregate winner will face either CS Constantine or Esperance de Tunis in the semifinals of this season’s competition.