MOROGORO, Songwe and Mwanza regions topped the list of road traffic mortality rates during the first quarter of this year with Temeke traffic region leading in road safety for the period that ended last month. Morogoro had the worst road safety records in terms of fatal incidents, registering 26 road-crash related deaths, followed by Songwe and Mwanza, which recorded 25 and 22 deaths, respectively. According to Traffic Police’s statistics on road accidents, deaths and injuries in all Mainland regions between January and March, this year, the police region with least mortality rate was Temeke, with only two people dying in road crashes during the first three months of the current year. Morogoro recorded ten more deaths compared to the same period last year while Rufiji, Iringa, Ruvuma and Kinondoni, which were in the top four list during the same period last year worked hard to reduce the road tragedies. Rufiji, which topped the list with 36 deaths in the first quarter of 2018, reported only seven deaths in the first quarter of 2019. Iringa’s death toll dropped from 34 to eight, with Kinondoni reducing the mortality rate to 15 deaths from 33 reported last year while Ruvuma’s dropped from 29 deaths to four. Other regions with the highest fatality rate included Arusha (17), Njombe (16), Tabora (16) while Simiyu (4), Singida (5), Mbeya (6) and Rukwa (6), were among regions with the least deaths. Ilala, Kinondoni, Temeke registered the most accidents, with 285 incidents reported in Ilala, 234 in Kinondoni and 139 in Temeke. High populations and high number of vehicles and motorcycles contribute to high number of accidents recorded in the three traffic regions. Deaths, according to road users’ categories in the first three months of 2019 were passengers (108), pedestrians (90), motorcyclists (7 3), drivers (32), bicyclists (23) and cart pushers (nine). There was an overall reduction of road traffic deaths during the first quarter of the year, with 335 deaths occurring compared to 555 recorded last year. Traffic Police Commander SACP Fortunatus Musilimu attributed the decrease to enhanced efforts by the traffic police to enforce road traffic regulations, tough penalties to defiant motorists and awareness creation to road users. “Road safety is a crosscutting issue, not only in Tanzania but all over the world, police alone cannot end road tragedies...we need concerted efforts by all stakeholders and ensure that everyone play their part and adheres to road traffic regulations,” said Mr Musilimu. The traffic police department has come up with a sixmonth campaign to reduce road deaths to 45 per cent while targeting to hit 50 per cent by the year end, said SACP Musilimu, vowing to maintain strict reinforcement of road safety laws and exert stern legal measures against defaulters. “The police will continue to educate the public and most importantly the motorists on the importance of compliance to traffic laws and regulations and the key risk factors that are linked directly to road crashes, serious injuries and deaths,” he said. The five key risk factors for road traffic injuries include speed, drink–driving and the failure to use helmets, seatbelts and child restraints. According to Police Lawyer Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Deus Sokoni, enforcing good laws is effective in changing road user behaviour on the five key risk factors, with changing road user behaviour being a critical component of the road safety initiatives. Road Safety expert Henry Bantu, commenting on the country’s road safety status, urged a holistic approach to curb the menace, insisting that the police should not shoulder burden of road carnage alone. “Whenever deadly accident hit the country, all the blame goes to traffic police, that’s not right, we need to look at the root causes and address them properly,” said Mr Bantu, chairperson of Safespeed Foundation. He said five key players towards making the country’s road safer include road infrastructure engineering, driver education, traffic enforcement, encouragement and emergence preparedness. Mr Bantu said injuries to pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorcyclists become inevitable without an appropriate safety infrastructure, insisting that drivers should attend recognised training institutions.