NINE startup companies are competing for US $5,000 dollars (about 12m/-) through the e-Kilimo Accelerator programme organised by the embassy of Denmark in Tanzania in collaboration with a Tanzanian company, Sahara Ventures. The Managing Director of Sahara Ventures, Mr Jumanne Mtambalike, said four successful companies will be selected for a grand prize which includes post-acceleration support from Sahara’s business acceleration wing called Sahara Accelerator. “The aim of this project was to create impact in the agriculture sector by using digital technology in Tanzania,” he said. Key technological areas of focus of the programme which was launched by the Director General of Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), Dr Amos Nungu, in June, last year, include agribusiness, biotechnology, business skills and communication technology. Mr Mtambalike said the accelerator involved a number of stages including a call for ideas where innovators and entrepreneurs around the country applied. A total of 144 ideas were submitted where 15 best ideas were selected to join a 14-day special training called ‘bootcamp’. Each stage within the project included training on a number of areas like business development, financial management, prototyping and market research, among others. “Apart from idea selection window, the project also called for existing startup businesses where three post revenue startup companies participated in the acceleration stage and joined eight pre-revenue startup companies from the bootcamp stage,” he explained. Adding: “For almost three months team were arranged to meet with different professionals in business, agriculture and entrepreneurship in order to shape their ideas so that they can bring impact in the agriculture sector.” Mr Mtambalike said the project was received with positive response by young Tanzanians from different parts in the country who presented different ways of using technology in the agriculture sector. The e-Kilimo project is a startup accelerator leveraging on the digital tools and technology advancement to accelerate the growth of ideas and startups that can create impact in the food and agriculture sector. The accelerator is aiming at supporting early-stage ideas and startups in the sector through mentoring, technical support and seed funds.