SOME Chinese Geologists along with their Vice Minister for Natural Resources of China are in Dar es Salaam for a five-day discussion with Tanzania’s government on how to improve the latter’s mining sector and enable the government increase its income through the industry. The Deputy Minister for Minerals, Mr Stanslaus Nyongo said the Chinese are in talks with the government to cooperate in improving Tanzania’s geological survey and in turn enable the country open much in minerals. He said the two sides on a win-win situation have formed a regulatory framework that will provide them with opportunities for the governments’ entities as well as the private sector to improve further in the industry. “This cooperation between Chinese and Tanzanian Geologists will support Tanzania to conduct intensive technological survey and know the amount of minerals available in the country. It will add value on how to find reliable market for our minerals,” he said. However, he noted that the government had put in place a number of strategies and reviews on the previous policy and legislation to accommodate small scale mining activities, which have been growing all the time, adding that “it has also put efforts on how to maintain the growth of the subsector.” Mr Nyongo told Mr Z hong Z iran of China’s Geological Survey and Natural Resources that minerals found in Tanzania are gold, silver, iron, base metals (copper, nickel, cobalt, tin, lead) and Platinum Group Metals (PGM) including Rare Earth Elements (REE), coal, uranium, diamond as well as varieties of coloured gemstones, limestones, graphite, kaolin, kyanite, magnesite, phosphate and gypsum. He said, focusing on the government’s efforts in the country, the Ministry is now looking for strategic collaboration projects and researches that would help it achieve the mission. On his side Mr Zhong mentioned some areas of cooperation to include training to high levels in areas of mineral economics, gemstones and geochemical research to local experts. Also, he mentioned the area of research on strategic metal for Rare Earth Elements (REE), mainly available in the western part of Tanzania in order to expose new areas that have potential economic mineralisation.