THE Pharmacy Council of Tanzania (PCT)is preparing regulations that will among others provide measures to be taken against pharmacists, who do not adhere to rules governing drugs’ dispensing as prescribed in the medicines. The Council’s Registrar, Ms Elizabeth Shekalaghe said in Dar es Salaam recently that the move aims at safeguarding the public health. “We are at an advanced stage and we will soon come up with a guideline which will address various challenges facing the sector including, dispensing of medicines without a prescription,” she added. Ms Shekalaghe further explained that “selling prescribed medicines without a prescription label from a medical doctor has been a serious problem, which we are currently finding out its solution... the regulation we are working on will provide for measures to be taken against the malpractice.” She added that using a drug without a prescription or consulting a medical practitioner, may lead to drug resistance because they are not properly used. Ms Shekalaghe noted that some Pharmacists in the public have not been observing the rules and regulations governing dispensing of drugs, thus putting the lives of patients at risk. She further said that following that challenge Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) came up with regulation that classified medicines in various groups in order to protect people’s health. She said that most of the Chemists and other drug selling shops have taken the service as a business that is why the government was taking measures to control quality. “We are thinking on better ways on how to improve dispensing of drugs in pharmacies and other drug selling shops by also coming up with indicative prices in order to control the quality of this service,” she added. She said currently there were 1,683 registered pharmacies countrywide, where 800 of them are in Dar es Salaam. Those registered as Accredited Drug Dispensing Outlets (ADDO) were more than 13,000 noting that there was a need to re-register them in order to remove those which have failed to meet the required standards. Ms Shekalaghe further said that plans are underway to reregister all drug shops including wholesale and ADDO to ensure that they adhere to laws and rules. She explained that drug sellers at pharmacy level are supposed to be pharmacists, and none is allowed to provide prescribed medicines to patient without doctor’s prescription. However, Ms Shekalaghe called upon the drug sellers to abide by the laws and regulations governing the provision of the service, noting that legal measures will be taken against non-complaints.