TANZANIA will participate in the second Belt and Road Initiative forum (BRI) for international cooperation to be held in Beijing, China next week. Organised by the theme "Belt and Road Cooperation: Shaping a Brighter Shared Future", the forum will run for three days from 25th to 27th April this year and will be attended by more than 5,000 participants from 129 countries and 29 International Organisations. Addressing a press conference here yesterday, Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Wang Yi, said the Second BRF aims to bring high-quality cooperation of the member countries under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) framework. "We are expecting to have over 37 Heads of State or government who will also attend a roundtable meeting to be chaired by President Xi Jinping," he pointed out. Speaking to ‘Daily News on Saturday', Tanzania's Ambassador to China Mr Mbelwa Kairuki, said the former President Jakaya Kikwete will attend the forum under the umbrella of the United Nations (UN). "And the government will be represented by one of the leaders at the ministerial level," hinted the Tanzanian diplomat. Earlier, during the press conference, Mr Yi said Chinese President Xi will open the ceremony by giving out keynote speech, before chairing the Leaders' Roundtable Summit. He further said that during the summit, there will be 12 other sideline forums and conferences for the business communities. This will be held for the first time with focus being on strengthening further the bilateral and multilateral cooperation in all aspects. According to him, trade volume between China and countries participating in the BRI has exceeded $6 trillion and the number of investment is over $80 billion that's together have created more than 300,000 jobs for the people within countries that have signed the BRI agreements with China, Tanzania being one of them. BRI refers to the Silk Road economic belt and the 21st century maritime Silk Road that it aims to build a trade and infrastructure network connecting Asia with Europe and Africa through the ancient trade routes of the Silk Road.