THE Amani Children's Home has called for more support to street children, as it registers remarkable success in helping over 700 street children last year. Amani Children's Home Executive Director Meindert Schaap said at a special event they hosted for Moshi children recently that the children had talents and rights and so they needed support to realise their potential. "Street children are also children, they are not criminals, not drug addicts, not dirty and dangerous little beings that we should avoid at all cost. They are children. They have talents. They have the heart and they have the same rights as any other children to receive safe shelter, protection, happy childhood, education and a sense of belonging. I urge people to see the potential in them," said Mr Schaap. With the theme 'All Children Have Equal Rights' the event was co-hosted by Amani and other local non-governmental organisations working with street children – Kili Centre, Msamaria and Lengo la Malaika. Over 100 children from all four nongovernmental organisations attended the event, which was a fun-filled day of games, competitions and prizes. Every year since 2012, April 12 is marked as International Day for Street Children. It has since been a day to raise awareness about hardships faced by street children and recognise that they are children, who deserve to have their rights respected and their needs met in a caring and respectful way. Amani Centre for Street Children works to rescue, educate and reunify street children with their families, helping over 700 street children in 2018. Speaking on the occasion, Moshi Municipal Social Welfare Officer Duncan Mgati said not many people were aware of that street children faced hardships and that every day they risked their lives living in dangerous conditions. "Worse still, they do not receive help, but are simply marginalised because they are homeless. The goal of this special day is to raise awareness about the realities these children face and to let everyone know that they still deserve the rights and respect we give to all children. "As government, together with these NGOs, we work hard to reduce the number of children living and working in the streets and reintegrate them in their families. We congratulate Amani for organising this important event and for all they do to help street children," said Mr Mgati. One of the rescued children said she was happy that she did not live on the streets anymore. She said at night she would get scared because people would try to harass and abuse her. She said she knew that also happened to other girls living on the streets.