HARUNA Niyonzima scored a superb goal and Emmanuel Okwi was also in a score sheet as Simba recovered from their week end slump to beat Alliance FC 2-0 in Mwanza yesterday. In a Mainland Premier League clash played at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza, Simba had to toil to collect maximum points as Alliance battled tooth and nail to resist a defeat. Following the victory, Simba have now collected 63 points from 25 matches, moving from within three points behind second-placed Azam FC and 11 points adrift league leaders Young Africans. However, Yanga and Azam have played 32 matches. For Alliance, the defeat was detrimental as they are still fighting for the league’s survival as the remain 15th in the standings with 37 points tied with Mwadui FC and Mbao FC but are separated on goaldifference advantage. In yesterday’s encounter, Simba managed to shrug off the disappointing 2-1 defeat they suffered on Saturday at the hands of Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba. Patrick Aussems charges started the match strongly, searching for an early goal that would give them much impetus to win the game. Simba went close in several occasion but Adam Salamba, who partnered skipper John Bocco, failed to make the most from the chances created. Alliance resisted no more as Niyonzima scored a brilliant goal in the 20th minute, his first of the campaign this season. The creative Rwandan reached to a deep cross in by Muzamiru Yassin at the far post, chested the ball down before firing a cracking shot at the rooftop past hapless goalkeeper. Simba opted to hit aerial ball inside their opponent’s territory aiming to capitalise on the towering striking duo of Bocco and Salamba. Alliance Head Coach, Malale Hamsini was forced to make early changes, bringing in striker, Hussein Javu for Richard John. Alliance came into the picture and started stretching Simba to the limit as Balama Mapinduzi, Javu and Michael Chinedu, were seeing much of the balls. In the 34th minute, Dickson Ambundo’s set piece almost beat Aishi Manula, but the first choice goalkeeper was agile between the posts, stretching high to collect the ball. The Msimbazi Reds survived a real scare in the last minute of the first half as left wing back, Asante Kwasi cleared the ball off the line with Manula well beaten. After the break, Salamba wasted a glittering opportunity to stretch the lead, firing straight into the waiting hands of the keeper, after latching onto a penetration pass from Said Ndemla. Simba introduced Zambian midfielder, Clatous Chama for Hassan Dilunga in the 56th minute, while Alliance called in Bigirimana Blaise for Chinedu. Later on, Simba introduced Okwi in the 64th minute for misfiring Salamba, while Alliance also brought in Sameer Vincent for Shabani William. Vincent almost produced an equaliser with an inch perfect cross that met a stretching Javu’s leg but the ball sailed wide. Simba were in the comfort zone after 75th minute, when Okwi netted the second goal. The Ugandan took a sharp turn inside the box and cleverly beat two defenders before beating the keeper for his ninth goal of the campaign. With ten minutes to go, Simba deployed Meddie Kagere for Bocco as they slowed down the tempo to keep their energy ahead of their next match against KMC at the same venue tomorrow before confronting Biashara United in Mausoma on Saturday. Immediately after facing Biashara United, the reigning champions will then fly to Morogoro to play host to JKT Tanzania on Tuesday. Then they will fly to Mbeya for two fixtures against Tanzania Prisons on May 3rd and Mbeya City on May 5th this year.