TOUR agents from key South-East Asian tourism outbound markets arrived in the country on Monday to arrange for tour safari in Tanzania for their clients in Asia. Agents from Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand jetted at Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and were to meet Tanzanian travel and tour agents so as to arrange for tourists expected to be flying in the country in the near future. Tanzania Tourists Board (TTB) Managing Director, Ms Devotha Mdachi, received the agents who were accompanied by the First Secretary at the Embassy of Tanzania in Malaysia, Mr Khatibu Makenga. She said they were seeking to break the ‘high season norm’, so that tourists keep coming in the country throughout the year, compensating the low season. “We are working closely with our embassies who in turn are diligently reaching out to travel and tourism agents in the respective countries who have since agreed to come, set a base and see that more tourists flow in regardless of the high or low season norm,” said Ms Mdachi. South-East Asia is not only a major tourism destination region but also an increasingly important tourism outbound market. The increasing size of the prospering middle class in the region is a crucial factor behind the growth in travel out of Asian markets, according to World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). She said the 22 agents would meet with members of Tanzania Tour Operators (TATO) as well as officials from Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Serengeti National Park. They would also go to the Machame Gate which leads to the Machame route for climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. Ms Mdachi said that they are also working with Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as Tantrade to ensure they promote tourism industry in the country. She said that a promotion campaign in Russia last month generated a lot of interest from Russians to travel to Tanzania. She said there would be road more shows in Russia and Israel and they were expecting tourists from China, India, Nordic and Scandinavian countries. One of the agents, Mr Ekapol Weeranantanapan from Thailand said that he was prepared to bring in tourists from his country, noting that Kilimanjaro was one of areas that attract a lot of interest from Thailand nationals. “I had started selling Tanzania in Thailand, but after I see more of the areas, when I am back in Thailand I will have more facts at hand, evidence and hence be able to convince more and more to come to Tanzania. So far, Kilimanjaro is among the top five tourism attractions for Thailand nationals and I believe in the world as well,” said Mr Weeranantanapan who is also a senior sales representative with the Ethiopian Airline. Kilimanjaro International Airports Development Company (KADCO) Managing Director, Engineer Christopher Mukoma, said that since completion of the major renovation of the airport, more airplanes and travellers have been landing at and taking off from KIA. He said 85 percent of those who arrive there are tourists.