SIMBA will lock horns today at the National Stadium with Tout Puissant Mazembe, formerly known as Englebert of Democratic Republic of Congo in the first leg quarter final match of the CAF Champions League. The winners in the Simba versus TP Mazembe tie will meet the winners between CS Constantine (Algeria), and Esperance (Tunisia), while the winners in another quarter final match between Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa and El Ahly of Egypt will face the triumphant side of the Horoya (Guinea), and Wydad Casablanca of Morocco in the last four of the competition. This is a match which the home boys must win, otherwise they will compromise their chances to qualify for the semifinals, when they play their away match at the small Stade TP Mazembe (capacity 18,000 seats), in the Kamalondo suburb of Lubumbashi. Simba have been performing very well at home in all their group matches, but should also bear in mind that their opponents have been doing the same to reach this stage of the competition. Our Tanzanian representatives have no reason to be scared or become less confident simply because they will meet the fivetimes African champions. Although, TP Mazembe is not a side to under estimate taking into consideration that they managed to qualify at this stage as Simba did, but it is wrong to think that they are as strong and well drilled squad as it was until recently. They are just an ordinary African soccer club, unlike it was until recently when it was right to regard it in the official Pride of Sub-Sahara in soccer. The absence of some key players who were the team’s jewels and who helped to win international awards for the club has reduced the team to, what you can describe as a shadow of their predecessors. For example the absence of the Tanzanian respectable striker, Mbwana Samatta who now plays for Belgian side- KRC-Genk and captain for the Taifa Stars, has to some extent reduced the power of its forward line. As a result TP Mazembe is now second in the 16 team Premier League of the DRC with 58 points behind by four points to leaders of AS Vita, who were ousted by Simba in the group qualifying matches. Both teams have six remaining matches in the league. Samatta used to spearhead the team’s attack and was their top scorer, both at home and in international matches. TP Mazembe has so far lost four matches in the league including the recent lone goal defeat to sixth placed Saint Eloi Lipopo that has not even once represented the country in the continental competition. Simba players should ask themselves if underdogs like Saint Eloi Lipopo have managed to bring down Mazembe on their knees at their home ground in Lubumbashi why not them in Dar es Salaam? After all, if Simba have managed to withstand the strength of other African giants like El Ahly of Egypt and AS Vita of Congo, what should make them fail to do it to the Congolese side today (Saturday) before the home crowd? I can say with certainty from the way Simba have recently played with skill and confidence that they have the necessary skills, tactics and powers to emerge victorious. All that they have to do is to play as a team and try as much as they can to be offensive rather become too defensive minded. Today’s match is also the right opportunity for the Msimbazi boys to revenge at the bitter 3-1 (at home), and 2-1 (away), defeats they suffered when they met the Congolese team in the 2011CAF Leagues championship. Latest reports indicate that TP Mazembe’s top strikers Tresor Mputu and Ben Malango who were not well recently have recovered from malaria and injury respectively and will most likely be in the team’s first eleven. Mputu featured in the last fortnight’s league match against Saint Eloi Lupopo, which Mazembe lost 1-0. But, instead of looking at this picture as a bad omen it should inspire the Red Lions to do better to emerge victorious and give Tanzanians another broad smile. Tanzanian fans should also play their part by providing support to our representatives in the continental competition and set aside their local football rivalries. Simba will be in action as the country’s representatives and not of their Msimbazi club house. All the best Simba, and good luck. The writer is a former Sports Editor of the Daily News and member of the National Sports Council of Tanzania, who covered local and international competitions at home and abroad, and at times traveled with clubs and Taifa Stars as