THE teams taking part in the U-17 Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals have praised the good hospitality showed by hosts Tanzania. This is the first time for Tanzania to play host to the continental football showpiece, which opened last Sunday and its final will be staged on April 28th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. “We are very happy with the kind of hospitality we are getting in Tanzania,” Senegal’s coach Malick Daf said after his team lost 2-0 to Cameroon on Monday. Thomas Libiih, the Cameroon coach also made it clear that the hospitality in Tanzania is fantastic and his team is enjoying it. Uganda Cubs coach Samuel Kwesi Fabin was equally impressed with the hospitality by the hosting nation. “I think so far we are doing well in terms of the level of hospitality we are getting. We also want to try and push for positive results after losing our opening game 1-0 to Angola,” he added. Even at the hotels where the teams are allocated they are happy and enjoying the level of hospitality and food. Two teams from different groups are allocated in one Hotel with Uganda and Guinea accommodated at the Peacock Hotel, while Angola and Cameroon stay at the Holiday Inn. The Nigeria and Senegal are accommodated at the Sea Scape Hotel, while hosts Tanzania and Morocco are accommodated at the Ledger Beach Plaza. Meanwhile, attendance at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam is expected to double today as Serengeti Boys host Uganda in the last match of the day. Government announced free entry in all matches of the unfolding 2019 U-17 AFCON games, a directive which came into force from Monday when two matches in group B were played at Chamazi Complex in the city. The good news was revealed by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who was the guest of honour during the grand opening ceremony of the competition last Sunday. Majaliwa was flanked by Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) President Ahmad Ahmad, who in his short inaugural speech called upon all competing teams and players to fully embrace discipline. He said that is the most important thing which can help them to fly high as far as their football career is concerned. The move has wholeheartedly been received by Tanzanians and was evidenced on Monday at Chamazi Complex, where the number of sports fans who stormed the venue to watch the first game between Cameroon and Gabon was remarkable despite kicking off in the afternoon under the scorching sun of the city.