FOUR foreigners, including a Nigerian businessman who masquerades as a pastor, appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with trafficking in Heroin Hydrochloride, narcotic drugs, weighing over 16kg. They are Henry Ogwuanyi (44), the “Pastor” with Soldiers of the Cross Ministry and Onyebuchi Ogbu (34), both Nigerian businessmen and Linda Mazure (21), a student and Martins Plavins (20), a contractor, all of them Latvian nationals. The accused persons were arraigned to face two different charges. They were not allowed to enter a plea to the charge against them when they were brought before two magistrates in different court chambers because their case will be heard by the High Court. Since the offence under which the accused persons were facing is not bailable, the magistrates ordered them to remain in custody, pending the completion of investigations and subsequent committal proceedings of the cases to the trial court. The prosecution, led by State Attorneys Constantine Kakula and Batilda Mushi alleged before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi that on April 21, 2019 at Msimbazi area in Ilala District in the City, Ogwuanyi and Ogbu trafficked in 15.8kg of Heroin Hydrochloride. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile, the prosecution charged that on April 17, 2019 at J ulius Nyerere International Airport within Ilala District, Ogwuanyi, Mazure and Plavins trafficked in 4.87kg of Heroin Hydrochloride. The police force announced the arrest of the accused persons in connection with the offences on April 23, 2019. The Commander of the Anti-Drugs Unit, Assistant Commissioner of Police Salim Kabeleke told a news conference in the city that the accused were arrested while on a mission of trafficking in the drugs. Commander Kabagera said that the accused persons, who had arrived in the country dealing with the narcotic drugs, were living in different places in Dar es Salaam. He has urged citizens to develop a culture of reporting when visitors are in the country without having specific activities. He said that on April 17, 2019, the police arrested Mazure with 5kg of the drugs at the airport. After conducting investigations, he said, the police discovered that she had entered the country on April 11, 2019, accompanied by her colleague, Plavins. Upon their arrival, Commander Kabelege said, they booked a room at Aris Hotel at Kariakoo. The police pursued them and after their arrest, the accused admitted to have come into Tanzania to deal with narcotic drugs and that there was a group of Nigerian nationals who gave them the drugs. According to him, although they did not disclose their names, the police force in collaboration with other security organs managed to identify those persons who were in communication. On April 21, 2019, he said, the police got information that the Nigerians were at Kariakoo. “We managed to arrest Ogwuanyi, who, after interrogation, admitted to have been dealing with narcotic drugs. He led the police to a room along Pemba Street, where another Nigerian, Ogbu was arrested. Upon searching the room, we found some bags with substances suspected to be narcotic drugs,” he said.