NATIONAL Under-17 football team, Serengeti Boys face a must win test against Uganda Cubs in their second match of the 2019 U-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Both teams started the competition on a wrong footing after losing their opening matches. Serengeti Boys suffered a disappointing 5-4 defeat from Nigeria, while debutants Uganda Cubs lost 1-0 at the hands of Angola in their respective group A encounters at the same venue on Sunday. The first match today will see Nigeria taking on Angola at the same venue with each side eager to be the first team to cruise into the semifinals of the competition. Despite launching their campaign on a back pedal, Serengeti Boys fought brilliantly against the Nigerians, who are making ninth appearance in the contest and have since won it twice. The home team went down 3-1 at half time but came into the second half refreshed scoring three goals within seven minutes to lead their opponents 4-3. A boy of the moment Kelvin John was the one who opened the goal gates for Serengeti Boys early in the last half whose long range right footed missile left Nigeria goalkeeper Suleiman Shaibu stranded at his guardian territory. Other players who had a massive game on the day include skipper Morice Abraham, who scored the third goal through a spot kick, Edmund John, who netted the first brace of the thrilling competition. Basing on the first match, it is evident that Serengeti Boys lost the battle due to lack of experience since their opponents Nigeria are regular package in this tournament. However, still on the experience level, the home side will have an upper hand to pocket their first crucial three points today bearing in mind that Uganda Cubs are the new comers of the eight-team contest. The country’s representatives made their U-17 AFCON debut in 2017 in Gabon where they were eliminated in group stages but this time around, they aim to play in the competition’s FIFA World Cup feast to be held in Brazil late this year. Any unconvincing results to either Serengeti Boys or Uganda Cubs will officially see them kissing the tournament goodbye just waiting to play their third and final encounter of fulfilling the lined up fixture. However, Tanzanians will be interested to see goal keeping improvement today, which left a lot to be desired during the opening clash. Head Coach Oscar Milambo admitted at a post-match briefing that his side has to fix goal keeping problems should they want to reach further in the event. “I am sure that the concerned department will rectify goalkeeping shortfalls which emerged today (Sunday) ahead of the upcoming two essential fixtures,” Milambo said. This was not the first time for the coach to comment on his side’s goalkeeping hiccups as he did the same after the end of the special Invitational football competition held recently in Kigali, Rwanda where Serengeti Boys emerged champions. Two top teams will emerge from each group to meet in the semifinals before witnessing the finals slated for April 28th at the National Stadium. Defending champions Mali missed to be part of this year’s contest as they failed to qualify hence the title is going to have new bearers from any of the eight competing teams.