THE government has assured to continue creating an enabling environment for research institutions to professionally undertake their activities and abide by laws of the country. Vice-President (VP), Samia Suluhu Hassan said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the government recognised the importance of researches in strengthening development efforts in the country. The VP was speaking at the opening of the 24th annual research workshop organised by Policy Research for Development (Repoa), which aimed at provoking and promoting policy dialogue and research on local economic development as a viable policy strategy in economic transformation. She said policy dialogue was important for boosting the country’s capacity to conduct researches and policy dialogue, whose recommendations would be considered in policy formulation. “It is difficult for the country to have good plans for promoting a competitive economy without sufficient researches,” Ms Hassan said. She called on researchers in the country to focus on studies that would facilitate the government to attain its development objectives. With the theme ‘Local Economic Development: Unpacking potentials for accelerated transformation of Tanzania’, the workshop focused on how local authorities could help their people identify and utilise resources available in their localities to promote economic development. Ms Hassan said the Second Five Year National Development Plan had also taken into consideration public involvement in economic development. She said the plan had identified system reforms to empower local government authorities and people to identify and utilise local resources to transform the economy in their localities. She said researches on such areas would enable the government to formulate appropriate policies, measure its implementation results, find better ways of making government plans basing on science and technological changes. “The government will continue monitoring the results of various researches so that it can focus on its objectives, address policy gaps to attain the industrial driven economy.” For his part, Danish Ambassador to Tanzania, Einer Jensen called upon the government to continue creating a space and good environment for think-tanks and independent resources to operate and contribute to the transformation agenda. “Independent think-tanks can provide an important resource to enable the government to better understand some challenges and opportunities and source informed choices on issues of domestic and international concern,” he said. Mr Jensen, however, noted that the theme of this year’s workshop was useful in finding answers to problems related to sustainable development of any country, including Tanzania. Earlier, Repoa Executive Director, Dr Donald Mmari, said his organisation had continued contributing to policy development and various strategies for the promotion of the country’s welfare.