THE Minister for Tourism and Natural Resources, Hamisi Kigwangalla is expected to grace this year’s Ngorongoro Race to be held here today. Minister Kigwangalla is also anticipated to participate in the 21 kilometres race from Ngorongoro to Rhotia just as he did in the last year event. According to organisers, more than 1,000 athletes will be taking part in the Ngorongoro Half Marathon, which will be flagged off at Loduare Gate in Ngorongoro, covering 21 kilometres down to Karatu, passing through the townand on to Rotia Hill, then turn to Karatu again, where the finishing point is erected at Mazingira Bora grounds. Anybody planning to stay in Karatu this weekend better seek alternative abode because the 2019 edition of Ngorongoro Run has filled the town’s hotels and lodges with guests, officials and athletes alike. For the main 21 kilometres’ race, the winners stand to get 1m/- in prizes for both male and female categories. The first runners-up are to be awarded 500,000/- each, while the third winners will pocket 300,000/- each. Organised by Meta Sports Promotion, the race is sponsored by the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority and as usual, targets to promote tourism attractions in Ngorongoro including Olduvai Gorge, Laetoli, the Crater as well as the war against poaching and illegal harvesting of natural resources. An official from Athletics Tanzania (AT), who is also the race coordinator, Meta Petro said all preparations are ready for the event which gets flagged off at 6.00 am on Saturday of the 20th of April 2019 by the Minister. On his part, the Secretary General of Arusha Athletics Association (AAA) Alfred Shahanga said the Ngorongoro Race also aims at identifying and recruiting new talents, who are going to compete leg-byleg with professionals as well as other runners from neighbouring countries. During the last year’s Ngorongoro Race event, Kenyans topped the race; in the form of Joseph Mbatha, who won the race having used an hour, four minutes and 54 seconds. He, however, did not beat the 2017’s first winner, Faraja Lazaro (JKT), who used 1 hour, 3 minutes and 42 seconds in 2017. Another Kenyan, Benard Mussa (1:05:09) completed the race in the second position. The Tanzanian who made it into the top 3 was, Paschal Mombo (1:06:05) from Hanang’ who came in the third position. In ladies’ category, it was Monica Cheruto from Kenya (1:18:07), who topped the bill last year, followed by Failuna Abdi from Tanzania (1:18:20) in the second position and Fadhila Salumu also from Tanzania (1:19:58), in the third position.