PEOPLE working in mines in Simanjiro District have been told to avoid conflicts in their respective areas; otherwise their licences will be revoked. Simanjiro District Mining Officer, Mr Daudi Ntalima told the miners here recently that their duty is mining and not steering conflicts, saying that those who will entertain the latter will have to leave so that areas are apportioned to other people since demand is big. He said that there are some miners who fight those who discover mine deposits so that they can take over the area. He said after discovery, the miner who discovers the deposits should report to the respective office so that the ministry responsible for minerals can issue a mining licence. “There is a local investor, Mr God Mwanga, a graphite miner who had an area at Kimwengani and possessed a valid licence, but some people who believe they know more about mining business have engineered an unnecessary conflict. Why do that? We will not tolerate this anymore,” said Mr Ntalima. Mr Ntalima noted that his office will deal against miners who cause conflict in the rich mining district, saying he wants everybody to get their rights, work hard for their own development as well as the country’s economy. “President John Magufuli has already offered you opportunities to mine and sell what you get, but instead of tapping the opportunity and benefit from the good market we are setting, you engage in unending conflicts. I assure you that we will revoke your licences so that you go and mine in other areas,” said Mr Ntalima. Manyara Region Miners Association (Marema) Chairman, Mr Justin Nyari, called upon miners to cooperate with the government in their work instead of fuelling conflicts. He hailed Mr Ntalima, saying that he was working in transparency and great skills, urging miners to collaborate with him. A tanzanite miner, Ms Mwanaidi Kimu, echoed the sentiments of the two officials, saying it was uncalled to fuel conflicts instead of putting efforts in mining. She said it was time to work hard to make ends meet.