PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday stopped District Executive Directors (DEDs) in all cashew growing areas against demanding the crop levy from farmers due their failure to properly supervise the purchase plan that could offer reasonable prices. Dr Magufuli said the government decided to buy the raw cashew nuts at 3,300/- per kilogramme in the last marketing season to ensure that farmers benefit from the produce. He was addressing Naliandele residents on the second day of his three-day working tour of Mtwara region prior to laying the foundation stone for the construction of Newala-Mtwara-Masasi road at tarmac level. The government intervention to purchase the cash crop aimed at rescuing the cashew growers from the hands of manipulative buyers who had offered meagre prices. “The government cannot buy cashew nuts at 3,300/- per kilogramme and then start paying the crop levy to councils, which have failed to facilitate marketing of the cash crop,” President Magufuli insisted. He added that none of the council from cashew nuts growing regions will be provided with even a single cent as crop levy, “If you wanted to collect levies, you should have properly coordinated the crop marketing to ensure farmers are offered good prices.” The president faulted the council directors and chairmen, cooperatives societies and the Cashewnut Board of Tanzania (CBT) for failure to oversee the crop purchase plan, subjecting farmers to exploitation, as a result. He said CBT had proposed 1,500/- per kilogramme without considering how much farmers have toiled and their expenses in producing the crop.He accused cooperative societies in Mtwara region of being part of exploitative network against farmers instead of assisting them. Dr Magufuli said the government took the loan from Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) for procurement of the cash crop and shield farmers from exploitation, insisting that the government will not take another loan to pay the crop levy to the councils. He instead urged the councils to start planning for the next marketing season to enable farmers to get good prices and collect the crop levies as well. President Magufuli charged that although the prices of the cash crop in the world market had dropped, it was not an excuse to exploit farmers. During the first day of his working tour of the region on Tuesday, the president ordered payment of 50bn/- to 18,103 cashew nut farmers, including middlemen—Kangombas—in Mtwara region. Meanwhile, President Magufuli yesterday issued stern warning against contractors and consultants undertaking various projects in the country, directing them to improve performance or risk contract termination. He said he was not pleased with the slow pace of construction works on a 50-kilometre stretch of Newala-Mtwara-Masasi road, directing the project contractor to work day and night to complete the job. “We cannot wait for construction of the 50-kilometre section for three years while the country’s trunk roads alone are 35,000 kilometres besides regional, district and feeder roads,” Dr Magufuli charged. He said that the government has disbursed over 80bn/- for construction of the road section at tarmac level, directing the Works, Transport and Communication Ministry to ensure that the contractor was not awarded another tender before completing the ongoing work. President Magufuli ordered the ministry through the Contractors Registration Board to observe the Contractors Registration Act Number 17 of 1997 by holding accountable underperforming contractors. He said Tanzania has more than 8,500 registered contractors and they should be monitored and the underperforming deregistered