THE Court of Appeal has rejected an appeal by District Executive Director (DED) Kilwa District Council, challenging a High Court judgment of payments for over 400m/- for breach of a contract on construction of abattoir at Kilwa Masoko, Lindi Region. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Richard Mziray and Ferdinand Wambali ruled in favour of the construction firm, Bogeta Engineering Limited, as respondent, after “striking out the appeal with costs for being time barred.” They agreed with the submissions presented in court by Advocate Francis Stolla, for the respondent, that the appeal was filed out of the required time, thus, contravened the provisions of Section 90 (1) and (2) of the Tanzania Court of Appeal Rules, 2009. The justices said an appellant must lodge his appeal within 60 days from the date when the notice of appeal is lodged and can be exempted from such requirement, where he has not obtained copy of proceedings from the High Court and applied them within 30 days from the date of impugned decision. Furthermore, they said, the High Court Registrar must have issued a certificate of delay indicating the number of days that were required or used to prepare and deliver the copy to the appellant, in order to entitle him to the exclusion of those days in computing time within which the appeal has to be lodged. More importantly, the justices also observed, the appellant could not be entitled to rely on the exception to the provision of sub-rule (1) of Rule 90 of the Rules, unless he has made the application in writing and served the same upon the respondent. “In the instant appeal, we have no doubt, as per submissions of the counsel for the parties and record of appeal, that there is no evidence that the appellant applied to the Registrar of High Court in writing to be supplied with a copy of proceedings and copied and served the letter to the respondent,” they ruled. What was in the record of appeal and the original record, they noted, was the purported certificate of delay issued by the Deputy Registrar in Charge at Mtwara, excluding the days from February 10, 2016 to April 14, 2016 alleged to have been used to prepare and deliver the copy of the decree to the appellant. “We think that the purported certificate of delay cannot be valid. We hold this view because there is no evidence of any letter to the Registrar of the High Court in which the appellant applied to be supplied with either the proceedings or the rectification of a decree,” the justices said. They, thus, found that the certificate of delay was invalid and could not entitle the DED to rely on Rule 90 (1) of the Rules to escape the time limit of 60 days within which the appellant was supposed to lodge the appeal, after the decision of the High Court delivered on February 2, 2016 as submitted by Mr Stolla. “Therefore, the appeal which was filed on June 10, 2016 was out of time for 113 days. It follows that the Court cannot entertain the appeal, which has been lodged out of time, while no extension of time has been sought and granted by the appellant,” the justices ruled. During the hearing of the appeal, Mr Godfrey Baraza, who is District Council Solicitor representing the DED, had invited the Court to apply the overriding objective principle introduced in the Appellant Jurisdiction Act by Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) No. 3 Act, 2018 so that the appeal is heard on merits. In their ruling, however, the justices pointed out that the issue of limitation touched on jurisdiction of the Court, insisting on compliance of mandatory requirement of lodging an appeal within the prescribed time goes in tandem with facilitating the just determination of the matter in accordance with the law. “The Court cannot have jurisdiction to entertain appeal which is time barred and no extension of time has been sought and granted. We think the issue of time limit is not a technicality, which goes against the just determination of case or undermines application of overriding objective principle,” they said. Before the High Court at Mtwara, the respondent company had sued the DED in which she prayed for declaration to the effect that the contract between them had been breached by the appellant. As a result, she prayed to be awarded damages and interest for delayed payments. The High Court, having heard the evidence of the parties, entered judgment in favour of the respondent requiring the DED to pay them 259m/- as principal sum with interests. Such amount has accrued to 460m/- as of todate.