KAGERA Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime has boasted that his charges were in high mood and promised to upset Simba’s title bid, when the two sides meet at the Kaitaba Stadium today. Bukoba town is buzzing ahead of the Mainland Premier League battle involving teams from different ends in the league. Simba arrived in Bukoba Municipality by Air Tanzania yesterday morning and were received by hundreds of football fans, who escorted them with a long procession along Uganda road to Stella Hotel, a few kilometres from Bukoba town. Simba were scheduled to hold a brief training session later in the evening at Kaitaba Stadium. Simba, who are the defending champions are chasing the top two packs. They are currently settled third on 60 points from 23 games, and still have nine more games to play before equalling the number of matches with league leaders, Young Africans, who have played 32 games. Only 14 points separate the Msimbazi Street giants with their traditional rivals Yanga, who have garnered 74 points. The Msimbazi Reds are just six points adrift second placed Azam, who have also played 32 outings. Simba will be hunting for 12th back to back victory in the league and will come into the match fresh from their hard fought 2-1 win over Coastal Union at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Wednesday. Speaking after the game against Coastal Union Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the 11th straight victory has created a unique record at the club and that they are now working on a plan to register the 12th win this weekend in Bukoba, in a game against Kagera Sugar. Kagera Sugar, on the other hand, are relegated haunted on 17th position with 36 points from 32 matches. They have won eight games, drawn 12 and lost 12 matches. And, going into today’s encounter, Maxime vowed that they will stop Simba no matter what in a bid to crawl away from the relegation zone. “The team has been training hard for the much-awaited encounter. We are prepared to repeat what we performed during 2016/17 season,” said Maxime. In 2017, Simba’s campaign to win the top flight title suffered a big blow following a 2-1 loss to Kagera Sugar at Kaitaba Stadium. Simba, who hoped to regain the helm by beating the hosts, saw their title hopes whisked away after a painful loss. Maxime is confident that his team will put up a spirited fight in the remaining five matches and escape relegation. My players are in high spirits and will collect maximum points in the remaining matches. Football is a tricky game,” he said. Maxime said the matches will be tough, but urged Kagera fans to continue supporting the team. “We are still confident of winning the remaining matches. Kagera fans must be patient. Football is a tricky game...there are teams which conceded many goals,” he said citing Brazil, winners of the 1958, 1962, 1970,1994 and 2002 World Cup who were humiliated 7-1 at the semi-final stage by Germany in the World Cup they hosted four years ago. According to Maxime, the team will miss two key players including Captain George Kavila, who sustained injuries and custodian Jeremiah Kisubi who collected two yellow cards.