ALMOST two years since Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa launched the National Apprenticeship and Internship Guidelines, the government has provided training to 6,455 youths in concerted efforts to reduce unemployment in the country. According to the Director of Employment in the ministry of State in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled, Ally Msaki, so far there are almost 3,000 youths in the ministry’s database who have acquired skills in the development projects and ready for employment, besides possessing experience to work for any institution. He made the speech during a seminar to Members of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Constitution, while providing feedback on the achievements that have been obtained since the programme kicked off. Earlier, the programme was launched by the Prime Minister in an event that was also attended by ILO Director for Tanzania, Kenya, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda, Ms Mary Kawar. Equally, the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE), in collaboration with other key Stakeholders in Dodoma joined hands to officially launch its guidelines. The Guidelines aimed at among others to promote, manage, and coordinate and monitor workplace based on trainings and improve quality of work in the country. The plan also aims at addressing unemployment crisis in the country, according to Mr Msaki. However, recent figures from the National Bureau of Statistics show that people with high skills in the country constitute only 3.6per cent against the required target of 12per cent. The data unveils further that those with medium skills are 16.6per cent against the target of 34 percent, while those with low skills are pegged at 79.9 percent against the required percent of 54 percent. The rate of unemployment among the youth remains relatively high at 11.7 per cent. Unemployment study in Tanzania, published in 2014 indicates that only 20.1 per cent of employed staff had competence skills with a whopping 79.9 per cent working without the needed skills.