YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera conceded that the brief standoff between players and management of the club has amicably been resolved. Yanga play Azam FC in an explosive Mainland Premier League clash at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow, which happens to be their first meeting of the unfolding season. It will be the battle between league toppers Yanga and third placed Azam, who were recently dislodged from their second place post by Simba, the position they enjoyed for a good period of time. Pocketing three points in tomorrow’s match will be a big boost for the two sides as they aim to bounce back into the league positively after suffering defeats in their past assignments. Yanga suffered a 1-0 defeat from Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro, whereas Azam were the victims of 1-0 slump from Mtwara based Ndanda FC at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium respectively. The drop of vital points, on the other hand, cleared the way for defending champions Simba, who have garnered six points from possible nine points after playing three matches. The Msimbazi giants lost 2-1 at Kagera Sugar before thrashing Alliance FC 2-0 and KMC 2-1 orderly to continue climbing the ladders at the top of the 20-team table and pile pressure on the league leaders Yanga. However, both teams seem to have put much of their focus on the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), which they simultaneously qualified into the semifinals and there is a possibility for them to meet in the finals. Yanga will take on Lipuli FC at Samora Stadium in Iringa, while Azam face KMC in the ASFC last four clashes whose ultimate winner act as the county’s flag bearer in CAF Confederation Cup competition. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Zahera said he is happy to see that both parties have reached an agreement and that preparations for tomorrow’s encounter are on front gear. “All the players had a meeting with the management of the club yesterday (Friday) and have understood each other to the extent that training sessions have resumed prior to our game on Monday,” Zahera said. On his part, the team’s Vice Captain Juma Abdul said they never boycotted training sessions as earlier reported by various media platforms only that they were seeking to have open discussions with management. “As I speak now, everything is well since we had a fruitful meeting with the management whom we consider as our parents and turn to whenever we have problems. We are now focusing on the game against Azam on Monday,” Abdul said. Yanga’s centre back and former captain Kelvin Yondani will miss Azam tie as he is still serving his three match suspension after picking a red card against Kagera Sugar which ended 3-2. On the other hand, Azam will be without captain Aggrey Morris, who also was shown a red card during their narrow 1-0 victory over Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. However, from the outside box point of view, Yanga’s back line will probably be the busiest tomorrow as they will be trying to contain their former strikers Donald Ngoma and Obrey Chirwa. The two hitmen are likely going to be lethal for Yanga as they aim to show their potential to their former teammates and bosses. Chirwa was once quoted saying he really wants to score against Yanga. He said this during the previous edition of Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar after contributing one goal when his side defeated Yanga B which was deployed for the competition. “I did not celebrate after scoring because my aim is to score against the senior Yanga team which has remained in Dar es Salaam. This is not the real Yanga squad,” Chirwa said after the match.