UNDEFEATED Namungo FC are just five games away from securing their first ever Mainland Premier League promotion, as they top First Division League (FDL), group A with 37 points to their name. The Lindi based side sit comfortably eight points clear at the summit of tricky group hence a good indicator that they are approaching to knock at the country’s top flight league door come next season. Out of 17 matches played, Namungo have won ten games and registered seven draws to remain the only undefeated team so far in the FDL campaign. However, their massive performance in FDL has not come on the silver plate as they heavily strengthened their squad prior to the beginning of the league, which saw big names like Mbaraka Yussuf and others landing at the club to help it step into the country’s 20-team elite league. As FDL continues this weekend with explosive fixtures in different venues countrywide for the 18th round, Mbeya Kwanza are second on the ladder with 29 points after 17 outings and should they maintain their perfect form, Mbeya region will for the first time be represented by three teams in the league. Njombe Mji, who were relegated last season are not very far from winning a ticket to reappear in the Mainland Premier League as they occupy third slot with 28 points, just one point behind Mbeya Kwanza. Placed fourth on the table is Mlale FC, who have 27 points whereas Friends Rangers are glued to fifth place after pocketing 26 points from 17 clashes. Mawenzi Market are sixth with 25 points, five points above seventh placed Mufindi United who have garnered 20 points. Reha FC and Majimaji FC both have attained 18 points but only goal difference separates the two sides and in this case, the former have scored more than the latter to occupy eighth and ninth places respectively. Ashanti United are tenth on the log with 13 points, a point above Kiluvya United with 12 points to their name. However, the road seems bumpy for bottom placed Dar City who have 10 points and have so far won one game, lost nine and drawn seven games in the process.