e-GOVERNMENT Agency (eGA) has developed an Enterprise Resource Management Suite (ERMS) for effective execution of e-government. eGA Chief Executive Officer, Dr Jabiri Bakari told reporters here yesterday that the new suite consolidates and streamlines various business functions and resources of an organisation. “The ERMS is a shared business management system that integrates and manages end to end institutional business processes and functions seamlessly,” said Dr Bakari. He said the agency decided to develop ERMS to bring in depth of the digital expertise to deliver a system that is capable of managing various business activities of a public institution into a single window. “Our focus was the system that could connect and integrate various functions of an organisational business processes to improve operational efficiency and effectiveness, cutting operational costs as well as rendering quality public services in real time manner,” said Dr Bakari. He added that the new system comprises of 18 applications that integrate multiple interdependent business functions to facilitate data sharing across the departments and sections of the institution. Others are day to day management of institutional resources, including human, finances and facilities, transaction handling among business unit like billing for products and services, accounting expenditure and revenue generation. Furthermore, he said, the new developed system provides a customisable dashboard that accounting officers and other users of the system can access and generate various reports as per their requirements. “They are ranging from periodic financial statements, itemised budget and fund balances, statuses of resource usage, providing inputs for appraisal of employees’ performances, all of which facilitate operational and management decisions,” he said. The new system is further designed to integrate and share data with any other government information system like the Central Accounting System, Human Capital Management Information System, Government e-Payment Gateway and Government Mailing System, among others. Dr Bakari commended public institutions that have embraced the use of home grown ICT solutions that address the institutional requirements, with less development cost and time, easily adaptable to technological changes with low cost of ownership. He was quick to alert that users should be guided by the standards and guidelines issued by eGA when implementing ICT solutions. “All we need is relevant skills, confidence and focus on quality results for national development, eGA will continue to provide e-government advisory and technical support to public institutions,” he assured.