NATIONAL women football team, Twiga Stars is determined to kick off the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games campaign on a right note tomorrow. Twiga Stars launch its long to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games by hosting the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow in the first leg qualifiers. The return leg of the first round will take place in Kinshasa on April 9th this year. Winner of the match between Twiga Stars and DR Congo will progress into the second round of the qualifiers and face Equatorial Guinea. However, Equatorial Guinea have been banned by FIFA and are not eligible to compete in Olympics, meaning winner of the Twiga versus DRC tie will likely get a bye to the third round. In 2017, FIFA expelled Equatorial Guinea from the 2019 Women’s World Cup for using fake documents and selecting at least 10 ineligible players in its Olympic team. In a previous related case, FIFA banned Equatorial Guinea’s women from the 2020 Olympic qualifying programme. That decision related to a Brazil-born player who had two passports and two birth certificates with personal details that did not match. And, ahead of the game against DR Congo, Twiga Stars’ Head Coach Bakari Shime remained confident that his charges will emerge victorious. “The players are in good shape ready to confront the Congolese,” Shime said, adding that the objective is to launch their campaign on a positive note. Shime picked 27-member squad for the qualifiers. The players have been in camp in Dar es Salaam shaping up for the clash. The squad had Fatuma Omar (JKT Queens), Najiath Abbas (JKT Queens), Gelwa Yona (Kigoma Sisters), Wema Maile (Mlandizi Queens), Maimuna Kaimu (JKT Queens). Enekia Kasonga (Alliance Queens), Fatuma Maonyo (Evergreen), Fatuma Salumu (JKT Queens), Happyness Mwaipaja (JKT Queens), Stumai Abdallah (JKT Queens) and Anastazia Katunzi (JKT Queens). The list also has Fatuma Bushir (JKT Queens), Zena Rashid (JKT Queens), Grace Mbelay (Yanga Princess), Mwanahamis Shurua (Simba Queens), Donisia Minja (JKT Queens), Asha Shaban (Kigoma Sisters), Asha Rashid (JKT Queens). Others are Amina Ally (Simba Queens), Irene Kisisa (Kigoma Sisters), Fatuma Mustapha (JKT Queens), Dotto Tossy (Simba Queens), Aisha Masaka (Alliance Queens), Ester Gindlya (Alliance Queens), Tausi Salehe (Mlandizi Queens), Niwael Makuruta (Marsh academy) and Amina Abdallah (Simba Queens).