ENERGY Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani has directed contractors who are carrying out the projects of supplying electricity to rural areas through Rural Energy Agency (REA) to give top priority to facilities providing social services while undertaking REA III programme. The minister issued the directive here yesterday while commissioning electricity service at Buigiri Secondary School in Buigiri Village, citing the priority institutions as schools, hospitals, mosques, churches and boreholes to pump water. “Facilities providing social services should first get connected with electricity after the rural areas have received electricity to expedite social development in the areas,” said the minister during the event. He was on working tour of the villages to switch on electricity for the first time in areas that had just received electricity in Chamwino District and inspect progress of the projects to supply electricity to the villages executed by a contractor, A2Z Infra Engineering Limited. Likewise, the minister said Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) should immediately open offices in the rural areas, which have just received electricity to enable the households get connected with the service. “The households should immediately start making payment for electricity connection after seeing electric pylons in the villages,” he observed. Dr Kalemani said the government pegged the electricity service connection charge for rural dwellers at 27,000/- to have all villagers connected to the service, saying the households can start paying in installments to get connected with electricity service. He said there was a growing trend of some people in the rural areas to sabotage electricity infrastructure, saying every member of the public should play role to safeguard the electricity infrastructure. On his part, Member of Parliament (MP) for Chilonwa, Mr Joel Mwaka, expressed gratitude to the government for supplying electricity to the villages which had no such service since independence. He noted that so far 20 of 47 villages in Chamwino District have received electricity since the government started to implement REA III programme, noting that the service has helped to promote social and economic development in the areas.