THE UK based Credit Suisse bank has assured Tanzania government that it will continue cooperating with it, besides providing the country with loans to implement various domestic projects. The bank’s Marketing Director, Ms Elizabeth Muchemi told the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango that Tanzania is among countries that have been making a good use of the loans from her bank, adding that they are satisfied with the trend of the country in paying back the loans, and quality of projects being implemented. She made the assurance while meeting Dr Mpango during the Spring Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund. According to Ms Muchemi, some countries have been seeking loans from them, but fail to utilise them as indicated in the loans’ application forms. “Unlike Tanzania, some countries have been seeking loans from the bank, but things end up contrary to the projects as indicated in the loans application forms,” she pointed out. The bank’s Marketing Director further said that Tanzania has succeeded in implementing several development projects by observing and maintaining quality, which have proved beyond doubt that the government utilises the borrowed funds as stipulated in their development projects. Recently, Credit Suisse bank provided 200m US dollars loan to Tanzania for the implementation of various development projects, cited as construction of roads and railway. “We are ready to continue working with the government of Tanzania. The country has strong and implementable strategies, which enable it to pay loans on time. Credit Suisse bank has never come across any problem with Tanzania, and this is good for both of us,” she noted. On his side, Dr Mpango expressed his gratitude to the bank for pledging its support to the government of Tanzania. The meeting was also attended by the Central Bank Governor, Prof Florens Luoga. He said the government is prepared to implement various development projects including construction of roads, electricity infrastructure, railways, improve air and water transportation, construction of oil pipeline from Uganda to Tanga in Tanzania as well as improvement of ports and education infrastructures across the country. He further said that all such mega projects require money that the government is doing everything in its capacity and jurisdiction amicably to achieve.