NATIONAL Under-18 youth basketball team is due to jet home today from Butare, Rwanda after finishing fourth in the just ended Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa (ANOCA) Youth Games. Tanzania who started the three-a-side basketball competition strongly to top group B ahead of Sudan, Burundi and Uganda failed to maintain their form in later stages of the tournament. Their fine form faded in the semifinal battle against mighty Egyptian, who finished second in group A, behind Rwanda. Others in the group were Kenya, South Sudan and Somalia. In the game against Tanzania, the Egyptians registered a 21-1 win, to set up all-group A final showdown with hosts Rwanda. The Tanzanian youths form continued to slump in the third playoff stage when they lost to Uganda 17-8 points to finish fourth in the tournament that brought together nine countries. In the group stages, Tanzania youth team humiliated Uganda with 16-11 points victory. Tanzania youth coach, Robert Manyerere said his team had put a spirited performance to post good results but minor mistakes and lack of international experience let them down. Regardless, Manyerere said they have taken lots of positives from the event, saying the team will improve further in the future tournaments. “It is a wonderful youth team, the rate of performance is fantastic. We now have to continue investing in the team to move forward and look for the future which is bright,” said Manyerere. The multi-discipline competition that started on April 2nd this year and reached its climax on Friday, saw athletes compete in various sports disciplines, which include cycling, athletics, taekwondo, beach volleyball and 3×3 basketball. Tanzania fielded only basketball and athletics teams and the team will return today after visiting Genocide sites yesterday. Athletes and officials from various nations apart from competition also headed to Kigali to join Rwandans in commemoration of the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi and moderate Hutus.