FORMER Nigeria international, Victor Ikpeba said national football team Taifa Stars will be a surprise package in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt, insisting that the impossible is possible. Shortly after the (AFCON) draw held on Friday night in Egypt, Ikpeba described group C that comprises Senegal, Algeria, Kenya and Tanzania tricky. “It is a tricky group because everyone knows that Senegal and Algeria will be the favourites to progress to the next stage but we cannot ignore Tanzania and Uganda.” “Certainly, Tanzania will be a surprise package in this group because of the manager they have. If they can get his philosophy, I believe they will surprise everyone,” Ikpeba said. He said his former teammate Emmanuel Amunike has brought in a lot of belief in Taifa Stars and his experience could bring a major turnaround for Tanzania. Ikpeba said Kenya is another tricky side in this group because they have a leader in Victor Wanyama, who features for English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur. Analysing Senegal and Algeria, Ikpeba said Algeria have not been in their best form lately but said it does not mean that they cannot excel from this group. He said Senegal have also not been consistent with their performance. “Senegal have a great team and the quality of their individual players is enormous but playing as a team is what has always been a problem for them. In fact, since excelling in the 2002 World Cup in Korea and Japan they have struggled to replicate such a team performance,” he said. According to the fixture, Taifa Stars will begin their campaign by taking on Senegal on June 23rd before confronting Kenya on June 27th, while their last match in the group will be against Algeria on July 1st. Several Taifa Stars players have positively reacted on the draw. Through social media interviews, Stars’ goal poacher Thomas Ulimwengu, who plays professional football at JS Saoura in Algeria, said the group is fair for them and they just need to work hard to step into the quarter finals. “Each team apart from the hosts Egypt will be away from home meaning that we all have equal chances to progress into the next round,” Ulimwengu said. He added that the hard part at this stage of the competition is that you only play a total of three matches for nine points hence there is no home or away system as it was the case during the concluded AFCON group stages. “We have potential to do well only if we prepare well prior to the Egypt mission,” he said. On his part, another prolific Stars’ player Simon Msuva said he is happy with the group because he wanted to meet with big teams to get experience and learn from them.