AS part of its continued efforts to execute eight initiatives of the 2018 Beijing summit of the Forum on China- Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), China has established an institute that will enhance mutual learning between the two parts. Dubbed China-Africa Institute, the centre is set to play part as an exchange platform by engaging academic exchange between Africa and China, deepening mutual understanding and promoting people to people communication. The institute is also expected to become a base for organising collaborative research programme to facilitate China-Africa Cooperation in Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) construction and a hub to gather talents and train high-end professionals for the bilateral ties. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ shortly after the institute launch, Tanzania’s Ambassador to China, Mbelwa Kairuki said the institute has created many opportunities that Tanzanians can explore for the greater interest of the country and cooperation between the two countries. Ambassador Kairuki said with the institute, members of academic staffs from Tanzania may conduct relevant researches that educate wananchi on the ongoing BRI projects and those to be implemented in future. “So it’s a great opportunity that is open for many countries in Africa and I would encourage our scholars in Tanzania to make better use of it,” said the diplomat. Present at the event, Senior Lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam who is also Director of the Centre for Chinese Studies, Prof Humphrey Moshi welcomed the institute, saying it will help to enhance people’s understandings on the cooperation that Tanzania and China have enjoyed for years. “It’s high time members of the academic staff in Tanzania participated fully to the China-Africa cooperation by giving out the well-researched findings that will help to improve the outcomes of our cooperation,” he said. He commended China for quickening the establishment of the institute that has come just eight months after Chinese President Xi Jinping made the promise late September last year. “This proves that they are very serious on implementing development projects,” added Prof Moshi. Earlier, on his remarks that were read by the Director of Foreign Affairs Commission of the Communist Part of China (CPC) Mr Yang Jieshi, President Xi said China and Africa need to strengthen inter- civilisation mutual learning, which will not only benefit people from the two parts but also contribute to world peace and development. “The current world is undergoing dramatic change and I hope that the institute will make great contributions to China-Africa relations,” said the Chinese President in the letter. During the event, former Mozambican President Joaquim Chissano said the initiative will rapidly boost development in Africa. “Despite criticism about the way China is conducting some projects in Africa, it’s clear that their development on win-win cooperation paradigm have the potential of addressing the current social and economic stratification, which is the major source of instability and inequality on the continent,” he noted.