Fountain Gate Academy has awarded scholarships to four players from the National U-17 team ‘Serengeti Boys. Through the offer, they can now attend secondary education at various schools run by the institution. The four Serengeti Boys players, joining the Fountain Gate training stable are John Makonga, Khalifa Said Kambaya and Abdul Omary all aged 15 and Nurdin Mohammed who is aged 16. According to the institution’s Public Relations Officer Ahadi Mtweve, the boys will be attending Ordinary level studies at Azimio Secondary School in Dodoma, from Form One to Four, as well as undergo special sports training, at the academy while also remaining loyal to their National team’s schedules. The Fountain Gate Foundation operates schools and special academies in Dodoma and Dar es Salaam regions. The Fountain Gate Academy Director, Japhet Makau explained that the Fountain Gate institution will entirely sponsor the four youth’s education and training sessions out of its own funds. “The Fountain Gate Academy aims at setting trend on how local institutions can and should support the national team representatives especially the youth envoys,” said Makau, adding the four candidates are aged below 17 years of age. Meanwhile the Fountain Gate Academy has organised and hosted a four-day training session for young football coaches, held at the institution’s premises in Dodoma. The training was conducted by FG in conjunction with TFF and in association with UEFA with the trainer Nigel Richardson, with a gathering of 35 coaches hailing from Mara, Mwanza, Arusha, Iringa, Tabora, Dodoma, Mbeya, Morogoro and Dar es Salaam. It was a refresher course for coaches who train youthful soccer players. Six of the trainees came from the Fountain Gate Academy. Deputy Minister in the Vice President’s Office (Environment) Musa Sima, advised all coaches undergoing the training to impart same knowledge to all trainers in Primary and Secondary school teachers and students to boost sports in the institutions