LOCAL Government Authorities (LGAs) have important role to play in promoting economic growth as the country strives to attain an industrial driven economy. LGAs can stimulate economic development through helping small and medium entrepreneurs to identify and utilise primarily local resources in order to transform economy within their localities. Briefing journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday about the 24th Annual Research Workshop which will be held in the City this week, Repoa Executive Director Dr Donald Mmari said that local authorities have, to a large extent, managed to involve citizens in identifying development areas basing on their priorities. He said the participation of local communities in considering, planning and implementing their development plans has made some of the important projects successful. Dr Mmari cited the construction of health facilities, primary and secondary schools which have been equipped with important infrastructure being implemented by local authorities in collaboration with citizens. He said it could be difficult for the government to oversee all the projects taking into account the size and population of the country. “We have witnessed major development in the formation of councils which are being involved in provision of services. It could be very difficult to oversee the provision of these services without having the councils,” Dr Mmari observed. Although there were still some challenges but councils have helped to strengthen supervision in provision of education and health services. Themed “Local Economic Development: Unpacking potentials for accelerated transformation of Tanzania” the workshop will focus on how local authorities can help their people in identifying and utilising resources available in their localities to promote economic development. He added that the LGAs can also participate in creating conducive business and investment environment to attract small and medium companies to invest in their localities in order to transform their economy. Dr Mmari said according to statistics, the country’s economy has been growing but it has not brought impact in some areas thus why the workshop will focus on economic development at council, village and street levels and society in general.