WITH the whole country citizens and friends rallying behind them, the national women football team, Twiga Stars today officially launched the country’s Tokyo Olympic Games campaign by hosting the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Twiga Stars must take the match seriously to ensure that they win by a big margin to make their return leg match in Kinshasa on April 9th, a downhill task. Clearing DR Congo hurdle has double benefit to Stars since it will give them a walkover to the third round, because their second round opponents; Equatorial Guinea, have been banned by FIFA and are not eligible to compete in the Olympics, a situation that makes the winner of the Twiga versus DRC clash to get a bye to the third round. Twiga Stars are our envoys hence all of us must support them to ensure that they beat their opponents and advance. Basing on the system of qualification and the tough opponents Twiga Stars are to face, it is clear that our envoys have a steep mountain to climb for them to make it to the next round of the competition(s). While our envoys will be at the pitch today, the best from us to them is a maximum support from the public. If Twiga Stars is supported, we believe it can wage a successful war and challenge their mighty opponents. This match should make players recall their heroic performance that saw Tanzania qualifying for the African Nations Women Championship finals for the first time in the country’s history in 2010. In 2010 Twiga Stars made history and the local ladies were in fabulous form throughout their qualifying campaign, scoring 15 goals in four matches, while conceding just six goals. They thrashed Ethiopia 3-1 away in Addis Ababa, before posting a 1-1 draw in Dar es Salaam. Next opponent was Eritrea, who succumbed to 8-1 thrashing in Dar es Salaam but forced a 3-3 draw in Asmara. Such results underlined that Twiga Stars qualification bid and did not come as a fluke. It came out of the determination and desire to achieve the best for the country. We end up by reminding players that the whole nation is behind them and we wish them success and good luck.