NMB Bank share has been trading below analysts’ present valuation despite the lender to recorded pleasing performance last year. The bank, the largest lender in term of profitability and agency banking network, share traded 2,340/- before Good Friday against market valuation of 3,000/-. Tanzania Securities said in its commentary on NMB 2018 Financial Results that the lender stock was relatively illiquid on the bourse throughout the last year. “… These results are unlikely to positively impact the liquidity aspect in the near future, save for a situation where the price falls significantly below the present valuation of 3,000/- per share,” the stock brokerage firm said through its commentary issued last week. Orbit Securities said NMB on the other hand remains highly illiquid despite a clear downward pressure. “Looking at market orders and movements, it seems investors value the stock lower than its prevailing prices,” Orbit said in its Q uarter One analysis report. Orbit said with a relative valuation of NMB to its main rival lender of which, by using the Price Earnings (PE) ratios of both banks, an investor would price NMB at 1,060/- against its market value of 2,340/- so as to get the same EPS. Nevertheless, the NMB recorded satisfactory performance last year with flat net profit margin and gross profit margin of 16per cent, same as for 2017 . On the bottom line, the lender listed on Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE), recorded a marginal 5.7 per cent increase in profit to 101bn/- from 95bn/-during the previous year. “As [NMB] continues with expansion of its branch network coupled with the adoption of technology-driven products and services, the expectation will be improved competitiveness and expansion of the customer base, with attendant growth in profitability,” Tanzania Securities said. Despite the bank to open 11 branches last year, the “expansion did not immediately translate into deposits growth”, which was up a mere1.0 per cent compared to14.3 per cent in 2017, the commentary showed. “These results might be followed by a declaration of a marginally higher dividend because the EPS (earning per share) increased only marginally,” the report showed. EPS grew by 5.0 per cent to 201/- from 191/-. The nonperforming loans (NPL) ratio dropped to 5.9 per cent from 6.4per cent, quite close to the regulatory maximum of 5.0 per cent. The lender loan book grew by 17 per cent to 47 0bn/- while the balance sheet, total assets, expanded by only 176bn/- equal to 3.0 per cent. The bank registered growth in deposits by 64bn/- and in shareholders’ funds by 57 bn/- to partly fund the expansion of the balance sheet. Interest income rose marginally 2.5per cent to 600bn/- as non-interest income registered a more impressive increase of 25 per cent to 196bn/-.