THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), has refused to admit and consider an application against death penalty that was adjudged to Dexter Eddie Johnson, who has dual nationality of Ghana and Great Britain. Sitting at Arusha, by majority of eight judges for and two against, the Court dismissed the application in which Ghanaian the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Ms Gloria Afua Akuffo and her team were representing Ghana. The judges, led by President of the Court, Justice Sylvain Ore, said the application did not fulfill the admissibility requirement under Article 56(7), of the Charter that is also reflected in Rule 4O(7), of the Rules. They provide that applications shall be considered if they do not deal with cases that have been settled in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations or the Charter of the Organisation of African Unity or the provisions of the present Charter. Johnson was convicted and sentenced to death for murder and is currently on death row awaiting execution in the case he was represented by Saul Lehrfreund, Co-Executive Director of the Death Penalty Project. On 27th May 2OO4, an American national was killed near the Greater Accra region of Ghana and the applicant, Johnson, was accused of committing the crime and brought to trial. Although he denied the offence, on 18th June 2008, the Fast Track High Court in Accra convicted the Applicant of the murder and sentenced him to death. He appealed his conviction and sentence before the Court of Appeal, arguing that while the death penalty per se is authorised by Article 13(1), of the Constitution of Ghana, the mandatory imposition of the death sentence, on which the Constitution was silent, was unconstitutional. To buttress this assertion, the applicant argued that the mandatory death penalty violates the right not to be subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, and the right not to be arbitrarily deprived of life and the right to a fair trial, all of which are protected by Ghana’s Constitution. On 16th July 2009, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal both on the conviction and sentence and the applicant further pursued his appeal against both the conviction and sentence before the Supreme Court and on 16th March 2011 and the appeal was, again, dismissed. Subsequently, in December 2011 and April 2012, respectively, the applicant made two clemency petitions to the President of Ghana. In July 2012, the applicant filed a communication to the United Nations Human Rights Committee (HRC), under the First Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. On 27th March 2014, the HRC found, in its views, that since the only punishment for murder under Ghanaian law was the death penalty, the courts had no discretion but to impose the only sentence permitted by law. The HRC held that the automatic and mandatory imposition of the death penalty constitutes an arbitrary deprivation of life contrary to Article 6(1), of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), hence, ordered Ghana to provide the applicant with an effective remedy including the commutation of his sentence and adjusts its legislation in line with the provisions of the ICCPR. Ghana has since not done anything, hence Johnson filed the matter with AfCHPR, where the judges said he should go back to seek implementation of HRC.