LACK of regular checkup and environmental pollution are among contributing factors which lead to increased eye diseases facing most Tanzanians. Dr Senkoti Njau from the Tanzania Bilal Muslim Association told the ‘Sunday News’ in an interview that most people risk contracting eye diseases due to predisposing factors, including trauma, genetic and injuries. Other factors include blood pressure, diabetes, glaucoma and trachoma. He said that people aged 40 years and above should make regular checkup of their eye pressure, saying parents, on the other hand, must ensure that they take their children to a nearest health facility when they observe any abnormality on the eyes. Dr Njau cautioned youths to avoid random usage of spectacles without getting proper prescription from a medical expert, saying this could ultimately lead to total blindness and advised people to eat more fruits and vegetables in their daily menu. While in Bukoba Municipality, doctors under the Bilal Muslim Association conducted a special eye clinic camp, where about 5,000 patients turned up for treatment while 96 others were operated on to remove eye cataract. A cataract is a clouding of the eye’s natural lens. Our eyes’ lens is mainly made up of water and protein. The proteins are arranged in such a way that the lens stays clean and light is able to pass through. As we grow older, some of these proteins may clump together and start to cloud a small area of the lens. This is a cataract. Glaucoma is an eye condition in which the optic nerve is damaged, causing vision loss. The optic nerve is located at the back of the eye and transmits the images we see to the brain for interpretation. Glaucoma results in progressive damage to the optic nerve, which almost always begins with a subtle loss of peripheral (side) vision. Diabetic retinopathy is a complication brought on by diabetes where the retina, the light sensitive tissue that lines the inner surface of the eye, is damaged. Diabetes causes abnormal changes in the body’s blood sugar levels. High levels of blood sugar can alter the blood flow to the body’s organs, including the eyes. Worldwide, there are around 160 million people who are visually impaired and have some degree of low vision. Low vision is often characterized by partial sight, such as blurred vision, distorted vision, shadows, blind spots or tunnel vision, but the term also includes legal blindness.