AHEAD of their April 29 match against Y oung Africans, Azam FC have issued warning to the league’s top riders that they have found a formula to win that game. Azam, who are secondplaced in the league table with 66 points, said this week that Zimbabwean import Donald Ngoma and Zambia Obrien Chirwa, who both crossed over from Y anga, have been given all weapons to downside their former masters at the National Stadium on April 29. Azam FC under caretaker Idd Cheche, will meet Y anga in their first league match of this season as the teams didn’t meet in the first round due to fixture reschedules. Both Ngoma and Chirwa were key scorers for Y anga during their career with the club and they have continued to be vital strikers upon joining Azam this season. Both strikers are keen to show their worth to their former employer, something that makes football analysts, to anticipate a tough game on April 29. Y anga, who still command the pilot seat with 74 points from 32-match outing, take Azam FC as a serious threat to their race for the league diadem with only 8 points separating them. Both Y anga and Azam had the black outing in their recent matches. Y anga suffered a 1-0 loss to Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro while Azam also received a 1-0 beating from Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Stadium in Mtwara. Speaking to the media, Azam FC coordinator Philip Alando said they have started training intensively the match against Y anga after giving their players a week rest. “All players have returned and will start training officially tomorrow (today) for the big match. W e have given our players directives and everyone knows what to do during the match. W e know who will do what in making sure our team score goals and win the game,” he said. The last time the teams met was in January during the Mapinduzi Cup tournament in Z anzibar and Azam FC won 3-0. The teams failed to meet in the first round of the Premier League after the match was postponed. The title race until this time when the league has entered a 32nd round Y anga are leading the race with 74 followed by Azam with 66 and the third-placed Simba have reaped 60 points.