...The accuracy rate increased from 81pc in 2015 to 87 pc last year TANZANIA continues to take a lead in improving accuracy of weather forecasts among member states of the East African Community (EAC), thanks to planned installation of two hightech weather radars in Mbeya and Kigoma at a total cost of US $4.994 million dollars (about 11.431bn/-). Accuracy of weather forecasts by TMA has improved from 81 per cent in 2015 to 87 per cent by the end of last year, which is above the global allowed standards of 70 per cent. At present, the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA) has already installed two radars in Mwanza and Dar es Salaam while fitting of radar is ongoing in Mtwara by United States of America’s Enterprise Electronics Corporation (EEC). “The government is committed to improve weather services in the country through procurement and installation of modern radars,” Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Atashasta Nditiye, remarked in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Eng Nditiye was speaking after witnessing the signing of an agreement for purchase and fitting of two radars for Mbeya and Kigoma between TMA and EEC. The two weather detectors will bring the number of radars to five while the target is to have seven radars. The deputy minister explained further that new equipment will enable TMA to cover 95 per cent of weather information countrywide, up from 88 per cent at present. Eng Nditiye was highly optimistic that the National Meteorological Training Institute in Kigoma will produce experts to operate the new radars. The Director General of TMA, Dr Agnes Kijazi, said the new modern radars will have a capacity of detecting meteorological and climatological information in an aerial distance of 450 kilometres and radius distance of 250 kilometres. “After signing of the agreement between TMA and EEC, the next step is finalising payment through a letter of credit,” Dr Kijazi explained. Speaking after the signing, the Managing Director of Infratech Limited, which represents EEC, Mr Edwin Kasanga, said Tanzania is among few countries in Sub-Saharan Africa which have opted for the hightech radars. “The contract will be implemented in a 14-month timeframe. Through the agreement, EEC will be responsible for installing the equipment as well as training of people who will be operating them,” Mr Kasanga explained. He assured the deputy minister that installation of the radar at Mikindani area in Mtwara Region will be completed by August, this year. The fitting of the radar is aimed at boosting accuracy of weather reports in southern regions. The Chairman of TMA’s Advisory Board, Dr Buruhani Nyenzi, expressed gratitude to the government for providing funds to enable the weather agency purchase the new equipment which will improve weather services in the country.