PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday reiterated that his government would intensify the war on illegal fishing in Tanzanian waters and protect the fisheries sector. The President further said the fifth phase government would keep on burning illegal fishing gear to protect fish species for the current and future generations. “Illegal fishing will not do us any good as it only decreases fish species in our waters since they trap even small fish. T is cannot be tolerated by my government,” he emphasised. President Magufuli made the remarks yesterday during his brief address to Migoli Ward residents in Iringa Rural District, when he stopped on his way to Dodoma Region. In February this year during the climax of Law Day President Magufuli launched mobile courts that would provide judicial services especially in the fishing areas, where illegal fishing was alarming. For more than one year now, the ministry has been mounting operations against illegal fishing by arresting the culprits. The operations have been mounted in the Indian Ocean, Lake Victoria, Lake Tanganyika, Mtwara Dam as well as Nyumba ya Mungu Dam, where the culprits were arrested, including 11 councillors. Reacting to Migoli residents’ complaints on health issues, President Magufuli issued a directive to the responsible health minister, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, to set aside 400m/- for the construction of a health facility that would also have a theatre since there was electricity in the area. “I value mothers’ contribution to our society they are the ones, who raised us thus having a theatre is crucial as it will assure them of safe delivery… I will speak to health minister for the money to be disbursed and solve this problem once and for all,” he noted. In another development, President Magufuli advised the residents to consider start growing drought-resistant crops to safeguard food and farming. “I urge you to change your mindsets to cope with climate change. I know most farmers here are used to growing maize, but it’s high time you considered growing finger millet, potatoes and pearl millet, seasons have changed,” he said. Earlier, Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development and Isimani MP William Lukuvi (pictured) said the big challenge in the area was a health centre, where women were most affected especially during pregnancy for they had to deliver their babies outside the available dispensary. “We are grateful for what the government has provided for us. There are more than 18,000 people in this ward with no proper health facility. We ask for your assistance in this one,” he said.