HOSTS Serengeti Boys embarrassingly bowed out of the Total 2019 Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals, following a 4-2 loss to Angola at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Serengeti Boys were looking to end their winless run in the group after losing all their two opening games at the ongoing finals. Oscar Mirambo charges lost the group opener to Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets, following 5-4 defeat last Sunday, before a 3-0 loss at the hands of Uganda Cubs on Wednesday, making their chances to qualify into the semifinals of the tournament complicated. It was third straight defeat for Serengeti Boys in the group A of the finals staged for the first time in Tanzania. Angola finished second in the group on six points, just a point behind Nigeria who played out to a 1-1 draw with Uganda Cubs at the Azam’s Chamazi Complex yesterday. The two matches were played simultaneously. It means, Nigeria and Angola have booked their ticket into the semifinals, and won ticket to the FIFA World Cup scheduled for Brazil later this year. Serengeti Boys end their campaign without a point, much disappointment to many Tanzanians, who had hoped that their team will at least win a ticket into the World Cup finals in Brazil. In the yesterday’s game, Serengeti Boys goals were netted by Omary Omary in the 12th minute and Agiri Ngoda just a minute before the break. Telson Tome had given Angola the lead in the 17th minute and Osvaldo Capemba extended the lead in the 42nd minute through a spot kick. Angola netted other goals in the second half through David Nzanza’s 68th minute strike and Capemba grabbed a brace in the 72nd minute. At the Chamazi Complex, Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets booked a spot in the semi-final after they held Uganda to a 1-1 draw in their last group A clash. The two-time champions who finished top of the standings with seven points from three games also secured the ticket to the 2019 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Brazil as semi-finalists at the African tournament. Alou John scored for the Ugandans, while Ibraheem Jabaar was netted the equaliser for the Golden Eaglets in the game. The Golden Eaglets dominated the opening exchanges but struggled to carve out any real chance.