OFFICIALS from the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar have expressed satisfaction over the safety culture, quality productivity and high level of environmental protection maintained by Tanzania Cigarette Public Limited Company (TCC). Speaking after visiting TCC Plc factory in Dar es Salaam recently the members of the Standing Committee for Women Development, Information and Tourism from the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar applauded TCC’s efforts and consistency. “This is extremely brilliant. I have learnt a lot from this factory. TCC Plc has impressed me, everything here including infrastructures must be taken as an example of best practices in Manufacturing,” said Ms Mwanantatu Mbaraka Khamis, Chairperson of the committee. She said apart from manufacturing cigarettes, TCC Plc is providing high level of social services and conducive remarkable environment for its workers. “We have seen workers here at the factory get a lot of benefits including group life insurance premium, 10 days paternity leave, 112 days maternity leave for one child and 126 days for more than one child, will writing for every employee, free transport and free meals from breakfast to dinner. This is quite encouraging,” she said. On her part, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Empowerment, Elderly, Women and Children of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, Ms Shadya Mohamed Suleiman said TCC Plc is creating employment for Tanzanians. We have been told that over 700 people are directly and indirectly employed by the facility, this number is not small,” she said. Ostin Mwakalibule, the TCC Plc Manager for Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) said they have always ensured that safety at the factory meets world class standards adding that TCC Plc Strategic Safety Management Framework is based on three main pillars of safe workplace, safety competence and safety culture that acts as a guide on safety and health issues. “We are strictly compliant with Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) regulations and as a subsidiary of Japan Tobacco International (JTI), we also adhere to other international standards that have among other things helped us a lot to prevent accidents at work,” he said adding that they have been working closely with OSHA to ensure that all compliance requirements are met as per the law.