THE Court of Appeal has stayed the execution of High Court’s decree for the payment of 100m/- by the Tanzania Telecommunications Limited (TTCL) to businessman Nicodemus Semu for allegedly trespassing on his land by constructing a telecommunications tower in Ugweno District. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Stella Mugasha and Shaban Lila ruled in favour of the state owned company after fulfilling all requirements for the grant of an order for stay of execution. “We accordingly grant the application and it is hereby ordered that the execution of the judgment and decree of the High Court is hereby stayed pending the determination of the intended appeal,” they declared. The grant of the application for stay of execution was, however, conditional. “The applicant (TTCL) is to deposit with the Court a bank guarantee of 100m/- within 30 days of delivery of the ruling,” the Justices said in their ruling dated April 3, 2019. According to the Justices, the requirements the court takes into consideration to grant or otherwise the application for stay of execution are set down under Rule 11(2)(b)(c) and (d) (i-iii) of the Court of Appeal Rules. They include lodging a notice of appeal, showing good cause for the grant of the application and complying with the conditions set out under item (d) of Sub-Rule 2 of the Rules, notably furnishing security for due performance of the decree. Having perused the application and supporting affidavits, the Justices were satisfied that the applicant dully lodged a notice of appeal on August 22, 2014 and clearly showed in the affidavit that he was intending to fault the High Court decision for failing to show how the 100m/- compensation was arrived at. The applicant stated in the affidavit that the High Court wrongly and was against the law to declare TTCL, a government organisation a trespasser and that duress was used to acquire the disputed land. They held that the issues raised constituted good cause for making the application for stay. As regards furnishing security for due performance of the decree, the Justices noted that the applicant had undertaken to deposit a bank guarantee of the sum equal to the decretal amount. It was stated that the TTCL, the applicant, was unsuccessful party in a suit for trespass instituted by Mr Semu, the respondent, before the High Court and that the applicant had entered the respondent’s land situated in Manja Ugweno District in Kilimanjaro Region. The applicant constructed a telecommunications tower without permission of the respondent and compensation. It was thereby declared a trespasser and was ordered to compensate the respondent 100m/-. Aggrieved and intending to challenge the whole of that decision, the applicant lodged a notice of appeal. Prompted by the grant of the respondent’s application for execution and issuance of attachment and sale order by the High Court, the applicant filed the application for stay.