THE government has put in place a strategy to eliminate the critical problem of child abuse in the country, strongly warning doctors, who will go against their professional ethics and values, notably tampering with scientific evidence needed to prove such a crime. This was said by Deputy Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, before the National Assembly yesterday. “We have given specific instructions to our health professionals. We have strongly emphasised that anyone in the health sector, who has been given the responsibility to verify medical tests that he or she, must do that professionally,” the deputy minister stressed. He said this when responding to a question by Ms Zainab Bakar (Special Seats-Chadema) that, “Whoever will go against professional ethics, we will not hesitate to confiscate and revoke his or her medical licence.” Giving more details on the government’s strategy, the deputy minister said so far there were more than 10,000 committees that had been established at various levels from district councils to regions. “We have also established more than 400 gender desks at various police stations. In line with this, there has been the establishment of juvenile courts so that cases involving children can be heard and speedily determined,” Dr Ndugulile noted. According to him, his ministry has also continued consulting the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to ensure there are teachers, who can provide counselling and receive some of the cases on children being abused in homes. The deputy minister was, however, quick to point out that they had not been able to determine the cases involved to the end because some perpetrators were family members. He, therefore, appealed to members of the public not to settle such criminal issues at family level. Instead, he advised, members of the public to let the law take its course. Before asking her question, the MP had explained that acts relating to child abuse, including rape, defilement and sodomy to boys and girls were increasing as days passed by. Dr Ndugulile said the current law was sufficient for all those convicted of rape and defiling boys and girls. He told the House that the Sexual Offences Special Provision Act of 1985, as amended in 2002, provided for penalties to whoever would be convicted of child abuse or defiling children, including 30 years imprisonment. The deputy minister pointed out, however, that it had been very difficult to convict offenders, especially those from the same family for lack of evidence. “Most of them are afraid of giving evidence for fear of losing one of the family members because of incarceration. In addition, due to the negative outlook of the community, many families are afraid of being stigmatised or discriminated against after exposing the offender,” he said. Dr Ndugulile, therefore, appealed to members of the public not to conceal gender-based violence cases within the family, instead they must cooperate with the government so that the law could take its course.