MZUMBE University Dar es Salaam Campus in collaboration with Kuehne Foundation are running a three day workshop to petty traders that will enable them to sustain their business. Organising the seminar in Dar es Salaam City, Mzumbe University Dar es Salaam Campus led by the Department of Short Courses, Research and Consultancy Head, Prof Honest Ngowi said that the training came after realisation that many petty traders in the market were trying to eke out a living, yet their businesses cannot sustain them for long and be inherited by their offsprings. He said they will keep on teaming with the traders and other community members to assist them in business plans which will make sure that their sustainability in the market is guaranteed. Prof Ngowi said that last year they trained 176 groups from Mbeya, Lindi on how to run sound businesses with the assistance of their professionals and students so that the students also learn the practical challenges of trade in public. “Any learning institution should not be an Island, but should reach to the communities and their people on how to help them address poverty and some problems facing them,” further said the don. He said for any business to prosper, it must be written and reviewed every time and again, instead of one having it in mind that the business is there to stay and feed him and his family. Citing the recent government stance on plastic bags, he said that any trader must be well versed in the market and position himself professionally to address such a thing and keep on being in business with an alternative solution. On her part, Kuehne Foundation Country Coordinator, Beatrice Millu said that they decided to sponsor the workshop to help the government address poverty amongst its population. “Once a woman is assisted with a sound business plan and ventures in business, her business will grow and she will be able to feed them, pay school fees and leave it for her coming generations to inherit,” she added. She further said that her foundation has been also sponsoring local Business Academicians from the University of Dar es Salaam and Mzumbe amongst others to Germany, Kenya, South Africa and Ethiopia to further acquire business skills and become good and reliable teachers in the country. Ms Millu noted that as the government is trying to alleviate poverty by introduction of industries in the country, they are also focused on training the nationals especially entrepreneurs on sustainable business. The workshop was attended by food vendors, hardware sellers, artifact sellers and several petty traders from all sorts of legal businesses in the country.