THE MultiChoice Tanzania has taken a leading role in ensuring that the upcoming Under-17 Africa Cup of the Nations (AFCON) finals is well covered globally through DStv and leaves nobody behind. Tanzania is all set to host the thrilling finals for the first time ever with the nation’s representative Serengeti Boys already on the front gear to claim the biggest junior football championship in the continent. Serengeti Boys will keep the ball rolling on Sunday entertaining Nigeria in an early kick off opening match in their group A at the 60,000 capacity National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Briefing members of the media here yesterday, MultiChoice Tanzania Head of Marketing, Ronald Shelukindo said they have opted to beam live the event to give chance to those who will not physically be available at the venue. “As you know, football is now a big business, meaning that through broadcasting live the competition, we will open up channels for our young players to be seen by teams which are in need of young players across the world. All eyes will be in Tanzania,” Shelukindo said. He added that Tanzania has potential to produce as many Mbwana Samattas as possible hence the junior players should embrace this chance with both hands, while aiming to do well to reach their dreams. “Here, not only players will stand a chance to be seen worldwide but even our country will be in the limelight,” he said. He then unveiled DStv ‘Inogilee’ campaign, whereby subscribers will pay only 99,000/- to watch the entire U-17 AFCON competition plus the remaining English Premier League (EPL) matches, La Liga and Bundesliga respectively. On his part, Director of Sports in the Ministry of information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Yussuf Singo, called upon many Tanzanians to descend at the venue to rally behind the young players, insisting that they will be highly motivated to see the stadium packed to capacity. “These players are still young as such, the only big motivation they need is to see their friends, brothers, sisters, parents and guardians backing them from the first whistle to the final one,” Singo said. He continued: “Government will continue to provide friendly sports infrastructure, including building new stadiums in order to stand a chance of hosting big football events like the senior Africa Cup of the Nations (AFCON) finals.” He said all the eight teams in the race have what it take to make the competition great and leave behind a memorable experience. In the same token, the former Taifa Stars player Amri Kiemba said this is the year for Tanzania to shine in the world of sports. “During our era, we never got the chance to be watched by the entire world like the way these (Serengeti Boys) players are having now as such, they must use it well to sell themselves,” he said. He further said this is the moment to show the world that Tanzanians love football not teams. Also, a MultiChoice Tanzania, Ambassador and popular Bongo Flavour mega star, Joh Makini urged fellow supporters to storm the venue just like the way they did to Taifa Stars against Uganda.