MOST of Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) listed firms have reported improved business performance despite the bourse relatively bearish trading throughout last year. Last year, Tanzania Share Index (TSI) lost 5.8 per cent while the All Share Index (DSEI) lost 15 per cent. Orbit Securities said in its Q uarter One market analysis that most companies saw improving business performance and growth in revenues and profits despite a dull market last year. “Overall, the market was expected to pick up from quarter two [in this year] after a slowdown throughout 2018 and the first quarter of 2019,” the report, released recently, showed. The report shows that Twiga Cement, the oldest cement producer in the land, led the profitability pack in 2018 recording a revenue growth of 28 per cent to 348.86bn/- while net profit margin improved from 13 per cent to 16.3 per cent. “… At a prevailing price of 2,100/- making [Twiga] the most profitable investment on DSE currently,” the report said. The banking sector seemed to be recovering last year as major banks including CRDB and NMB reported decent growth in profits mainly due to reduced provisioning for toxic loans. “CRDB reported a 79 per cent growth in net profits mainly due to a significant reduction in provisioning for toxic assets while NMB net profit grew 13.5 per cent,” Orbit said in Q 1 report analysis. Overall, as credit growth keeps improving, the banking sector’s performance was expected to improve as well although with a downside risk due to liquidity challenges. Tanzania Breweries Ltd (TBL), the leading stock in terms of capitalisation and turnover, which accounts for almost 40 per cent of domestic market capitalisation, reported better operational efficiency albeit challenging business performance hence less revenue last year. TBL revenue fell 3.0 per cent to 1.07 tri/- following destabilised distribution due to heavy rains during April to June last year. Tanzania Cigarette Company (TCC) reported a revenue growth of 4.3 per cent to 436.48bn/-while net profit grew 5.7 per cent to 47 .94bn/-. Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) plc has historically posted continuous revenue growth until the company faced a challenge in 2018. DSE revenue for 2018 was down 16.8 per cent at 6.28bn/- mainly due to falling transaction fees as turnovers dip, declining investment income and listing fees. Net profit retreated by 57 per cent to 1.67 bn/- as operating expenses, especially staff cost and administrative expenses collectively climb a ladder 37 per cent. Tanga Cement (Simba) on the other hand was still in loss territory last year but reported a significant reduction of “the quantum of losses” following improving business environment and an improved business performance. Tanga Cement net loss per share is expected to fall from 418/- to a range between 150/- and 199/-. The aviation sector improved slightly last year with a notable revival of the national carrier but with adverse developments for other sector players such as Swissport Tanzania and Precision Air. Swissport reported falling revenue for the third year in a row as revenue declined 6.0 per cent to 48.6bn/-last year due to increased competition from NAS-DAR Airco, suspension of some airlines’ operations in Tanzania such as Etihad and a reduced number of flights. Swissport profit margins worsened as net profit dropped 37 per cent to 7 .46bn/-.