MORE than 1,000 wild animals in the Serengeti ecosystem have been rescued from their death traps, thanks to a de-snaring programme by a non-profit organisation and government agencies carrying out wildlife conservation and community development work along the western corridor. The Grumeti Fund whose mission is to contribute to the conservation of the Serengeti ecosystem has successfully removed 1,392 snares used by poachers in trapping and ultimately killing wild animals in the area. According to the Fund’s Impact report 2018 availed to ‘Daily News’ yesterday, such a sheer number of wild animals had been saved by the programme that aims at rescuing them alive. The animals are mostly trapped and poached either for bush-meat and ivory, particularly from elephants. The report singles out snaring as a serious problem bedeviling the wild animals in the ecosystem. “Together with our TAWIRI and TANAPA partners we saved a number of injured animals from their human induced injuries in 2018, but snaring remains one of the greatest challenges in the Serengeti ecosystem,” says the report. Apart from removing the snares from the wild animals, the Fund also managed to seize 187 traditional weapons used by suspected poachers traversing the area as well as achieving a 50 per cent success rate in arrests using covert cameras. “Working with communities to manage human-wildlife conflict is critical, not only for the success of our day-to-day activities, but for the future of people and wildlife. With an increase in both human and wildlife populations comes more strained interactions; and the pressure on organisations such as ours to find solutions for this impending crisis mounts,’’ it says. The Grumeti Fund’s mission is to contribute to the conservation of the Serengeti ecosystem, its natural landscape, and its wildlife. Its operations combine cutting- edge technology with welltrained boots on the ground to combat poaching menace. The fund partners with local communities and other stakeholders to build capacity and thereby help them to realise their development aspirations. “We believe that by doing this we can help to create a world in which people and wildlife live