DODOMA Region yesterday signed an agreement with the Local Investment Climate (LIC) project for implementation of the improvement of the conducive business environment programme in its six districts. The initiative, which will be carried out in Chemba, Kondoa, Chamwino, Mpwapwa, Bahi, Kongwa districts, will address critical constraints to business development and economic growth in the areas. In his remarks at the signing ceremony here yesterday, Dodoma Regional Commissioner (RC) Dr Binilith Mahenge, directed the authorities in his area to address bureaucracy for business operators wishing to invest in Dodoma. “District councils should outline all constraints to business in their respective areas and submit them to my office,” said the RC during the signing ceremony. Dr Mahenge noted that business operators wishing to invest in Dodoma Region should get access to important information at the reception offices of district councils. The Investment Reform Advisor for LIC Project, Mr Donald Lija, said LIC works through targeted initiatives that identify and engage with private enterprises operating in strategic clusters and value chains. “We facilitate cooperation among cluster actors with the aim of innovating and catalysing solutions that stimulate sustainable local economic development and trigger growth and productivity,” he said. Mr Lija explained that the main objective of the project is to identify critical constraints, challenges and opportunities of local businesses and in particular young entrepreneurs, and strengthen their horizontal and vertical linkages. He pointed out that by working with both Local Government Authorities (LGAs) and the local business community, the overall goal was to create economic variables and financial sustainable investment. Mr Lija observed that LIC had over the past five years facilitated the establishment of district level Public Private Dialogues through which business and districts LGAs can agree on actions to be taken to create a more conducive business environment for growth and poverty reduction.