THE Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PPCB) has completed investigations into eight development projects worth about 2bn/- implemented by different councils in Kigoma Region, uncovering fraud, embezzlement, poor management and minimum implementation of the projects. According to a performance report of January to March 2019 released yesterday by Kigoma Zonal PCCB Director, Raphael Mbwambo, the projects include the construction of Buhigwe District Council Office, Kalinzi Water Project and Kalinzi District Health Centre in Kigoma District Council. Other projects are the construction of Uvinza Business Centre, the construction of the office Malagarasi village government and the construction of five classrooms at Mpeta Primary School in Uvinza District Council. According to the director, there is also a project involving the construction of three classrooms at Airport Primary School in Kigoma/Ujiji Municipal Council and the construction of a health centre in Kiganamo Kasulu. He noted that the investigations indicated the availability of fake purchasing equipment, procurement of substandard equipment, doing construction work without considering mapping and estimates and poor management of the engineer from council offices. In addition, he said, they had discovered that there was conspiracy to sell building materials, including 250 cement bags, 200 lime bags and 400 iron sheets provided for the construction of a health facility in Kalinzi and the loss of 50 water pipelines at Kalinzi Water Project in Kigoma District. “Thus, we are now completing a legal process to arraign the accused. PCCB cautions that it will not hesitate to take legal action against workers accused of sabotaging development projects. Those involved will be compelled to pay for the loss caused,” he said. He pointed out further that PCCB had also identified that a weak monitoring, management and inspection system from directors’ offices were the main cause of substandard projects. It has been noted that all procurement and construction management works are left to village construction committees, wards at health centres and schools and such places lack construction expertise and good work ethic