EAST African Legislative Assembly (EALA) lawmaker has expressed an intention to pass a motion in the house to push for establishment of an EAC organ on food security and nutrition. Mr Matthias Kasamba said here yesterday that he was determined to deliver the motion in the next EALA sitting, which is scheduled after the Easter holidays. “It is strange that out of all 14 commissions that fall under the EAC, there is none that talks about food and nutrition when some of the partner states are grappling with famine,” wondered the Ugandan lawmaker, speaking on the sidelines of the launch of the Eastern African parliamentary alliance to tackle food insecurity and malnutrition. Mr Kasamba who doubles as EALA’s Committee Chairperson of Agriculture, Tourism and Natural Resources, described failure to have the commission as an ‘indictment on EAC leaders,’ for leading a hungry population. “So dire is the situation that at the moment all partner states spend 2 billion US dollars to import grain, maize and wheat…this shouldn’t be the case,” he said. The legislature rallied to fellow lawmakers to push for increased agricultural mechanisation to address hunger and malnutrition, a scourge that has bedeviled the continent. Earlier, National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai warned that food crisis and potential famine were on the horizon due to delayed rains that faced the country. He hinted that Tanzania was likely to suffer serious food shortage in the next six months should the government fail to revive and implement strategies to address food insecurity. “What is happening in Turkana and some parts of Northern Kenya could also be replicated here if we don’t put special emphasis on agriculture, livestock, water and irrigation,” said Speaker Ndugai. He said Tanzania remains committed to the Malabo Declaration on ending hunger by 2025 and halving the current levels of the post-harvest losses by 2025. “Tanzania recognises and treasures the Malabo declaration, we will therefore put special emphasis on agriculture, livestock, water and irrigation,” assured Speaker Ndugai, urging over 40 members of parliaments (MPs) from nine countries to tackle hunger and malnutrition head on. He said, “MPs cannot be left out in the transformations because they have a big role in strengthening the institutional and legislative environment towards achieving the Malabo Declaration targets as well as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).” Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) Country Representative Fred Kafeero noted that the Eastern African countries were making progress in addressing food insecurity and malnutrition despite the overlying challenges. “Increasing incidences like conflicts and bad weather continue to hamper such efforts,” he said, assuring that the UN agency will continue supporting African countries to achieve the feat. Dubbed the Eastern Africa Parliamentarian Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition (EAPA FSN), the alliance seeks to follow up on the fulfillment of the commitments made by the East African governments to eradicate food insecurity and malnutrition by 2025. Also featured in the alliance are MPs from the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and the East African Legislative Assembly (EALS). Malnutrition remains the major impediment to economic development. It is estimated that 58 million children under the age of five years are too short to their age—stunted—in Africa. Childhood malnutrition costs the continental economy about 11 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) every year, with malnutrition prevention delivering 16 dollars in returns on investment for every dollar spent in Africa.