SIMBA will be targeting to impose another scalp to strengthen their Mainland Premier League title defence campaign, when they face JKT Tanzania at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro this evening. The Msimbazi Street giants have picked Jamhuri Stadium as their hove venue at this point where the National Stadium, Uhuru Stadium and Azam Complex all of Dar es Salaam have been closed in preparations to host Under-17 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals set to kick off on April 14th to 28th this year. Simba are still playing catch up and will be seeking nothing short of victory to keep pace with front runners—Young Africans, who sit top of the table with 67 points from 28 matches and second placed Azam FC on 62 points from 29 matches following their 2-0 victory over Kagera Sugar at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza yesterday. Patrick Aussems charges are third on the log with 57 points from 22 matches, while JKT Tanzania, who are battling relegation are placed 13th of the log with 36 points from 31 matches. After earning 3-0 victory in last weekend’s league clash against Mbao FC at the same venue, Simba will be seeking to keep their momentum. In fact, Simba have not dropped a single point in the league since November 23rd last year, when they were held to a barren draw by Lipuli FC at the National Stadium. Simba have won ten matches in a row, meaning, a win against JKT Tanzania today will see them winning 11 straight league matches this season and put their title defence campaign right on track. Heading into the match, coach Aussems said his team will continue to take each match seriously and that collecting maximum points in all remaining league matches was the priority. However, Simba will have to be cautious in today’s game and will likely field an under strength team, with an eye on the weekend’s CAF Champions League quarterfinal first leg clash against five-time winners Congolese, TP Mazembe at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Aussems will likely rest some of his key players to avoid putting them on injury risk ahead of the vital game against Mazembe. The likes of Emmanuel Okwi, Clatous Chama, Aishi Manula and Jonas Mkude are likely to be on the sidelines. However, the technical bench is expected to continue utilising the services of deadly striking duo of Meddie Kagere and skipper John Bocco, who put Mbao to sword last Sunday. Sturdy defender Pascal Wawa will certainly partner versatile Erasto Nyoni at the heart of defence, while James Kotei will provide defensive shield. Against JKT Tanzania will not be an easy ride for Simba, as the army side will be out to avenge first-round 2-0 defeat. JKT Tanzania are also among six teams which are struggling to escape relegation. This situation makes today’s game tough and unpredictable as both sides will be battling for maximum points. Meanwhile, Stand in Coach Iddi Cheche continued with his 100 per cent since taking over at Azam from sacked Hans Van der Pluijm with a 2-0 win over Kagera Sugar yesterday. The ‘ice cream makers’ netted the opener through midfielder, Frank Domayo after just three minutes from the kickoff. Goalkeeper, Jeremiah Kisubi gifted Azam a spot kick in the 84th minute after he fluffed with a back pass only to allow striker, Danny Lyanga to steal the ball from his legs, but the keeper charged to bundle him down inside the box. Zimbabwean striker, Donald Ngoma stepped up and took a panenka style penalty to give a deserved victory. League leaders Young Africans are expected to leave Dar es Salaam today, heading to Mtwara to face Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium tomorrow. The club’s Information Officer, Dismas Ten, said in a statement yesterday that Yanga will continue to miss the service of skipper, Ibrahim Ajib, who is still nursing injury. However, Juma Abdul, who missed several games due to injury, will be back in contention in starting line up to boost the defence. Mwinyi Zahera side, which lost 1-0 in their last league outing against Iringa’s Lipuli FC, will be looking to regain their winning form, to boost their title race campaign.