EAST African Community (EAC) member countries are in a process of ratifying laws to control the importation of substandard pharmaceutical and food products, an official has said. "Tanzania is ahead of EAC nations to have ratified the laws on safety, quality and effectiveness of food, medicines, cosmetics and medical devices. Other EAC nations are in the process of doing the same. After the exercise, we will have uniform standards," Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) Director of Medicines and Complementary Products Adam Fimbo said. Mr Fimbo made the remarks recently during a meeting between TFDA officials and representatives of different media outlets from Kagera and Geitaregions, as part of raising public awareness in the Lake Zone. He also revealed that TFDA was planning to set up special mini-testing labs at all 32 entry points in seven zones to ensure consumers were safe and the market was free of substandard drugs, foods and diagnostics. Various strategies have been put in place that will maintain strict and timely testing of the products with a state-of-the-art laboratory in Mwanza City as the headquarters in the Lake Zone comprising six regions ofSimiyu, Kagera, Mwanza, Geita, Shinyanga and Mara. He mentioned them as post-marketing surveillance programmes (PMS), which between January and March this year, handled 594 samples of human drugs collected and tested and found that 96 per cent of them were up to standard. He urged the media to come up with interventions by providing public education to consumers on substandard products also challenging them to uncover and report those behind them. “Entrepreneurs in various socioeconomic groups were also encouraged to register themselves with TFDA by paying a 50,000/- fee,” he said. Meanwhile, food processors and cosmetics entrepreneurs have been encouraged to utilise services offered by TFDA to promote and modernise their businesses. They should also attended training conducted by TFDA to impart knowledge and business skills to participants. Speaking during training in Bukoba Municipal Council, which brought together about 70 food processors and cosmetics entrepreneurs, TFDA Food Inspector Nuru Mwasulama said: "Acquiring knowledge is a big challenge facing most of the entrepreneurs dealing in food processing and cosmetics. We have a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO) and entrepreneurs are encouraged to contact SIDO for guidelines." SIDO Senior Officer Peter Kilima noted that they had already identified about 80 entrepreneur groups and 40 small-scale industries, adding that they also planned to sharpen their business skills. He noted that several entrepreneurs had been given soft loans under the National Entrepreneurship Development Fund (NEDF), ranging between 100,000/- and 5m/-, adding that in the 2017/18 financial year 250m/- had been issued as loans. TFDA is a regulatory body under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children responsible for controlling the safety, quality and effectiveness of food, medicines, cosmetics and medical devices. It is also entrusted with the protection of public health and environmental management.