A CUSTOMER with CRDB Bank Limited, Mr Evarist Kawishe, has lost over 100m/- in a Fixed Deposit Account (FDR) he offered as additional security guarantee for his friend’s company, Simon Agency Limited, to secure a loan of over 6.8bn/- for buying cotton. This followed a decision by the Court of Appeal to dismiss the appeal by Mr Kawishe to challenge the decision of the High Court’s Commercial Division, which had ruled in favour of the bank, as respondent. After Simon Agency Limited, as principal borrower, failed to settle the debt of 500m/-, which was later extended on two other occasions to reach 6,814,158,448/47, the bank raised all the amount of 129,584,209/38 in the FDR, as part of recovering the loan in question. It is this Bank’s decision which forced the appellant to seek court’s intervention to rescue his money. The High Court dismissed his suit, prompting him to cross over to the appellate court. In their judgment, Justices Kipenka Mussa, Rehema Mkuye and Ferdinand Wambali also rubbed salt into the wound. According to the record of appeal and the findings of the High Court, they said, there was no doubt that through a letter of lien directed to the respondent, the appellant offered his FDR to provide additional guarantee for Simon Agency Limited to secure a loan. “We further observe that the appellant explained in his testimony how he was approached by his friend Exaud Kwayu to offer his FDR as an additional guarantee and that he was fully enlightened on the letter of lien which he signed at the respondent’s Lumumba Branch while with his friend,” the justices said. They fully agreed with the findings of the trial judge on the co-extensive nature of the guarantee which was executed by the appellant through the letter of lien and that the document authorised the respondent at any time to offset the advanced loan upon default whether before or after the due date. “We wish to emphasise that one of the principles governing the guarantor’s liability is that it is co-extensive with that of the principal debtor. The term co-extensive with the principal debtor implies the maximum extent of the guarantor’s liability in case of the principal debtor’s default,” the justices said. They held that where the payment of loan which is guaranteed is not made, the guarantor becomes liable not only for the amount of the loan that is guaranteed, but also for any interest and charges which may have become due on it. Expounding further on the matter, the justices pointed out that a person who executed a guarantee needs to know that in essence a guarantee is a bonding promise of one person to be answerable for the debt of obligation of another if that other defaults. It follows that, they said, a contract of guarantee is predicated upon existence of a valid principal obligation owed by the principal debtor and a valid guarantee depends upon the existence of a promise made to a person to whom a debtor is answerable or is to become answerable. “In the present case, there is no doubt that by executing a letter of lien, the appellant undertook to answer for the debt, default or miscarriage of Simon Agency Limited within the terms of the guarantee. The principal obligation therefore remained unchanged throughout the life of a guarantee,” they ruled. It is not in dispute that on June 30, 2004, the appellant after being persuaded by his friend Exaud Kwayu, who had bought shares in Simon Agency Limited in order to buy cotton, offered his FDR as an additional security to guarantee the loan of 500m/-, granted by the respondent in a form of an overdraft. To facilitate the guarantee, the appellant signed the letter of lien in the sum of 104,110,585/85 as additional security for the loan. The appellant believed that the guarantee was to expire after one year. However, as at March 31, 2005, the loan was not paid over reasons that the company’s business did not go well.