AFTER a remarkable feat in the just ended Malawi Ladies Open, Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) has pleaded full support to the lady golfers in their endeavour to claim continental success. Anita Siwale, the union’s Vice-President made the promise yesterday as the union’s reaction after Angel Eaton and Vicky Elias returned home from Malawi with the event’s top titles, and Siwale on behalf of the union, said the duo need standing ovation and big support to make their golf skills advance further. The three-day competition held at Lilongwe Golf Club over the weekend, saw Tanzania taking two top positions with Eaton grabbing championship and Elias taking overall runner up title in the event that drew top golfers from Zambia, Zimbabwe, Ireland and Malawi. Siwale said that the golfers went to Malawi in a difficult situation notably financial constraints which deeply affected them. Due to that Vicky Elias was forced to take long bus trip to and from Malawi. “Tanzania has once again proved to the world that lady golfers are at the next level, we have many skilled players here. “Foremost lack of support has been the biggest challenge our players face, they don’t get necessary assistance and recognition for what they have achieved for this country so far,” noted Siwale. Siwale complimented players and media for their tireless support toward the development of the game. “I want to thank media for their support, they did a wonderful job to bring awareness to the society about golf, it is our pledge that they will continue to do that,” she said. Siwale added that Tanzania ladies have all it takes to continue ruling the game in the region, but maintained that they need sponsors and support from sports wellwishers. She also appeals for the government support as golf can hoist Tanzanian flag internationally. “Only players who love the game so much can do what these golfers did, I want to compliment them and ask them to stay focused,” she said. Eaton and Elias were more than happy to shine at the competition and thanked everybody who had supported and shared joy with them. Eaton said: “It was one of my toughest competitions; all three rounds were not that easy. The Lilongwe course is difficult one, it has narrow fairway and surrounded with lots of trees. Eaton who also emerged Division A overall champion, Day two gross winner and longest drive winner, added that green at the course is also challenging as it was not easy to hold balls. Elias added: “It is a beautiful course, but green for me, was a big challenge, they are not big and very faster, it makes you think much because you cannot chip in and ball stay. All in all, we enjoyed playing there. The golfers said that they will continue to work hard and raise Tanzania flag at any situation as they love the game.