THE other day Bunge was told that the government, in phases, will fix surveillance cameras in all Highways to monitor and curb over speeding as well other traffic offences. In the modern world where surveillance cameras have proved secure in guarding residential homes, the system is becoming more and more important also in the public due to the increasing crime and theft around us. They are able to provide us (read government) with video footage, whether live or recorded and that is the reason why a lot of people are protecting their homes and businesses with security cameras, why not the same government protecting its citizens with the same. For that matter, the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Hamad Yusufu Masauni making such a revelation in Parliament shows that the government, as the custodian of the public (motorists), must be concerned all the times with the property and lives of the citizens on the highways. As it has been pointed out that the CCTV is already fix ed along the Dar es Salaam to Morogoro Highway with others being in the pipeline, the same should be mounted in major urban areas with big populations as it is in major cities in the world. The video cameras often connected to a recording device or IP network and may be watched by a security guard or law enforcement officer, will in a way make an urban area look like a dot and ease monitor to the police instead of subj ecting many of them on physical patrols. It should be noted that as householders feel safer and are more protected if they have CCTV security systems installed in their homes, businesses, will also be protected from theft and monetary loss by the use of CCTV security systems. Police will only be standby to both prevent crimes and q uickly solve criminal cases with material evidence. This is an area that req uires no politics, but only cooperation for the State to succeed in its budget, because borrowing a leaf, research conducted in Baltimore and Chicago, indicate that cameras are linked to reduced crime, even beyond the areas with camera coverage and scares criminals. Equally, they should be extended in several Car Park settings to effectively reduce theft of motorists’ property when their vehicles are parked.