…Simba, Yanga, Azam in action MAINLAND Premier League title contenders - - Young Africans, Simba and Azam FC w ill all be in action today in a hunt for vital points as the race for the silverw are hits three major venues. Defending champions Simba will be away at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga to face hosts Coastal Union, while Yanga travel to Morogoro to face Mtibwa Sugar at the Jamhuri Stadium. Azam FC will face a tricky test away to Ndanda FC at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Information and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the matches between Simba and Coastal Union and Yanga versus Mtibwa have been changed their kick off time from 16 pm to 14pm. Ndimbo said the move aimed at giving opportunity to football supporters, especially those in Dar es Salaam to go and witness the ongoing AFCON U-17 finals, which are staged at the National Stadium and Azam Complex in the city. Simba return to the league action today after being eliminated from CAF Champions League quarterfinal stage by Congolese giants, TP Mazembe. Simba hit a hurdle following a 4-1 defeat at the hands of TP Mazembe last Saturday in the second-leg of the quarterfinals that was staged at the fully packed Stade TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi in which the Msimbazi Reds were beaten squarely by the five times winners of the tournament. The Msimbazi Reds bowed out on 4-1 aggregate defeat, following a barren draw in the first leg match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on April 6th this year. Simba have also been eliminated from the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and for them, there is no more distraction in between and their main focus will be to retain the top flight title. Currently settled in the third slot in the league table with 57 points from 22 games, Simba will certainly be back in full throttle and play a catch up with the top two. They have massive nine matches in hand. Patrick Aussems charges trail log leaders, Yanga by massive 17 points and nine points behind the second-placed Azam FC, but both Azam and Yanga have played 31 matches compared to Simba’s 22, meaning that if the Reds win all their matches in hand they will go top of the table. Aussems said that they are taking their league matches seriously starting with the today’s clash with Coastal Union. Simba players arrived in Tanga on Tuesday and began training for the clash. Going into the match today, Simba will continue to miss the services of their central defender, Pascal Wawa, who sustained injury in the first leg match of the Champions League quarterfinals against Mazembe at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The Ivory Coast defender is expected to be out of action for about a month, according to report from the club. Another key defender, Jjuuko Murshid will also be sidelined today because he is yet to recover after limping off during the return leg against TP Mazembe. Paul Bukaba and Erasto Nyoni are likely to fill the void at the heart of defence, with James Kotei and Jonas Mkude operating slightly above them. League leaders Yanga will be at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro to confront fifth placed Mtibwa Sugar. Like Simba, Mwinyi Zahera charges will battle for maximum points to maintain their title charge and prove that their 2-1 win against Mtiwa Sugar in the reverse fixture at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last August was not a fluke. Yanga, who are coming into the game from a 3-2 victory over Kagera Sugar, will miss the services of their dependable centre-back, Kelvin Yondani, who is serving three matches ban after being awarded a straight red card during their game against Kagera Sugar. Midfielder, Feisal Salum ‘Feitoto’ will also be sidelined today because he accumulated three yellow cards. However, the return of playmaker Ibrahim Ajib and defender Abdallah Shaibu will be a major boost for coach Zahera, who is eager to see his side winning the title. For Mtibwa Sugar, it will be a revenge mission as they lost 2-1 in a reverse fixture at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last August. Mtibwa Sugar Coach Zuberi Katwila is as well targeting for another victory after their 1-0 win over Alliance FC as they are looking to leapfrog Lipuli FC to the fourth position.