… many licence holders comply with the 30-day notice MINING licence holders have responded positively, paying part of over 116bn/- permit fees they owed the government on the mining blocks. Minerals Minister Dotto Biteko, speaking to the ‘Daily News’, could not state the actual amount collected so far, stressing however that the licensees’ response has been positive. “A good number of companies with mining licences have responded and paid but I cannot tell the exact figure because I’m not in office today (yesterday),” Mr Biteko explained, adding that some of the licence holders have requested for extension of the deadline to make payments. “As of last month, we had revoked licences of 11 companies, which failed to pay for their documents,” said the minister, promising to furnish more details on the exercise soon after the Easter holiday, which ended yesterday. Mr Biteko, on February 18, 2019, instructed the Mining Commission to serve a 30-day notice to companies that own 18,341 mining licences to pay the government the arrears or risk losing their licences. He had ordered the mining commission under its Chairman Prof Idrisa Kikula to revoke the licences for miners failing to pay after the expiry of the 30-day ultimatum. According to the minister, the commission had issued 30,97 3 mining licences, with 116.67bn/- not paid for 18,341 licences. V erification by the minerals ministry in February, according to Mr Biteko, found out that defaulters had already been served with defaulting notices but the permits had not been revoked as the law prescribes. Giving breakdown of the money that the government claims from each licence category with the amount in brackets, the minister mentioned prospecting licences (61.67 bn/-), special mining licences (6.41bn/-), mining licences (28.28bn) and primary mining licences (19.51bn/-). Mr Biteko had argued that since the mining commission had served the defaulting notices to 110 prospecting licence and 52 mining licence holders, their licences should be withdrawn in seven days. He directed the commission to ensure that even the government entities that have not paid the fees face similar actions. “Even the National Development Corporation (NDC) should have its licence annulled because I am aware that they have an outstanding fee of 375,000 US dollars with its partner in Liganga and Mchuchuma… they should be dealt with according to the law regardless of their status,” said Mr Biteko. The commission was also directed to call off all active prospecting licences that have no pending payment claims but within three months since receipt of the certificate, nothing have been done in the allocated areas. The commission was further ordered to come up with a proposal of licence limit for companies or persons because others especially in the prospecting category are holding more than one but doing nothing, denying others the opportunity to produce. He cited Christopher Eliofo of Ntoku Limited who had applied for 7 00 prospecting mining licences and has not paid the application fees.