SIMBA face a historic fixture today, against Congolese giants TP Mazembe in CAF Champions League quarter final, first leg at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems acknowledged that it will be a historical fixture and tough call for both teams. “This is very tough. We are talking of the team that has won several African cups in the past five years. TP Mazembe is a big team and we expect a tough game on Saturday (today). Even though this Mazembe may not be as strong as that of past few years but still they are better comparing to Simba. We have two games against them and we are prepared for the match,” he said. Simba claimed a 2-1 win over DR Congo’s AS Vita – courtesy of goals from Mohamed Hussein and Clatous Chama – in their final Group D match midway through last month. The Reds finished second on the standings with nine points, one behind Egyptian giants Al Ahly and join them in advancing into the quarterfinals. Going into the match against Mazembe, Aussems is hoping that his team can rise to an even greater challenge today against five-time African champions. “It is not historical for me but for the club Simba, for Tanzania and even for East Africa. It is something great. Now we can talk about football in East Africa thanks to Simba,” said Aussems. Simba will be seeking to attain their 1974 feat, when they reached beyond the quarterfinals of the then All Africa Club Cup Championship, presently known as the Champions League, when they were stopped in the semifinals by Egypt’s Mehalla el Kubra in Alexandria. However, TP Mazembe will also look to put a major dent for Simba’s Champions League hopes. They topped Group C with relative comfort and wrapped up their pool phase by defeating Algeria’s CS Constantine 2-0 in Lubumbashi, with strikes from Jackson Muleka and Tresor Mputu. Mazembe Coach David Mwakasu knows his team is favoured to overcome Simba, but believes the Tanzanian side will be tough opponents. “According to the experience that I have, Simba SC, like the other sub-Saharan teams, often pose a lot of problems,” said Mwakasu. “For them, when they play TPM, it’s a Club World Cup final... Simba deserves respect, I bet we must expect two very high-profile games. “These Tanzanians are very strong at home and score a lot of goals now. We are warned, we must make every effort not to fall into the trap (of underestimating Simba) because this year the goal is to go to the final,” he said. Algerian referee Mustapha Ghorbal will be in charge of the match in Dar es Salaam. The return game is scheduled for Saturday 13 April at Stade TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi.In their previous encounter in the same tournament, TP Mazembe registered a 6-3 aggregate win against the Msimbazi Reds in April 2011. In the first leg in Lubumbashi, TP Mazembe won 3-1 with striker, Emmanuel Okwi scoring Simba’s goal through a spot kick, while Alain Kaluyituka, Narcisse Ekanga and Mulota Kabangu scoring a goal apiece for Mazembe. The second leg ended 3-2 in Mazembe’s favour at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba’s goals were scored by Shija Mkina and Mbwana Samatta, while striker Alain Kaluyituka scored twice for Mazembe and Zambian international Given Singuluma netted once. However, Mazembe, who were the reigning champions were later disqualified from the third round of Champions League by CAF, after a complaint from Simba about the eligibility of defender, Janvier Besala Bokungu.