IN an effort to support industrialisation through leather products, the Vocational Educational and Training Authority (VETA) and Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the implementation of Grade III to VI leather training. According to VETA Director General, Dr Pancras Bujulu, Tanzania can do well in the production of leather products due to availability of quality raw materials, but a shortage of experts has been a hindrance. According to him, Tanzania ranks number three in livestock, behind Ethiopia and Sudan. Hence, there is no need for the importation of leather products once investment in leather is prioritised. "The implementation of this MoU, therefore, will definitely address present challenges. It will promote utilisation of local leather products. We are certain that available raw materials can meet domestic demand and make the country export finished products. What is needed is the availability of not only enough experts, but also creative ones in leather processing," he said. Dr Bujulu clarified that VETA had the mandate to offer Grade I to III leather training, but it stopped at Grade II due to a shortage of both human and material resources. It is the same challenge, which hinders VETA to disseminate leather products to all its colleges, only Morogoro- based Dakawa College currently offers training, according to him. “Given the fact that DIT is well equipped,” noted Dr Bujulu, “the MoU, therefore, will serve in the availability of professionals to disseminate knowledge to all VETA colleges country-wide.” DIT Principal, Prof Preksedis Ndomba, said the implementation of the MoU would start soon. He called on more investors in leather processing, stressing that availability of raw materials and experts produced by DIT through its Mwanza Campus, were enough to support investment. "We are so much concerned about the quality of raw materials. Quality is the main part of leather processing training at the campus. We encourage many students to join courses and promote self-employment in all our graduates," he said. He noted that the campus had been engaging in leather business with a variety of products, including footballs, handbags, footwear, belts and wallets, among others. "The next step is commercialisation of these products. We have been holding talks with various stakeholders to support us put our goods in markets. We urge the government to support our efforts," he noted.