THE Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, is expected to travel to Longido District soon to resolve a land dispute pitting Green Miles Safari Limited company and area residents. The company owns a Lake Natron plot in Longido District and 23 villages surrounding the area. The villagers want to be paid a total of 329m/- in compensation as they had earlier agreed with the company’s administration. However, the company is said to have rejected offering the payment, although the matter had been forwarded to the Longido District authorities for intervention. In an interview with the ‘ Daily News’ here, Dr Kigwangalla said he would visit the district towards seeking a solution. His decision came after a team of leaders from Longido District led by councillors, District Commissioner Frank Mwaisumbe and the District Executive Director (DED), Jumaa Mhina, travelled all the way from Longido to Dodoma to meet the minister to discuss the matter. “I will go to Longido to explain what the government has decided so far after meeting both parties to discuss the matter,’’ said Dr Kigwangalla. Already, Tanzania Wildlife Authority (TAWA) has suspended services to Green Miles, after the company failed to fulfil the regulations for land ownership and endless conflicts with Longido residents. TAWA Deputy Commissioner for Business and Tourism, Imani Nkuwi, said the company failed to remit statutory fees for not using 40 per cent of hunting blocks. “We have suspended all hunting permits in all the blocks owned by the company as the government continues to work on the issues raised by residents,’’ he said. Green Miles owns plots in Longido District and in Selous Game Reserve. Recently, the company received sharp criticism from residents in Longido who want to be paid their compensation. Recently, the Longido DC ordered that the Company’s Director, Salim Abdallah Awadhi, be arrested after failing to pay the villagers their money as well as the District Council. Mr Mwaisumbe said 23 villages in the district owed the company a staggering 329m/- as per the agreement sealed between them and the company in 2017/2018. Earlier, the DED said his office had been pushing for the company to clear their outstanding debts to no avail. ”I have been asking the company to pay the residents but no efforts have been made so far,’’ said Mr Mhina. However, Mr Awadhi has been consistently denied allegations levelled against Green Miles.