MINISTRY of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports has embarked on a process to establish a special museum at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, in recognition of all sportspersons, who brought honours to the nation. Deputy Minister, Juliana Shonza told the National Assembly here yesterday that different records and pictures of the sportspersons would be kept and stored at the museum. She was responding to a question by Ester Mahawe (Special Seat-CCM). The MP had earlier explained that most athletes, who brought honours to the country, come from Manyara Region, especially Mbulu District. Surprisingly, the lawmaker said, such athletes have been abandoned. The MP, therefore, wanted to know when the government would prepare a procedure of honoring the athletes and when the government will construct a sports field for the athletes in Manyara Region to encourage new athletes. In her answers, the deputy minister explained that the picture that was drawn by the MP that athletes are undervalued does not go with the actual position on the ground, insisting that athletes are valued in the country. Shonza mentioned some of the athletes as Filbert Bayi, who broke the world record in 1,500 meters Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand in 1974, who is the Secretary General of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) and the owner of Filbert Bayi schools. Another one is Suleiman Nyambui, the winner of the bronze medal in the All-Africa Games 1978 and the silver medal for 5,000 meters in the 1980 Olympic Games, who is now the Brunei national coach. The deputy minister mentioned another sportsman Juma Ikangaa – winner of the New York Marathon in 1989 and Boston marathon silver medalist in 1988, 1989, and 1990, who is a member of the National Sports Council (NSC). He is also a women’s competition coordinator (Ladies First) under sponsorship of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the ministry. The list, according to the deputy minister, also includes Samson Ramadhani, who is Melbourne, 2006 Commonwealth gold medalist, who is a military officer. She also mentioned Gidamis Shahanga-- gold medalist of Edmonton, Canada 1978 Commonwealth Games. The deputy minister pointed out that sportspersons, including athletes, who brought honours to the nation come from different parts of the country. She said that the principle of success in sports for the athletes anywhere in the world is for them to show self-determination to be the best among others.