ARUSHA and Kilimanjaro based chief executive officers (CEOs) of business companies have called for immediate eradication of Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) in the East African Community (EAC). Speaking at the EABC CEO Round Table Meeting yesterday where more than 30 CEOs of companies based in Arusha and Kilimanjaro participated, they said abolishing of the NTBs would open further opportunities arising from the regional integration process. East African Business Council (EABC) Executive Director, Peter Mathuki, said there is a need to remove NTBs and embark on trading proactively with the neighbouring countries even before venturing outside the continent. “Let’s spur business within ourselves as the EAC bloc,” said Mr Mathuki. He urged businesspersons in Arusha to proactively engage the EAC through EABC, since both bodies secretariats are located in the same city. The EABC CEO Round Table Meeting was organised by the EABC and held yesterday where more than 30 CEOs of companies based in Arusha and Kilimanjaro participated. The forum agreed to consolidate issues affecting businesses at the ground and through the support of EABC they would be keen to engage the EAC Secretary General and Council of Ministers for a quick resolution. Mr Charles Omusana from the EAC Secretariat said they support businesses growth and investment and they are working on reviewing EAC Common External Tariff (CET). “It is the right of the private sector to demand a better and improved business climate in the region,” he said, further urging the CEOs to give input on the EAC Private Sector Development Strategy that would be developed. The Chairman of TCCIA Arusha Region, Mr Walter Maeda, welcomed closer collaboration between TCCIA and the EABC in a bid to support Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) take advantage of the opportunities availed by the regional integration process. Mr Amani Temu from Tanzania Horticultural Association (TAHA) Fresh said that request for a waiver of duty from the Import Commissioner for EAC originating goods takes seven days, saying that it delays business and intra trade and, was one of the obstacles to cross border trade. The EABC CEO Round Table Meeting brought together high level managers from KCB Bank, Eco Bank, CRDB Bank, Lodhia Group of Industries, Kijenge Animals Products, Ethiopian Airlines, Nabaki Afrika, CNBM Builders, Precision Air, Harsho Group, REDAX , Vodacom, ANZA, Tanzania Chamber of Commerce Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) and Darsh Industries, among others. EABC is the regional apex body of private sector associations and corporates from the six EAC partnerstates. It participates in various sectoral meetings of the EAC, meetings of the Coordination Committee, the EAC Council of Ministers, and the Summit of the EAC Heads of State; with a view to ensure that the agenda of the Private Sector is well articulated and received by the policymakers.