LAWYERS for a local investment company, VIP Engineering and Marketing Limited, have asked the Court of Appeal to dismiss with costs the appeal lodged by two foreign companies that are challenging a High Court’s judgment for payments of 345bn/- in a substandard rice case. Advocates Michael Ngalo and Cuthbert Tenga told Justices Augustine Mwarija, Rehema Mkuye and Ferdinand Wambali that the appeal by Societe Generale De Survellance (S.A) and SGS (Tanzania) Limited, was incompetent for a number of reasons, thus, liable to be “struck out.” The two appellant companies have lodged the appeal with a view of opposing the judgment of the High Court’s Commercial Division delivered by successor Judge Jacobs Mwambegele, as he then was, on July 15, 2016, on behalf of trial Judge Nathalia Kimaro, who was then at the Court of Appeal. Before hearing of the appeal, VIP Company presented in court several grounds of preliminary objections, with the lawyers stating that the appeal was incompetent as the appellant companies had not filed memorandum of appeal that is endorsed and signed by the Registrar as required by the Rules. “The copy attached to the appeal does not show any endorsement by the Registrar or any court officer. Since there is no memorandum of appeal, then there is no appeal before the court to be adjudicated upon. Therefore, this appeal should be struck out with costs,” Advocate Ngalo requested. Advancing other grounds of objections, the advocate told the court that after going through the records, they discovered that the appellants had incorporated in the appeal exhibits that were not endorsed, as required by the law and that there were no issues that were framed during the trial. More seriously, he submitted, the appellant companies had not included in the record of appeal the copy of the judgment delivered by the successor judge. The advocate argued that the failure to include such a crucial document in any appeal makes the records not only incomplete but also defective. Advocate Seni Malimi, assisted by a set of lawyers who appeared for the appellants, admitted to some of the preliminary points of laws raised by the VIP counsel, in particular, on the aspects of non-inclusion of endorsed exhibits and the judgment of the successor judge in the records of appeal. He was, however, quick to point out that the problem of the exhibits was raised several times to the High Court, which at the end of the day supplied exhibits that were not endorsed. Following a series of correspondents to the court, he said, it was revealed that there were no such exhibits. “If there are no endorsed exhibits, then there is no evidence to support the judgment. Under the circumstances, this court should invoke its powers to quash all the proceedings and the judgment and order a retrial,” the advocate beseeched the justices of the appeals court. On the question of an unsigned judgment, Mr Malimi told the court that there was a problem, as the judgment dated December 19, 2015 was delivered on July 15, 2016. According to him, it was well known that judgments are dated on the date of pronouncement. Regarding non-inclusion of issues, the lawyer, who was assisted by advocates Gaudiosius Ishengoma, Audax Vedasto and Fayaz Bhojan, admitted to the fact, but pointed out that it was a mistake of the court for which his clients should not be panelised. On the issue of memorandum of appeal, the lawyer explained that there was confusion because the copies he had were duly signed and endorsed, while those filed in court and served to other parties were not. He once more pointed out that it was a mistake of the court and not of his clients. After hearing the parties, the justices reserved their ruling and said they would deliver the same on the date to be announced later. In the judgment, the subject of appeal, the High Court’s Commercial Division, found that VIP Company, the plaintiff, had proved its case against Societe Generale De Survellance (S.A) and SGS (Tanzania) Limited, who were defendants, on the balance of probability as required by the law. The trial judge ruled that SGS (S.A) had a duty under the contract to take all reasonable precautions, due care and reasonable alternative measures, all with the objective of carrying out the terms and conditions on the importation by VIP Company of the rice in 1998. She said that there was evidence adduced by Mr James Rugemalira that the plaintiff paid for pre-shipment inspection fees as per contract but the defendants, knowing that no inspection was carried out at all, issued a clear report of finding to signify that the goods imported matched required specifications. The judge noted further that while the contract had a provision for destination inspection in circumstances where pre-shipment was not done, the defendants refused to carry out inspection as requested by VIP, although they were aware that the ship carried rice which had no specifications. “The consequences were that the rice could not be sold as the price anticipated by the plaintiff and its market was adversely affected. That led the plaintiff to suffer loss. The evidence of loss suffered by VIP because of the negligence of SGS S.A and SGS is there,” the judge declared. In January 1998, VIP ordered for purchase of 3000 metric tonnes of rice (Pakistan long rice, 15-20% broken) from M/S Orco International (S) Pte Limited of Singapore under a Warehousing Management and Sales Contracts at a price of USD 267.50 per metric tonne, thus making the total USD 802,500.