THE government said it has taken major precautions in safeguarding areas bordering war-troubled countries. The precautions aim to monitor movement of citizens from these nations from illegally entering the country and conduct criminal activities, the Parliament heard yesterday. However, Prime Minister Majaliwa told the House that the duty of protecting thecountry’s peace and security also lies with citizens. He asked residents living near borders to cooperate with security forces by providing information when they notice some element of crimes at their areas. “The issue of security lies upon all of us, however, the country’s security situation is good since our security forces are doing a good job,” the PM informed the National Assembly. He gave the statement when responding to a question from Zainab Katimba (Special-Seats-CCM), who said that a number of crimes involving use of firearms have been reported at border areas, particularly areas bordering war-torn countries. The legislator sought for the government statement over the situation, citing Kigoma as one of the regions experiencing such crimes. Mr Majaliwa elaborated that the defence forces were watchful at those borders. Meanwhile, the government affirmed in the Parliament yesterday that by 2020, all Tanzanians would have tested for their HIV status and those infected put on treatment. “The strategy that we now have is to ensure that by 2020, each Tanzanian should have undergone HIV testing, that is why we have introduced centres for HIV testing countrywide. “We want all those who have been tested and found with positive results to start using Antiretroviral (ARVs) drugs immediately.” The Prime Minister made the statement when responding to a question from CCM MP, Amina Mollel (Special- Seats). Ms Mollel argued that statistics over new HIV infections were alarming, with 82,000 new infections every year. She said that data indicates that the most affected age group was the youth, accounting for 40 per cent of those infected between the age of 15 and 64 years old. The Premier stated that measures to fight the problem have been effectively coordinated by his office in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children.The two entities have a joint strategy to fight the pandemic, noting that awareness campaign was among major efforts taken so far. He said that the government and stakeholders have been conducting awareness campaigns in primary and secondary schools in a bid to make the students aware of the risky environments.