TANZANIA Cricket Association (TCA) has named a national women team squad that will represent the country in this year’s ICC Africa T20 qualifier in Zimbabwe. The 11-day qualifying competition is scheduled to be held from May 3 to 13 this year in Zimbabwean capital, Harare. The African regional qualifying for the ICC women’s T20 World Cup 2020 will bring together nine countries in the tournament to be staged at three venues; Harare Sports Club, Old Hararians and Takashinga Cricket Club grounds. Hamis Abdallah, the national team coach, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the Zimbabwean mission is on a top gear, as the association has already identified 14 squad members who will represent the country in Harare. Hamis named the national women’s team members as Fatuma Omari, Monica Pascal, Linda Justine, Tatu Bakari, Neema Justine, Saumu Godfrey, Tabu Saidi, Hudaa Mrisho, Shufaa Hamza, Nasra Nassoro, Zinaida Kelvin, Nuru Omary, Perice Zakayo and Gertrude Leopold. “We have selected strong team that consists of some experienced and talented players. It is a promising team which we believe will do a good job there,” he said. Adding, he said the team has been in an intensive training in Dar es Salaam under himself and Riziki Kiseto. “We set an early camp for the event as we gear up for the top honour, we understand it is going to be tough, but we are ready for any challenge,” said Abdallah. He said all players are doing fine and have good health looking forward for the battle. “We are confident of putting together an impressive performance and I am also very positive we will make the nation proud in Zimbabwe, these are our belief and mission,” he said. According to the Coach the team is expected to leave the country on May 2nd this year for the mission. Tanzania will have races against other strong teams including its East Africa Community rivals; Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda. According to Abdallah other participants in the qualifying showdown are Mozambique, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Ghana and hosts Zimbabwe.