THE government is finalising a process of opening a consulate in Guangzhou, China, to strengthen economic links between Tanzania and the second largest economy in the world. Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi (pictured), revealed this in Dar es Salaam yesterday when officiating at an event to mark the remembrance of Chinese experts, who died during the construction of Tanzania-Zambia railway (Tazara). “It is my sincere hope that Parliament in this budget will accept the proposal of establishing consular offices,” he said, adding that the offices would also help expand Tanzania’s presence in China and intensify economic and trade businesses between China and Tanzania. He said once all things were finalised, Air Tanzania Boeing 787 Dreamliner willdevelopmentstart flying direct to Guangzhou from Dar es Salaam. The flight will help increase the number of tourists from China to Tanzania and also increase the growth of businesses between the two countries. The professor welcomed more Chinese investors to come and invest in Tanzania as he assured them of continued support for better investment. Commenting on the occasion of remembering the Chinese experts, the ministerasked Tanzanians, Chinese and Zambians to emulate the courage of the heroes (those who built the Tazara) by remembering and letting their stories guide their hearts and minds towards constantly modernising and expanding Tazara to ensure the construction they did with their blood blossomed forever. He said the stories of the heroes should be remembered by future generations and for the benefit of Tanzania, Zambia and China as well as Africa and China under the belt and road initiative championed by the President of China. “This day reminds us that there are those who were after us and there are those who are after us. It is our responsibility to remember those who were before us and prepare a better world for those who are after us,” he noted. He said it was not easy to construct a railway over the earth and rocks and the time of colonial rule as he commended China for support to Tazara establishment. According to Prof Kabudi, Tazara was constructed at a time Western countries, the United States of America, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) rebuffed the idea of building the railway, claiming that the project was economically not viable. In another development, Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania Wang Ke said it was the duty of Tanzania and China to inherit and carry forward Tazara spirit by working harder to strengthen China-Tanzania relationship.