THEY won during the last year’s event but Kenyans returned to claim the glory in the 2019 edition of Ngorongoro Half Marathon; athletes from across the border have once more proved to be a force to reckon with as far as the tourism oriented race is concerned. A total of 1,500 runners took part in the Ngorongoro Race 2019, which was flagged off at Loduare Gates the entrance of Ngorongoro Conservation Area and gateway to Serengeti. Afterwards, participants, led by the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Khamis Kigwangalla, raced down past Karatu Township, onwards to Rhotia shopping centre along Makuyuni-Ngorongoro Road. They turned at Rhotia Hill, returning back to Karatu where they wound up the race at Mazingira Bora Grounds, with the first athlete to hit rope being a Kenyan runner, Abraham Too, who completed the race in 1 hour, 5 minutes and 59 seconds. He was a minute behind last year’s winner. Michael Kishiba from the National Service (JKT), who covered the distance in 1:5.45, was second and only Tanzanian in the second position. He was ahead of the third winner, Festus Cheboi, who also happened to be hailing from Kenya. The same case applied to the female runners winning bill; Esther Chesang from Kenya topped the lot having raced the 21 kilometres in 1:16.49. She beat Natalie Elisante from Talent Club of Arusha, who completed the round in 1:16.41. The third lady winner, coincidentally also hailed from a runner from Arusha, Angelina Tsere of the National Service (JKT) here, who used 1:18.57. Apparently JKT had two top winners in the Ngorongoro Race 2019. For the junior runners, covering 2.5 kilometres, it was Lucia Mchemba from Moitengi Serengeti who topped the bill in the girls’ category, while for the boys’ athletes it was Elisha Herman from Lighwa Singida, who was declared the winner. Tourism Minister, Khamis Kigwangalla, who also ran and managed to complete the main racing event, praised the participants and the main sponsors of the race, Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) for managing to combine sports, physical exercise and tourism in one package, while also bringing fun and excitement to the residents of Karatu, Rhotia and Ngorongoro. Winners of the main 21 kilometres race in both male and female categories, each pocketed 1m/- while they respective first runners-up pocketing 500,000/- . Third winners were awarded 300,000/- each. During the last year’s event, Kenyans also topped the race; in the form of Joseph Mbatha, who won the race having used 1:04.54. The record of the 2017’s first winner, Faraja Lazaro of National Service (JKT), who used 1:03.42 in topping the Ngorongoro Race 2017, is not yet broken. Another Kenyan, Benard Mussa (1:05:09) completed the race in the second position. The Tanzanian who made it into the top 3 was, Paschal Mombo (1:06:05) from Hanan’g who came in the third position. Even in the ladies’ category, it was Monica Cheruto from Kenya (1:18:07), who topped the bill last year, followed by Failuna Abdi from Tanzania (1:18:20) in the second position and Fadhila Salumu also from Tanzania (1:19:58), in the third position.