DIPLOMATS and business community from Nordic countries have commended Tanzanian government spearheaded ant-corruption drive and efforts to strengthen the business environment in the country. They have particularly appreciated efforts to level the playing fields for all competitors. S w e d i s h Ambassador to Tanzania Anders Sjoberg said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that government efforts to fight corruption and improve business environment have the potential of leveling the playing field for all players while promoting business that will lead to sustainable growth. “Nordic companies are generally excellent corporate citizenswith high levels of business ethics and strong focus on operating in responsible manner...the ant-corruption drive by the government and efforts to strengthen the business climate are highly welcome,” he said. Ambassador Sjoberg was speaking at the opening of Policy Research for Development— REPOA— hosted seminar on Growing Nordic Business in Tanzania as part of activities of the 2019 Nordic Week. Nordic embassies in Tanzania—Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden—jointly organised the seminar that brought together representatives from the Nordic businesses, governments, private sectors and development partnersto discuss sustainable business growth in the country. The envoy described sustainable trade and investment growth as key for all countries and plays an important role in Tanzania’s efforts to become middle- income country by 2025. “Despite some challenges, efforts are being made to improve business climate like development of the private sector development policy, the Blue Print on Business Environment and the updated comprehensive action plan,” the envoy said. He said there is a big group of Nordic business companies in Tanzania that is keen to continue working in the country but faces some challenges that need to be addressed to improve the business climate. He stressed the importance of implementing the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve Tanzania Business Environment. Mr Sjoberg said the Nordic business community was centered on the need for a predictable business climate where there is clarity on the applicable rules. The Private Sector Foundation Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Simbeye commended the government efforts to create conducive environment for doing business in the country. He said the government has started working on the business blueprint and was approved by the cabinet in April last year. Mr Simbeye said that the government has already released a draft for implementation of the blueprint and was expected to be implemented in the coming financial year. Mr Simbeye said should the document be implemented as proposed, it will address a number of challenges facing the business community in the country. He said the private sector can build trust if they regulate themselves and be good cooperate citizens. REPOA Executive Director, Dr Donald Mmari urged the government regulatory agencies to build a system that will enable them to understand the business community better. “The system will enable them to understand their business processes, how they procure raw materials, manage their labour manufacturing operations, market, export... this will help them to understand the core structure better and the potential for tax revenues and leakages as well as how to seal them,” he said. Every year, the Nordic countries in Tanzania organise the “Nordic Week” to highlight different aspects of their partnership. It is an opportunity to share their values and learn from each other’s’ experience. This year’s theme is “Building Partnership for Sustainable Development.”