ARUSHA Urban Member of Parliament (MP), Godbless Lema was yesterday suspended from attending three parliamentary meetings over his stance that the legislature is week. Members of the Assembly passed the verdict against the legislator on Chadema ticket after unanimously endorsing a resolution presented by the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee, which convicted the lawmaker on the offence he was charged with. According to the Committee Chairperson, Mr Emmanuel Mwakasaka, the parliament affirmed and agreed to approve the committee recommendations on penalty against Lema. “Therefore, the parliament resolves that Mr Lema be suspended from attending three parliamentary meetings from the date of this resolution,” Mr Mwakasaka, declared. Some opposition MPs, mostly on Chadematicket, walked out of the debating chamber as a gesture of solidarity and disapproval to the suspension, the committee findings and verdict, which became effective yesterday. Speaker Job Ndugai ordered all legislators who had walked out of the house to remain outside for the whole day. Presenting the findings, Mr Mwakasaka told the house that on April 2, 2019, while debating the Parliamentary Resolution against Kawe MP, Halima Mdee, Mr Lema was heard saying that as the two-term legislator, he affirmed that the parliament is weak. The Office of the Speaker ordered him to appear before the Mwakasaka committee for interrogations and present evidence to support his claims. Mr Mwakalasa said, Mr Lema appeared before the committee and maintained his position. “During the interrogations, Mr Lema supported the position of the Controller and Auditor General and Halima Mdee, who were all convicted of disrespecting the house and undermining the integrity of the parliament,” said the chairman. According to him, during the investigations on the matter, the committee was satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that Lema uttered the statements deliberately to disgrace the parliament. The acts the MP did, he said, should be discouraged in all forms to protect the dignity of the parliament. “The committee convicted Lema of despising and disgracing the parliament as per section 26 (e) of the Parliamentary Immunities, Powers and Privileges Act. When he appeared before the committee, he did not regret of his acts, but requested the committee not see mercy or forgive him,” Mr Mwakasaka said. The chairman also pointed out that before deliberating his case, the MP had requested the committee to give him time to appear with his advocate. He pointed out that the committed recalled similar incidence that occurred in 2016. Mr Mwakasala said Lema at the time was accused of disrespecting the house by fighting and after appearing before the committee, he requested to have the advocate, an opportunity which he was afforded, but never showed up. “Having discussed the matter extensively, the committee found out that he had no plan to have his lawyer at the proceedings,” he said. Giving their contributions on the resolution, Almas Maige (Msalala-CCM) and Mariam Kisange (Special Seats-CCM), asked the MPs to endorse the motion, insisting that the proposed verdict was reached after the committee had followed all procedures and relevant laws. Mr Maige wondered why Mr Lema appeared before the committee but could not show any respect and repent to what he had done. Instead, he said, the opposition MP surprised the committee by asking for stern punishment. John Mnyika (Ubungo-Chadema) asked his co-MPs on the opposition against endorsing the resolution, charging that the laws and procedures were abused in handling the matter. He said although Lema had appealed against the decision of the Office of the Speaker, the committee continued with its deliberations.