AIRTEL Tanzania has bought health insurance cover for 100 children from low income families at the Muhimbili National Hospital for one year . Speaking at a hand over event at the Muhimbili National Hospital yesterday, the Airtel Tanzania Director of Department of Business Enterprises, Boniface Bwambo said the initiative aimed at supporting the government reach its long term goals of offering better health services to all Tanzanians. Airtel recognizes the importance of being a responsible corporate to the surrounding community through giving back to the society and health sector being one of the pillars, he said. He said Airtel Tanzania through its programme has for some years now been supporting the needy in the society by donating various humanitarian assistance aimed at showing love and care to people living in difficult conditions in the country. ”The welfare of our surrounding community means a lot to us as a company as they are important people in the growth of our business. We promise to continue in engaging in future activities which touches the miss-fortune groups in our society,” he said. He said the provision of health cards to the children was an initiative by Airtel employees in the Department of Business Enterprises who contributed their own funds. The Muhimbili National Hospital Director of Care and Nursing services, Zuhura Mawona thanked Airtel Tanzania saying the initiative would assist children to get reliable health services. She said this was in line with the government’s objectives in ensuring people get reliable services at Muhimbili National Hospital and children are among the most vulnerable groups. “I call on parents to use this opportunity that has been provided by Airtel Tanzania and ensure that our children receive reliable services at the hospital at any given time without having to pay cash,” Mawona said. One of the parents whose child has been a beneficiary of the medical cards Rukia Yacob, said she was so happy with Airtel for providing their children with the medical insurance cards as they have been experiencing difficulties in settling medical bills whenever their children fell sick. I really congratulate Airtel Management and the entire staff for what they have done to us. It is a very big boost for our children health as we will no longer have difficulties whenever we seek medical attention for them. I call upon other companies and corporates to emulate what Airtel has done today and they will really be saving the entire community, Yacob said.