TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) has received 297m/- from Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) for renovation of the laboratory at its Makutupora Centre. Head of TARI Makutupora Centre, Dr Cornel Masawe, noted during a tour here yesterday that the project to renovate the laboratory was complete by 90 per cent. Equipped with modern research apparatus, it will focus on grape farming. “The facility will help farmers produce grapes with recommended sugar content to enable wine making companies to produce best wines,” Dr Masawe said. Dr Masawe explained further that plans were underway to embark on a special training programme which would include a series of theoretical and practical training to equip farmers and extension officers with key knowledge on how to grow grapes profitably. “The initiative will also see grape farmers empowered with modern ways of processing grapes into juice,” he said. Dr Masawe said the programme would also support research projects to produce varieties of best grape seeds, adding that TARI had already started to disseminate knowledge on agronomic practices among grape farmers and extension officers in Bunda, Geita and Same districts. The supervisor of the grape demonstration farm at the centre, Mr Richard Malle, urged farmers to use the centre to get knowledge on modern farming techniques, saying the centre had a good number of experts in the cash crop. He underscored the need for the government to continue investing heavily in grape farming, noting that Tanzania had ideal weather for facilitating two grape harvesting seasons a year. Mr Malle observed that the country had ideal weather for producing grapes with high sugar content, which was ideal for wine making. The institute’s spokesperson, Mr Sebastian Kandila, said the centre would always be on the forefront in improving the grapes sector, through innovations and implementation of key research projects. He cited Makutupora Red and Chenin White as the types of wine grape varieties grown in the country and which had been researched and certified by relevant authorities.