CIVILIANS who Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT) Wazalendo leader Zitto Kabwe had alleged had been killed by police in Kigoma Region are among witnesses scheduled to testify in his pending sedition trial. This was said by Kinondoni Regional Crime Officer, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) John Malugu, at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was testifying in the criminal case against Zitto, as the first prosecution witness. The leader of the opposition party is alleged to have made several seditious remarks against the Tanzania Police Force, accusing them of killing more than 100 civilians in Kigoma. Led by Senior State Attorney Nassoro Katuga, the witness told Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi that the statements made by Zitto at a press conference he convened at the opposition party’s office were blatant lies aimed at fuelling chaos between the police force and civilians. He said he contacted the RCO in Kigoma Region identified as Mark Njela to verify the truth on the issue, but established that the reportedly killed individuals were still alive. “Your honour, some people were discussing in groups that Zitto had said that the police went to Nguruka Health Centre where they took four patients and later killed them. These people being referred to are alive. They will show up before you to testify,” the police officer told the magistrate. In his examination in chief, the witness told the court that on October 28, 2018, he got information that Zitto was planning to hold a press conference at the party’s office at Kijitonyama to speak on issues of security. He testified that as the RCO of the area, he arranged some police officers to ensure security. On October 29, 2018, he said, while on a patrol mission passing through Morogoro Road towards Kimara, upon reaching Tip Top Manzese, he was attracted by a group of people, who were in hot discussions over the conduct of the police force. The senior police officer told the court that he approached the area to hear the discussions and heard the people around accusing the police force of intimidating and killing civilians, that it had become aggressive and ceased to be a force for the people. “Those people were in an angry mode. One of them told me that they were following what was said by Zitto at the press conference. He is called Shaban Hamis. I took his mobile phone number,” the witness testified. SSP Malugu further told the court that he witnessed a similar incidence when he reached Kimara Korogwe where there was another group of people discussing the same thing, but in an irritated mood. Upon reaching the group, he said, he managed to talk over the issue with Mashaka Juma. In the case, the prosecution alleges that the accused person committed the offences on October 28, 2018 at Kijitonyama area within Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam, while holding a press conference at ACT Wazalendo Headquarters. Among such words includes, “people who were injured during confrontation with the police went to hospital for medical treatment at Nguruka health centre, but the police received reports that four people had gone to the hospital… they followed them there and killed them.” Furthermore, the prosecution charges Zitto with sedition for saying, “We’ve been following up what is happening in Uvinza ... we are sorry to say that the information we get is frightening. …we are told that more than 100 members of Wanyantuzu tribe have lost their lives by being shot by police, others are said to have been killed while receiving treatment in hospital…”