KAGERA Regional Police Commander (RPC), Revocatus Malimi has appealed to Tanzanians to uphold existing peace and tranquillity especially during this time of festive season. “My appeal to all residents is to ensure that national interests prevail. We must ensure that the prevailing peace and tranquillity is sustained,” he said. He allayed fears of insecurity during this festive season, saying the government was awake and had put in place workable strategies to ensure peace prevailed. He assured residents of peaceful festive season, adding that security had been strengthened. On the other hand, he appealed to parents to ensure that they did not allow their children to go alone swimming to the lake to avoid drowning. He also cautioned drivers against drinking and driving for it was not safe for themselves and for passengers and for other road users. “You must ensure you leave someone home to prevent thieves breaking into their homes,” he added. A few weeks ago Standard Seven twins - Hassan Hamis (12) and Hussein Hamis (12) – from Kashai Ward in Bukoba Municipal Council, drowned in Lake Victoria, while swimming. Mr Malimi said the twins had gone to the lake for swimming near Spice Hotel. “As they were swimming one of them was swept away by strong water current. The twin brother went to rescue him, but he also drowned. It was a sad incident," he said. He added that two pupils from Bugambakamoi Primary School in Bukoba Municipal Council drowned near Ntungamo Major Seminary. Mr Malimi named them as Renatus Melkisadek (13), a Standard Five pupil and Shabin Hamad (13), who was in Standard Four. They both drowned, while swimming in a puddle. Meanwhile, Bukoba Auxiliary Bishop, Methodius Kilaini has appealed to Tanzanians to maintain peace and not allow religion to divide them because they are all sons and daughters of God. Giving a homily at Mater Misericordia Cathedral in Bukoba Municipal Council on Thursday Bishop Kilaini said it was sad that in most parts of the world people were fighting against each other, which resulted in losses of millions of human lives. "We should unite as we celebrate this event. Political and religious differences should not divide us," he insisted. He appealed to Tanzanians to avoid superstitious beliefs and instead, should work hard for sustainable development. "Tanzania, one of the most peaceful and politically stable African countries, offers an attractive investment climate, a rich and diverse natural resource base and a growing consumer market. It's these widely acknowledged factors that have made the country a darling of foreign investors and multinational companies," he said. He encouraged Christians to stay close to God, show love to neighbours and live religious values. "Right now there is freedom of worship. This is the right platform and it has to be used effectively. The Church is committed to continuing preaching peace and solidarity and serving humanity, both spiritually and physically," he said.