PARLIAMENTARY committee for Trade and Industries Chairman, Mr Jitu Soni, has called for introduction of the climate change topic from low education levels, to prepare a future generation that is conversant with the impacts of climate change. Mr Soni, who also doubles as MP for Babati Rural constituency, told a just ended Climate Change Symposium here that exposing the young generation to the subject would encourage future generations to protect the environment from tender age. “The topic will prepare members of the public who are committed to environmental protection. This will help to address the impacts of climate change,” said the Parliamentary Committee Chairman while closing the symposium. The symposium, which is an annual Forum Climate Change flagship event, brings together civil society organisation representatives from the government, development partners, academic institutions, youth, community, women and media to discuss and propose solutions to address climate change and its related issues. Forum Climate Change representative, Erick Mugurusi said this year’s event held under the theme ’Achieving Policy Coherence, Inspiring Accountable Climate Actions’, would emphasize policy harmonisation between sectors to promote climate change adaptation actions. “The forum provides participants with a platform for sharing innovative thinking and networking for long lasting solutions to drive policy coherence for climate change adaptation action,” he said. Mr Mugurusi said the symposium would have plenary and break-out sessions focusing on sub-themes, pointing out that the main plenary session would specifically address National Determined Contributions Implementation. “The discussion will contribute to and recommend better policy options and actions to fulfill our national climate change objectives and contribute to global efforts,” he remarked. Oxfam Campaign Manager, Ms Jovitha Mlay, underscored the need of gender inclusion in programmes to address climate change, saying women and children are mostly affected by adverse effects of climate change. “I urge the government and development partners to consider gender while designing programmes to address climate change,” she said.