TANZANIA Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) and SAGCOT Catalytic Fund (SAG COT-CTF) yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) aimed at enabling farmers access loans to expand the agricultural sector. The agreement was signed by the TADB Director of Planning, Research and Policy, Dr Nyankono Marwa, who represented the bank’s Managing Director, Mr Japhet Justine, and the Executive Secretary of SAG COTCTF, Mr John Kyaruzi held in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Speaking shortly after the signing ceremony, Dr Marwa said the agreement would, among other things, help to address the challenges farmers have been facing, including getting loans with exorbitant interest rates. “It is my hope that the MoU will help improve the environment for farmers to fully engage in farming where loans will be easily available to farmers at all levels,” Dr Marwa explained, noting that TADB was committed to the growth and development of agriculture. He said the bank had an obligation to ensure that farmers were empowered with loans to better their farming activities. According to the director, the fifth phase government under President John Pombe Magufuli wanted to transform agriculture and make it contribute significantly to the country’s economy. Earlier, the Executive Secretary of SAG COT-CTF, Mr John Kyaruzi, described the agreement as healthy for the growth and development of the sector in Tanzania. “Everyone will agree with me that, for a long time, farmers were facing a number of challenges, including that of securing loans. With this agreement, the sector will move forward and have an impact to farmers,” Mr Kyaruzi said. He commended TADB for interaction with key stakeholders in the sector, saying that the MoU with SAG COT-CTF would be beneficial for farmers at all levels. “As a catalytic fund, we are duty bound to facilitate availability of reliable markets for farmers and put in place an enabling infrastructure,” he said, noting that SAG COT-CTF and TADB had something in common. TADB has in recent months been visiting different stakeholders, including farmers, with a view to improving the performance and contribution of the sector to the economy.