THE Registration Insolvency and Trusteeship Agency (RITA) has so far registered 578 wills across the country, Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga, told the National Assembly on Wednesday. Out of the 578 registered wills, he said, 33 of them had been used. The minister disclosed that RITA had introduced services of writing and storing wills in 2008 and since then RITA had continued with the provision of education. “Since then my ministry through RITA has continued developing and implementing various strategies to promote and educate members of the public on the importance of writing and keeping wills,” Dr Mahiga said. He was responding to a question by Ms Fatma Toufiq (Special Seats-CCM), who had explained that among the major reasons for women and children to be robbed of their properties by relatives of their husbands was the absence of will. The MP wanted to know the government’s sustainable strategies to address the issue and whether it would be ready to provide education on the importance of will. Responding, the minister told the House that recognised the importance of writing wills, as one way of dealing with conflicts in community related to the allocation of deceased assets. He pointed out that they had been using various means of educating members of the public on the matter. Among such means, according to him, include public meetings, radios, televisions, newspapers and social networks.  He assured the House that the ministry would continue designing different ways of educating the community about the importance of writing a will. The minister also appealed to MPs to contribute to efforts made by the government to encourage citizens to develop a habit of writing and keeping wills at a special place until they were needed. He mentioned the cost of registering wills at RITA, including 50,000/- for wills relating to properties, whose value did not exceed 50m/-, while those ranging between 51m/- and 200m/- could cost 20,000/-. The minister also disclosed that the cost of wills, whose properties valued at between 201m/- and 500m/- was 30,000/-, while one would be required to pay 50,000/- if one wished to register the will, whose properties were valued at over 500m/-.