THE government has promised to construct at tarmac level 71 kilometre road to stimulate economic growth in Magu, Sumve and Ndugu districts in Mwanza, the National Assembly was told here yesterday. Answering a question from Richard Ndassa (Sumve- CCM), the Deputy Minister of Works, Transport and Communications, Mr Elias Kwandikwa, explained that the Isandula-Hungumalwa Road covering 71 kilometres is a regional road being served by the ministry through Tan- Roads. The road, he said, passes through Bukwimba, Nyambiti and Ngudu towns and was not only a key road in stimulating economic growth in the districts, but also a link between Mwanza- Sirari and Mwanza- Shinyanga highway. In his question, the lawmaker wanted to know when the Isandula (Magu)-Bukwimba- Ngudu Road, whose feasibility study has been completed, will be included in the budget so that it can be constructed to tarmac level. The deputy minister told the House that considering the importance of such road, his ministry was conducting feasibility study and detailed design with a view of constructing the same to bitumen standard. According to him, the detailed design was expected to be complete by May this year. After such a study and calculating the required cost, Mr Kwandikwa pointed out that the road will be included in the programme of being constructed to tarmac level, depending on availability of funds. The deputy minister assured the MP and his electorates that while construction at tarmac level was being awaited, his ministry through the Tanzania Road Agency (Tanroads) will continue to maintain the road to ensure that it is accessible throughout. Meanwhile, a sum of 650.371m/- was set aside in the 2018/2019 financial year for construction of Kyaka- Bugene-Kasulo (Benako) Road with 178km in Kagera Region, the deputy minister told the House yesterday. Responding to a question by Oliver Semguluka (Special Seat-CCM), who sought to know when such road will be constructed to tarmac level, Mr Kwandikwa explained that having considered its importance, the government decided to construct the road to such level in phases. The first phase, he said, involved a portion of the road from Kyaka to Bugene (Nyakahanga) with 59.1km, which has already been constructed at tarmac level. The deputy minister said that the second phase involves a portion from Bugene to Kasulo (Benako) with 118.9km. According to him, feasibility study and detailed designing being done on such portion and preparation of tender documents for construction to tarmac level was in final stages under LEA International LTD Consulting Engineer from Canada, in partnership with LEA International LTD of South Asia.