TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) registered 80 projects from January to March this year, worth about 883bn/- (383.2m US dollar) out of which 49 ( 54 per cent) are for industries. The Centre’s Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Mwambe, said yesterday in Dar es Salaam that, 11 per cent was for transportation and six per cent for tourism sectors. He urged the investors to grab the available opportunities in paper bags production, to substitute the plastic ones following the recent government decision to ban the importation, manufacturing and uses of plastic bags. “The Centre is really playing its role on coordinating investment activities in the country. We thank President John Magufuli for supporting us. However, there are still some challenges in various investment areas,” he said. Mr Mwambe urged the authorities to closely work together with the centre and prioritise the nation’s interests, as it is the case for most of the developed countries. He said there is a need for relevant authorities in land, working permits, environment and taxation sectors to ensure smooth services to investors. He said the improvement of such services will automatically develop the investment sector and boost tax collections in tune with President Magufuli’s call. In other words, he added, the move will greatly contributeto national economic growth. The country has lots of natural resources, but needs only creativity, especially technology, to support the implementations of various development projects. “TIC boosts the tax-base through business and investment, the measure that needs close cooperation from other authorities by serving the investors on time,” Mr Mwambe said. According to him, over 22 million Tanzanians are able to pay taxes once there are conducive business environments which should be backed up with regular public awareness campaigns on all investment procedures, laws and rules. Bureaucracies in permits issuance, land releasing, and random business shut down by some of the authorities are among the reasons behind stagnation of the tax-base expansion. “I am personally a TRA Board Member wherein I keep on advising the authority’s Commissioner General to educate his subordinates that business shut-down is completely affecting tax collection. It affects the nation’s economy and investors’ capital when somebody spends a couple of days without producing simply because he or she delayed to pay tax. “Investors should first be engaged and educated on the best procedures to do businesses. Business-shut down should be the last option for those who completely show no cooperation,” reiterated the TIC boss. However, the director appraised accountability in the TIC One Stop Centre, saying the organ has to some extent been smoothing the services for investors through the teamwork spirit. He affirmed that from January to March, about 892 residential and 1076 work permits were issued. The National Identification Authority (NIDA), which joined the team last month, has already issued 261 identity cards. Meanwhile, TIC will run the ‘Tanganyika Business Summit and festival’ from May 9th to 11th, in Kigoma. The festival aims at, among other things, promoting investment opportunities available in the region and encourage their utilisation by both local and foreign investors, especially the countries surrounding Tanzania. According to him, over 150 investors have already confirmed to participate while registration activities are still in progress. He confirmed that Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan was expected to honour the event.