DANISH ambassador to Tanzania, Einar Jensen has commended the strides intended to formalize informal sector which comprises of 90 percent of the business in the country and offers jobs to 60 per cent of the population. He said all needed was concerted and creative efforts of taking the sector to next level. Speaking during a breakfast debate meeting organised by the Policy forum in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, Mr Jensen said that Denmark is on the front-line of helping to improve business environment in the country, with the focus of seeing some informal petty business graduating into registered formalized ones which will comply with tax and contributing to nation’s GDP. “Supplying ID cards to petty traders is first and foremost step to recognizing and identifying them, women petty traders get protection, both local and central government authorities need to brainstorm come out with an inclusive framework of addressing outstanding challenges so as to pave the way for informal traders growing to the next formalized level,” he said. He went on suggesting that after identifying the petty traders, the next step for the government was to think of a way that will make them graduate into formal business using just available resources to grow even further and expand tax base and creating decent jobs. “For example, if you join between 10 to 15 registered motorcyclists into in single group, that means they will automatically have graduated into a formal business group which will be paying all legal taxes and duties and offer more employment opportunities and therefore contribute in the GDP and accelerate growth,” he cited. Presenting his views on promoting participatory business formalization, Dr Donath Olomi from the Institute of Management and Entrepreneurship Development (IMED), suggested an inclusive approach to managing and transforming informal businesses. “Regulatory simplification, cost reduction and one stop shops which have no difficulty in enforcing compliance provision of work space and special policy for micro enterprises and formation of town vending committees will speed up the process hence, they embrace participation of all key stakeholders,” he said. Another participant, Abdul Nondo who is the former chairman of the Tanzania students Networking Program advised that authorities should embrace approaches which promote business growth to petty traders than leaving such role to private sector. “The government must take the role of imparting business skills and knowledge to petty traders and university students and apply direct business formalization approach like offering at least a yearlong tax holidays to new business comers than hunting them as soon as the open up business to demand tax,” he said. The forum was led by theme: Participatory business formalization: An inclusive approach to managing and transforming informal business.