MARATHON of Mainland Premier League matches continues for Simba, as they take on Biashara United at the Karume Stadium today. Simba are already in Musoma ready for their today’s crunch battle against Amri Said charges as they seek to maintain their charge toward retaining the league title. The match comes just 48 hours after Simba registered a hard fought 2-1 victory over determined Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) side at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Striker Emmanuel Okwi netted the opener in the first half but Hassan Kabunda pulled level for KMC midway in the second half but skipper John Bocco scored a late penalty to give Simba maximum points. Meddie Kagere misses a penalty in the second half. Simba’s Belgian trainer, Patrick Aussems was not impressed by his charges’ display despite the victory but was contented with the results, saying sometimes it is ‘good to win ugly’ to maintain the title charge. Aussems paid tribute to KMC, saying they gave his team a torrid evening and they (Simba) were lucky to come out unscathed. “It was not a good display from us today (Thursday)…we struggled against a very good opponent but the most important thing is that we got three points. “We created problems for ourselves by missing a penalty. It almost got into the heads of players but in the end they managed to calm down, kept their nerves and we scored at the end,” said Aussems. Aussems added; “We knew from the beginning that KMC will give us troubles because they (KMC) are a good team with gifted and quality players. We were a little bit cautious because we were playing with an eye on the game against Biashara United on Saturday (today). Coach Aussems said he will also rotate players in their today’s match against Biashara United to avoid fatigue because his team is playing after every 48 hours to catch up with the rest in the league. Following the victory, Simba have now collected 66 points from 26 matches, moving above Azam FC to second and eight points adrift league leaders Young Africans. However, Yanga and Azam have played 32 matches. Simba went above Azam to second on goal difference because they tie on 66 points but the Msimbazi Reds boast superior goal difference advantage. Simba have six matches in hand compared to title challengers Yanga and Azam. Most of Simba games had to be postponed to pave way for their CAF Champions League campaign in which they reached the quarterfinals stage before being knocked out by Congolese giants TP Mazembe. On his side, KMC Head Coach Etienne Ndayiragije lauded his players for showing good performance against Simba. He said his team made mistakes that led to their defeat, promising to rectify the shortcomings and ensure they win the remaining league matches. Ndayiragije refused to blame match officials despite suggestion from some quarters that referee was biased and favoured Simba, awarding a ‘ghost’ second penalty. KMC remain sixth of the log on 42 points after 32 outings. They have won nine, drawn fifteen and lost eight matches. KMC have netted thirty three and conceded twenty four goals. Meanwhile, the Tanzania football Federation (TFF) has removed the three referees from the list of Mainland Premier League for failure to handle KMC versus Simba match at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Thursday. According to a statement issued yesterday by the TFF Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the trio—Abdallah Kambuzi, Godfrey Msakila and Consolata Lazaro will not officiate at any league match until the end of the season. Kambuzi was the central referee, while Msakila and Lazaro were assistant referees number one and two respectively. TFF has warned referees to observe rules and regulations of the game.