NORWEGIAN government has reaffirmed its continued support to Tanzania in improving the health sector especially in combating Malaria, Tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and malnutrition. The Norwegian Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Elisabeth Jacobsen made the assurance in Dodoma yesterday when she met and talked to the Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu. During their talks which centred on strengthening the country’s health sector, Ms Jacobsen said her government will continue to support Tanzania through the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisations (GAVI). The envoy asserted that through the Global Fund, Tanzania will be in a better position to combat Malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS, becoming one of the countries, which will attain the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Ms Mwalimu requested the envoy to support the government initiatives to empower women through provision of loans to enable them to engage in income generating activities. On nutrition, Ms Mwalimu said that the government through Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre (TFNC) has embarked on nutrition awareness campaign on children under five years to prevent stunted growth, which to a larger extent has affected the growth of children in some regions. Tanzania is among the major beneficiaries of multilateral assistance and global funds, including health, education and infrastructure, to which Norway is a major contributor. Tanzania Malaria Indicator Survey (TMIS) 2017 released last year indicated that the disease prevalence rate dropped from 14.4 per cent in 2015 to 7.3 per cent in 2017. According to the survey, councils with high prevalence and their percentage in brackets were Kakonko (30.8), Kasulu DC (27.6), Kibondo DC (25.4), Kigoma DC (25.1), Buhigwe (24), Geita DC (22.4), Nanyamba TC (19.5), Muleba DC (19.4) and Mtwara DC (19.1). But 14 councils with malaria prevalence less than 0.1 per cent include Mbulu TC, Mbulu DC, Hanang, Siha, Hai, Moshi MC and Mwanga DC. Others are Kondoa TC, Meru DC, Arusha, Arusha DC, Monduli, Ngorongoro DC and Rombo DC. Ms Mwalimu said the government will allocate enough resources to areas with high Malaria prevalence to reduce the infections by 2020. The government has also intensified efforts to combat Tuberculosis (TB) in the country by adopting a new technology for diagnosing the disease and increasing the number of health facilities providing multidrug-resistant TB services. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said that the government had expanded the use of new and modern technology for diagnosing TB. “Currently, most of the health facilities use a GeneXpert machine to detect TB, which provide results within two hours and can test many samples at ago instead of microscopy which provide results after 48 hours,” Ms Mwalimu noted. She said the government had increased the number of GeneXpert machines from 70 in 2015 to 218 by December 2018 and they were distributed to all referral hospitals at regional and district levels as well as some health centres, adding that an order for additional 400 machines has been placed.