AROUND 40 poachers in Busega District have retired from the illegal activity for other income generating activities, appealing to other notorious poachers to surrender for their safety. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ recently, Samwel Kiengu, one of the poachers who has been engaged in the illegal undertaking for more than 34 consecutive years, said there was nothing beneficial poachers can gain than endangering their lives as well as sabotaging the economy. Kiengu was part of the team that included 50 students from the Mwabayanda and Lukungu Primary Schools in the district who toured the Serengeti National Park for a study tour focusing on conservation issues which was organised by Peace for Conservation Organisation. “I have retired from poaching activity which I did since 2003 until 2017 with absolutely no economic gain, rather causing massive loses to the national economy by killing animals in the park,” he regretfully recalled. According to him, bad influence and economic hardship were the main reasons behind many poaching activities, saying that almost all veteran poachers who introduced him to the activity have died while conducting poaching. According to Kiengu, the government should stand firm in netting poachers and force them to abandon the illegal business for the good of wildlife management and related natural resources. He challenged those still engaged in poaching to surrender before they are nabbed by the long arm of the state, saying there are plenty of other legal activities they can chose to engage in. Commenting on the conservation activities alongside the Serengeti, David Kabambo, Director and Founder of Peace for Conservation, a Non-Governmental Organisation actively committed in rescuing poachers for alternative activities, said efforts were going on to make sure poaching becomes history. “We are almost celebrating the end of poaching in the Serengeti, although we are not sure whether we can achieve that by 100 percent. However, our organisation in collaboration with the local community is realizing major changes already,” he said. He mentioned alternative activities that are keeping retired poachers busy today as beekeeping and car wash services as well as education on anti-poaching campaigns to the villages surrounding the Kijereshi Game Reserve and Serengeti National Park. The Community Development Officer at the Busega District Council, Jesca Sarakikya, was of the view that more public education is needed to make sure other youth groups abandoned poaching for other legal economic activities. She said stakeholders like Peace for Conservation were needed in providing life skills and entrepreneurship education to the people living near reserved areas for them to shun the illegal activities and venture into other better options. Over 150 students from different government primary schools in Busega District have received conservation education by means of conducting domestic tourism and study tours in the Serengeti National Park for the last three years.