TANZANIA Golf Union (TGU) patron Mark Bomani said to have been impressed with brilliant comeback of the former World no 1, Tiger Woods who lifted Masters title at Augusta after a 11- year hiccup. Tiger Woods lost his golf prominence due to life ups and downs, something Judge (rtd) Bomani said Tanzanians should take as a big lesson. Bomani said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Woods has proved to everyone that anything is possible if there is a will and determination, hence he advised Tanzanian golfers to take a leaf from him as role model. “When I look at a current Tanzanian situation, I can see it is very possible. I want to take this opportunity to insist to TG U to use his courage and determination to speed up effort in investing towards golf development through junior level programmes. “My appeal to TG U and golfers, let’s learn from Tiger Woods whose golf talent was rediscovered before he was aged five. We can do the same as have so many talents in our country.” Bomani stressed that local golf clubs have also a part to play in this since TG U alone cannot do everything. He said clubs should give to junior players development programmes top priority because they play a big role in ident i f y - ing and groomi n g youth to the professional golfers, with Woods being an inspiration to this. “I said this during 2018 Waitara T r o p h y , and I s t i l l insist a g a i n that TG U and other clubs like Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo have been doing a wonderful job to end notion is a game for rich people and for foreigners by making many young players embrace the sport,” he recalled. He, however, admitted that Tanzanian golf has now moved ahead and is played by all people, but still the efforts needs to be increased so that the country produce golfers of Tiger Woods caliber in future. “Woods victory makes me remember the remarks of the first Kenya G olf Union (KG U) patron, Duncan Ndegwa in his sensation latter he sent to America during a time when Woods was struggling: He said ‘ Tiger Woods will overcome all challenges and return to his best’.” Bomani said it is good that Woods is now near to reach a 18-major title record set by US legend Jack Nicklaus who last year made a tourist visit to Tanzania. He said it was a privilege to meet Nicklaus and chart with him regarding golf development with other sports officials. Tiger Woods looked a potential heir to Jack Nicklaus legacy in golf and that is counted by winning major golf titles. Then a long drought and a debilitating back injury put that quest heavily in doubt. Now that Woods ended his 11-year majors drought by capturing the 2019 Masters, suddenly, the 18-grand slam target doesn’t look so farfetched.