A LOCAL insurance brokerage firm, Howden Puri, is set to launch a cyber-risk insurance product later this year to focus on offering cyber security service for companies, organizations and individual clients in Tanzania. The firm’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Tanzania will become the first country in Africa to access such latest cyber product designed to offer protection against massive cyber breach, business interruption and loss of brand value and more. “Tanzania should be proud that we are now advancing at the same pace as the rest of the world in terms of innovation. This product that we will bring to the market is already being used by companies around the world and offered by the Howden Broking G roup. There is a plan to extend the Cyber risk product to other East African countries like Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda in the future,” he said during the seminar on Cyber Risk organized by Howden Puri and the British business G roup. The world is currently almost all digital with technological advancements such as the cloud system to name one that most corporate companies now use to store their data and hence at risk of being attacked by hackers. “I acknowledge that there are might be other cyber products in Africa already, but they are not offering the product in the way we are proposing. Further product specifications and what it will cover as well as the pricing will be announced in the near future as well,” said Mr Puri. In his presentation through a short film titled ‘ Cyber Hurricane’ during the seminar on Tuesday night, the firm’s G lobal Head of Cyber, Mr Shay Simkin warned that the companies and organizations were at high risk of being hacked due to an increasing number of cyber-attacks attributable to technology advancement. “There are external and internal cyber mechanisms such as malware, cybercrime that impose cyber threats for companies around the World. Therefore, it is surely a wakeup call for the organizations to make sure they secure cyber insurance in order to remain secure,” said Mr Simkin. Referring to the other cyber threats that can expose the companies being hacked, the cyber expert further pointed out that improper disposal of electronic devices and lack of education and awareness among employees could attribute to cyber-attacks.