MEMBERS of small businesses under Vibindo society have started to receive health insurance covers as part of efforts to promote universal healthcare to small-scale entrepreneurs. Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Simbeye (pictured) handed 100 vibindo society members health insurance covers from Resolution Insurance in Dar es Salaam on Friday. He said the health insurance coverage to vibindo society members were part of efforts to take on board small-scale traders in universal health coverage. “No any country can develop without healthy human resource, and it should be remembered that private sector holds a good number of people compared to public,” he said during the handover ceremony of the health insurance cards. “Health insurance is of most importance and that is why we get in to business with Resolution Insurance, which is a private owned firm, for reliable health services,” said Mr Simbeye. Having connected all Vibindo members to health insurance services, the next is to protect their capital, the step that will attract many entrepreneurs to join the Society’s groups and fully engage in the business, he said. Commenting on the reliability and limitations of Resolution Insurance’s health services, the Sales Coordinator, Mr Alphonce Michael said that, a member has access to the services in both public and private health centres, country-wide, and it covers for any type of health problems. He said that Resolute Insurance was already engaged into business with over 240 hospitals, country-wide, and negotiations were on progress with more hospitals so as to expand the scope to all clients. For a-12-month health services, Vibindo members have to pay 158,000/- for a-four member family and 86,000/- for a single person, said Mr Michael, adding that admitted patients will not exceed 3m/- per year, the limit for out-patients is 1m/- and 500,000/- will be given as maternity benefits. Vibindo Chairperson, Mr Gaston Kikuwi said that the Society was making efforts to make sure that all 670 entrepreneurship groups with 67, 000 members countrywide are covered. “We make health insurance a must because nobody knows when she/he will get sick and to what extent. Most of small-scale entrepreneurs are suffering from small capitals, which can easily perish once one falls sick without health insurance. We therefore protect our members’ health and capital, with regard that the contribution of private sector to national economy is huge. Sustaining and expanding it therefore is our priority” he said.