A BRACE from Heritier Makambo helped Young Africans beat African Lyon at C C M Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza yesterday; the win placed them 71-point ahead at Premier League table. It was Makambo’s 14th goal of the season and his second brace since landing at the club this season and is he still the current team’s top goal scorer. Both goals were netted in the first half with the opener being orchestrated by central defender Kelvin Yondani, who played a long ball picking the Congolese striker who was well placed in the box and fired his side ahead in just 5th minute of the first half. Veteran midfielder Haruna Moshi created the second and the winner in the 31st minute thanks to his well taken set-piece which made Makambo to win free header getting the better of Lyon defenders who were easily beaten in their box. The results continued to pile pressure on the African Lyon who are slowly heading towards the relegation door as they still remain glued to the bottom of the table with 22 points from 33 matches. They have lost more matches than any other team so far in the campaign. Other three teams which are on the blink to kiss goodbye to the top flight league this season are Biashara United, Ruvu Shooting and Kagera Sugar. On the other hand, Mbao FC, Alliance, Mwadui and Mbeya City will be forced to win their upcoming fixtures at all cost to return into the competition next season. It was Yanga who enjoyed the big share of the match and looked a transformed side likely to get the much needed victory to enable them continue remaining firm at the top of the table. Right back Juma Abdul who returned to action after an extended period of absence due to injury and replaced Paul Godfrey wore the captain armband. He was influential at the backline partnering well with Kelvin Yondani, Andrew Vincent and Gadiel Micheal. As the half time elapsed, Yanga went into the change room heads up while African Lyon had a task to make sure that they shrug off the 2-0 deficit in the last half. The second half began on top foot with the hosts exploring their opponents from every possible angle in an effort to claim the third goal but African Lyon defended pretty well. However, coach Mwinyi Zahera was forced to make abrupt substitution in the 52nd minute when injured Yondani was stretched off the pitch for Said Juma whose height necessitated him to win most of the aerial balls. A glittering chance to snatch the third goal for Yanga came in the 56th minute with Mrisho Ngassa pulling the trigger inside Lyon box but his bullet was saved by Lyon’s keeper while Vincent Andrew was late to connect the rebound ball. In the 71st minute, Makambo wasted the chance to score a possible hat-trick when his smartly played left-footed shot slightly missed the intended target to the relief of the visitors.