SIMBA’s quest to win 12th consecutive matches in the Mainland Premier League, hit a brick wall yesterday after a surprise 2-1 defeat at the hands of Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba yesterday. First half goals by Ramadhani Kapera and Kassim Hamis gave the hosts a deserved lead but Emmanuel Okwi reduced the margin in the second half. The defeat left still settled third on 60 points from 24 games. However, they still have eight matches in hand compared to league leaders, Young Africans, who have 74 points from 32 games. The Msimbazi Reds are just six points adrift second placed Azam, who have also played 32 outings. For Kagera Sugar, the victory lifted the Mecky Maxime charges to the 10th slot of the log from the previous 17th after collecting 41 points from 33 matches. Simba, who came into the match fresh from their hard fought 2-1 win over Coastal Union at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Wednesday, were hunting for 12th back to back victory in the league but found the going tough. Industrious striker Kapera was man of the match as he unsettled Simba defenders, stretching them to the limit especially in the first 45 opening minutes. The hosts started on a front foot and just two minutes into the game, Kapera headed wide a corner kick well taken by David Luhende. A minute later, Paul Ngalyoma had the better of central defender, Paul Bukaba after being set up by Kapera but his shot sailed wide. Kagera Sugar were enjoying more possession and in the 8th minute, Ally Ramadhani’s set piece forced goalkeeper, Aishi Manula to a full stretch to punch it away for an abortive corner kick. After several near misses, Kagera Sugar found the breakthrough in the 17th minute when Kassim Hamis tapped home a cross in from lethal striker Kapera. In the 22nd minute, Lugende’s shot from a short corner kick almost turned into the back of the net but Manula took a spring leap to fingertip the ball away. In the 25th minute Luhende crossed in but Nonga drifted his shot wide as Simba were the second best with the hosts looking a more dominant side. Kagera threatened going forward as Simba lacked ideas. Okwi sent a cracking shot in the 34th minute only to see his shot punched for an abortive corner kick by goalkeeper Said Kipao. It was 2-0 four minutes before the break, when Zana Coulibaly gave space and time for Ally Ramadhani to take a cross from a short corner kick that was perfectly headed home by Kapera. After the break, Simba brought in Captain John Bocco for Haruna Niyonzima, while James Kotei was later replaced by Hassan Dilunga as Patrick Aussems charges slightly came into the picture. In the 63rd minute, Okwi pulled one back for Simba, finishing off from a clever assist by Clatous Chama, for his eighth goal of the season. For Zambian virtuoso midfielder, it was his seventh assist in the campaign. After testing the blood, Simba made relentless efforts in the last 15 minutes to rescue a point with Bocco constantly penetrating the Kagera Sugar defence but his efforts proved futile, while deadly striker, Meddie Kagere had uncharacteristically quiet game yesterday. In the 72nd minute, Paul Bukaba almost pulled level; arriving at Chama’s corner kick but his powerful header came off the top bar with keeper Kipao well beaten.