PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday directed the Tanzania Atomic Energy Commission (TAEC) to eliminate bureaucratic tendencies by its inspectors at the country’s exit and entry points. The premier observed that the conduct by the commission’s staff was scaring away investors, consequently critically compromising the country’s economic prospects. He described the processes of controlling radiation contamination in imported goods and products as cumbersome, thus frustrating the investors. “You need to conduct yourselves professionally, bureaucratic tendencies will not promote trade, but scare away investors instead,” observed the PM shortly before inaugurating the state-of-the-art laboratory at the Arusha based commission in Njiro. The premier revealed that the commission was a subject of complaints from investors about the alleged delay in inspecting products for radiation contamination. He urged the commission to expedite inspections at border posts to facilitate trade and economic growth. “I urge the officers to avoid bureaucracy in the products inspection processes,” he said. The premier singled out inspectors from the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) to be behind the frustrations that investors and traders face at the country’s entry and exit points. In the same vein, Mr Majaliwa challenged the commission to establish research reactors in different parts of the country as the country sets it sights of meeting the threshold of becoming semi-industrialised by 2025. The PM pointed out that Tanzania was now taking a lead role on the continent as far as nuclear and atomic energy was concerned, adding that the East African nation’s wealth in mineral deposits strengthened its quest to become an industrialised economy. “Tanzania’s wealth in mineral deposits cannot be overlooked, with such amount of wealth, our country can possibly sell such deposits to other parts of the world as well as establish nuclear plants in several parts of the country,” he emphasized. Available data indicate that 58.2 per cent of its land contains mineral deposits, particularly nuclear energy. Such deposits are said to be found in Mkuyu, Madaba, Nachingwea, Mbulu, Simanjiro, Minjingu and parts of rural Songea. The prime minister added that Tanzania had bolstered its radiation safety precautions following the commissioning of the state-of-theart laboratory. He noted that the facility will provide TAEC with special analytical equipment to increase their capabilities in dosimetry and radiation protection as well as environmental sampling and nuclear safeguards. Earlier, he told more than 46 participants of the second joint meeting of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) nuclear regulator network and the fifth steering committee of project MC.01/158, that the modern lab will enhance the country’s security against nuclear threats which have adverse effects on humankind. The commissioning of the 2.5bn/= worth lab will see other EAC and SADC countries bring in their samples for analysis at the fully furnished facility in Arusha. The European Union (EU) is also credited for funding the project to the tune of 7.5bn in lab equipment and training of TAEC staff. Established by the Act of Parliament referred to as the Atomic Energy Act number 7 of 2003, TAEC is among other things mandated to provide regulatory and radiation protection services and coordinate, monitor, and promote peaceful use of nuclear Science and Technology in the country.