FINALLY Serengeti District Council Executive Director (DED), Eng. Juma Hamsini has taken measures to prevent leakage and misuse of billions of shillings generated by Ikona Wildlife Management Area (WMA). The country’s richest WMA earns 3 bn/-every year from seven tourism investors with a substantial amount coming from Singita Grumeti. The ‘Daily News’ understands that the WMA has received 1,529,289 US dollars (over 3.5 billion shillings), from Singita Grumeti between 2014 and 2018 alone. Not less than 50 percent of the money is supposed to be invested on development projects in five villages that formed the WMA in 2007. The villages are Robanda, Natta, Nyichoka, Makundusi and Park Nyigoti. “I am not satisfied with the way the WMA management is spending its revenue and I have halted endorsement of part of its expenditure. I am only endorsing staff salaries and the allocation that goes to the five villages,” added the Serengeti DED. The issue of how the WMA’s revenue is misused was raised by a citizen to President John Magufuli, when he was in a working tour in Mara Region last year in September at Natta village stopover. The head of state ordered actions against leaders misusing the funds meant to transform lives of ordinary citizens. According to Eng. Hamsini the WMA has only been sending 50 percent of its revenue to the five villages, and consuming the remaining 50 percent. “The thing is that the WMA management is obliged to allocate not less than 50 per cent of its revenue on development to the people, but it has never spent 65 or 75 percent or even 50.00 percent on development. That is why I have taken actions,” Eng. Hamsini pointed . “After sending the 50 percent to the villages (WMA), is remaining with huge money (about 1.5 bn/-), and they have never even drilled a single borehole for the people, and they have nothing to showcase as the WMA,” he pointed out. On his side, the WMA Secretary Mr Yusufu Manyanda confirmed that they generated over 3 bn/-in 2017/2018 financial year alone. “We earned more than 3 bn/-in the last financial year (2017/2018) and this financial year (2018/2019), we have already earned over 2 bn/-,” Mr Manyanda said when reached for a comment. Besides Singita Grumeti, Mr Manyanda named other tourism companies that have contracts with the WMA as Mount Kilimanjaro, Serengeti Simba Lodge, Rough Tracks (Eco Lodge), Zara International Agency, Moivaro and Thompson. Covering 243.2 square kilometres, the IKona WMA borders Serengeti National Park and Ikorongo/ Grumeti Game Reserves. Thus, the WMA forms integral part of the Serengeti eco-system and it is home to beautiful animals, which includes Elephants, Buffalos, Giraffes, Wildebeest and Zebras. “Out of 243 square of the WMA 149 is under Singita Grumeti and in this case the huge revenue that we earn comes from Singita Grumeti. The other six tourism companies share a piece of the WMA which is about 93 square kilometers,” added the WMA Secretary. Mr Manyanda said 50 per cent of the WMA’s revenue goes to the five villages with the aim of funding development projects, and the remaining 50 percent is spent on conservation activities, salaries and other administration issues of the WMA. However, the Serengeti DED insisted that the WMA should increase its budget on development matters and not otherwise. “They (WMA), are remaining with a lot of money that do not support development. They must increase development budget” Eng Hamsini hinted. The director said following his interventions, the 50 per cent that goes to the villages has started showing positive impacts on the lives of citizens in the five rural villages through implementation of their communities’ development projects especially in education and health getting priority. The Serengeti director said his decision to stop part of the WMA expenditure was also due to their unsatisfactory work in preventing poaching acts within the WMA. “Despite that the WMA allocates huge amount of money on conservation and prevention of wild animals from destroying crop farms in the neighbouring villages, poaching incidences and marauding animals, which still remain the biggest problem in the area. “The WMA have the responsibility to prevent rampaging Elephants and poaching, but the incidences still persist in their area,” said Eng. Hamsini. Some of the WMA’s Village Game Scouts (VGS), had also been caught and taken to a court in Mugumu, where they are facing poaching, according to police force in Serengeti. Expounding, he said that a Toyota Land Cruiser Pick Up belonging to the WMA had been impounded after it was linked with transportation of game meat locally known as vimoro, quoting the Serengeti Officer Commanding District (OCD), SP Mathew Mgema speech. “The suspects are facing poaching charges in court and the WMA vehicle is being withheld awaiting the outcome of the court ruling,” the SP Mgema was quoted to have said, while presiding over a special antipoaching course closure, that involved 25 VGS from the WMA inside recently.