KEY players on the gaming industry have implored the government to abolish the winning tax in a bid to unlock the sector’s potential and spur the economy. Tanzania Sports Betting Association (TSBA) pleaded with the government to focus on collecting taxes through the gross gaming revenues instead. TSBA Chairman Jimmy Keneth said that winning tax waiver would offer operators breathing space to attract responsible customers and grow their businesses and spur economy. “The gaming industry contributed a lot to the national economy in 2017/2018. The largest contributor, after SMS lottery, to this increase has been the sports betting platform, which contributed 14bn/- to the government coffers in 2017/2018 fiscal year,” he said. Tanzania Gaming Board (TGB) data show an upsurge on tax collections between 2012/2013 and 2017/2018 from the industry when revenue jumped from 11.4bn/- to 79.1bn/-, registering a 606 per cent increase during the period under review. “Despite this massive contribution, there are increasing concerns over the government’s approach in taxing the sports betting inadvertently hurting and inhibiting the industry’s impressive potential for growth,” Mr Keneth said. The existing fiscal regime impedes the core business model of operators in the industry, he observed. TGB and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) substantially reduce prospective payouts when they tax winners, TSBA chief said. “The Winnings Tax actually punishes players willing to bet through legitimate channels.” “The reduced earnings from winnings dissuade players from betting through licenced operators, persuading them to migrate to unregistered and unlicenced platforms where they can capture their entire winnings,” he said. In the advent of technology, platforms operating outside the sphere of the local authorities are not only restricted to the Tanzanian jurisdiction, but also to international platforms that capture revenues from different territories. “Migration to unlicenced platforms poses challenges to the local authorities on several fronts. Much as the unlicenced platforms operate outside the sphere of local authorities, they will, in the first place, significantly reduce the channelling rate,” Mr Keneth clarified. “Secondly, the local authorities stand to lose potential Gross Gaming Revenue (GGR) generated from unlicenced and unregistered operators”. Thirdly, as long as there will be unlicenced operators outside the watchful eye of the regulator, unsafe, unregulated and dangerous practices may go unnoticed and harm players, who would have, otherwise, been absolved from such risks. “The cumulative impact of these actions may not only deter new entrants, but also lose their confidence in the ability of the regulator to curb illicit and unregulated betting,” he cautioned. An analysis of the Gaming Board data shows the rate with which new players are migrating to licenced platforms is already slowing down, as growing taxes on winnings show a marked decline. For instance, taxes on winnings grew by 94.7 per cent between 2015/16 when they were introduced and 2016/2017. However, the growth rate decelerated to 41.1 per cent between 2016/2017 and 2017/2018. “With the maintenance of the existing tax regime, this deceleration may actually turn into a reduction in taxes as players opt against betting on registered platforms,” he cautioned. The former Director General of TGB who is now into private betting operations with SportPesa Ltd, Mr Abbas Tarimba, sees the tax on winning as being unfair to players. “Players spend more than what they win on the average, this means we are taxing the losers and not the gainers,” Mr Tarimba explained, stressing that in fairness, one has to earn to be taxed; in gaming the losers are not recognised hence cannot be offset from the winnings. He said gaming was an economic activity coupled with entertainment, so it would be fair to be taxed more or less what other businesses entail.