THE Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal lodged by two people over ownership of a 2,000 hectare farm allocated in Mheza District in Tanga Region for sisal cultivation. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Shaban Lila and Rehema Mkuye ruled against the two naming them as Jafari Sinai and Faraji Fadhili, as appellants, who held that the appeal they had lodged in attempt to fault findings of the High Court at Tanga Registry lacked merits. “We fully associate ourselves with the findings of the trial court and, accordingly, we find this appeal to be bereft of merits. In fact, the appeal is hereby dismissed without costs,” the justices declared. The respondents in the appeal were Silver General Distributors Limited, Kumbukumbu Sisal Estates Limited, Muheza District Council and Commissioner for Land, Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements Development and the Attorney General. During the hearing of the appeal, the appellants had advanced seven grounds of appeal to oppose the High Court findings, including to have erred in law and ordering them to vacate the plot without taking into consideration that they had already been evicted at the time of judgment. In their judgment delivered in Tanga recently, the justices of the appeals court ruled, among others, that when addressing the issues of ownership and the re-survey of the land, the trial judge properly directed himself. “There was, so to speak, ample evidence to support the finding that (Kumbukumbu Sisal Estates Limited) is the lawful owner of the suit land. To this end, we fully associate ourselves with the findings of the trial judge on both the ownership of the suit land and the re-survey exercise,” they said. This appeal originates from a dispute over ownership of a farm known as Kumburu Sisal Estate which is situated in Muheza District. The farm is registered under a Certificate of Occupancy with Title No. 17281 and entered as Land Office No. 20627, farm No. 686. In the High Court of Tanzania (Land Division), at Tanga Registry, Silver General Distributors Limited, Kumbukumbu Sisal Estates instituted Land Case No. 6 of 2013 over ownership of the suit land. Originally, the respondents had enjoined 20 defendants including the appellants. However, subsequent to an out of court settlement, Silver General Distributors Limited, Kumbukumbu Sisal Estates withdrew their claims against all the defendants, save for the appellants. More particularly, the plaintiff’s claim was that subsequent to the execution of an asset sale agreement on December 1, 1988, Silver General Company purchased the suit land from the government and that the same was comprised of 2,000 hectares of Sisal farmland with all exhausted improvements thereon.