TANZANIA should promote beach tourism to complement wildlife safari so as to attract more foreign visitors mostly from the European nations and capitalise on the booming global industry, a University of Dar es Salaam scholar has advised. Prof Wineaster Anderson of the University of Dar es Salaam Business School (UDBS) told the `Daily News’ that more efforts are needed to diversify into areas beyond wildlife, to untapped cultural and coastal resource. “Tanzania has a total of 1,440km Long beach and sunshine which are important boosters for sand, sun and boating loving tourists, but this potential resource yet to be utilised to its full potential unlike the mainland safaris of visiting national parks and game reserves,” she said. Tourism is the main source of hard currency in Tanzania, best known for its beaches, wildlife safaris and Mount Kilimanjaro. Prof Anderson said efforts in reviving the aviation sector were vital because it plays a central role in supporting tourism. A vibrant air transport would help to link different tourist attractions and make it easier for visitors to enjoy complete packages. She said that other countries with similar beaches along the Indian Ocean coastline like Kenya, Botswana, Namibia and South Africa were earning more revenues due to promotion but Tanzania had an edge over others because of abundant tourist attractions as well as prevailing peace and security. “Apart from being peaceful and safe, the country is a home of Mount Kilimanjaro and national parks which are ranked among the world wonders, which if well connected with the beach tourism through supportive infrastructure, more inflow of foreign currency was to be expected.” According to the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) Tanzania’s tourism industry is expected to be among one of the world’s fastest-growing over the next decade as the country starts to capitalise on its huge potential, and private and public investments strengthen its advantages as a destination. The WTTC is bullish about the outlook for Tanzania’s tourism industry. It forecasts that arrivals will rise to 2.267m by 2027. The government has intensified promotion of tourism not only to core tourism markets – such as the US, the UK, France, Germany and Italy – but also in emerging tourism markets, including China, Russia and Israel. About 1,000 Israelis arrived in the country over the weekend. Earnings from tourism jumped by 7.13 per cent last year, attributed to an increase in arrivals from foreign visitors. Revenues from tourism reached 2.43 billion US dollars in 2018, up from 2.19 billion US dollars in 2017, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said in a presentation in the Parliament. Tourist arrivals reached 1.49 million last year, compared with 1.33 million a year ago, he said.