VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan (pictured) has challenged Zanzibaris, leaders and Tanzanians in general to assess themselves whether their conduct and leadership demonstrates love of the founding fathers of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Abeid Amani Karume. “A lot has been done by our beloved leaders Nyerere and Karume. We must remember and honour them by following their footsteps,” Ms Samia said yesterday in her speech when gracing the opening of the 2nd forum on Karume Day held at Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Academy (MNMA), Bububu (Zanzibar) Campus. She said ordinary citizens and leaders at all levels had been good at praising them as excellent and hardworking leaders, who had brought about memorable changes in the development of our countries, but praises had not been translated into actions. The forum, organised by MNMA, was intended to mark the 47th anniversary without Karume, who was assassinated on April 7, 1972. Several activities have been organised to mark Karume Day, whose climax is tomorrow, when national leaders from both the Union government and Zanzibar would join residents to pray for the fallen hero. The Vice-President mentioned that Karume practised good leadership with focus on improving people’s lives especially the provision of water, free education, healthcare, housing, improving agriculture by allocating to each citizen three acres, as par the Afro-Shiraz Party (ASP) manifesto. “Karume was also good at protecting national resources, promoting industries, unity among people, including the one-party system so that citizens remain united, observing and respecting human rights and fighting against corruption,” Ms Hassan said, adding; “we have not been doing enough to inherit and follow the footsteps of our leaders.” She noted that people in the country, including some leaders in different public offices, were still delaying development through causing conflicts, corruption, abuse of office and mismanagement of resources contrary to public expectations. “We must change to move forward,” she said at the forum also attended by local and government leaders, who heard different papers (topics) on accountability, volunteerism, good leadership and what needed to be learned from Karume. MNMA Rector, Prof Shadrack Mwakalila, thanked the government for supporting his institution, while Mr Steven Wasira, the board chairperson of the academy appealed to the Vice-President to upgrade the college to a fully-fledged university and the government to use the facility to train local leaders on good leadership.