ZANZIBAR President Ali Mohamed Shein yesterday addressed the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA) to celebrate its 14th graduation, commending the public higher learning institution for good work in increasing skilled labour in the country. “I commend SUZA. We now have enough experts in Kiswahili language ready to work in Africa and beyond. But I am also impressed with an increase in the number of medical doctors. We are also beating the target of 1:6,000 patients ratio set by ASP Party in 1964 after the Revolution,” Dr Shein said. He said 25 medical students, who graduated yesterday as Doctor of Medicine had enabled Zanzibar to have one medical doctor to 6,435 patients (1: 6,435) compared to 1: 23,000 ratio in 1997. “This is a big achievement and it is the implementation of Afro Shirazi Party (ASP)’s first manifesto. After a long period of struggle, we are now on track.” A total of 1,940 students graduated in different courses with females leading (56 per cent of the graduates). The President urged them to fight for self-employment in entrepreneurship to minimise the current national and global job crisis. He said he was also happy to be informed that 53 students graduated in apprenticeship in tourism. He, however, asked academicians to find a better Kiswahili word for apprenticeship instead of ‘Uanagenzi’, arguing that it did not sound well particularly in promoting apprenticeship. “We can look for a better word that means the same.” Talking to enthusiastic graduates companied by lecturers, friends and parents, Dr Shein said Zanzibar was proud of having many experts in Kiswahili language with increasing PhD holders in the language. The President also expressed he was happy with SUZA plans to improve its buildings and the construction of 12 new building aiming at improving a learning environment for students, lecturers and researchers. The university’s development also include introducing new programmes such as DSc in nursing and a degree in agriculture as Kizimbani Agriculture and Research Institute becomes part of SUZA. The graduation was also an opportunity for Dr Shein to remind universities in the country about the importance of conducting researches, say there was no way higher learning institutes could move forward without researches and without utilising information and communication technology (ICT). Minister for Education and Vocational Training Riziki Pembe Juma said her ministry, in collaboration with development partners and friends, had been working hard to ensure the education sector achieved its development goals.