AS the number of cargo ships docking at the Dar es Salaam Port increases, the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has strongly warned public and private entities against their failure to keep pace with TPA standards and performance. For TPA to operate smoothly some other government institutions, the private sector and banks are required to provide services to customers, but failure by such entities to comply with operational requirements has, to a certain extent, been affecting TPA performance. Following the surge in the number of cargo ships at Dar es Salaam Port, TPA resorted to offer services 24 hours per day, including weekends and public holidays, but supporting entities have failed to comply with the changes. TPA Director General Deusdedit Kakoko issued the warning in Dar es Salaam yesterday after complaints from customers. He said those defying the warning would be reported to their superiors forfurther action. Mr Kakoko also pointed out that institutions such as banks and other private companies defying the warning would be suspended from operating at the port. "We will devise a plan to monitor all offices, including 34 government bodies operating at the port. "We are confident that heads of various institutions will accord maximum cooperation, but failure to act, we are going to report the matter to the authority that issued the directive," said Mr Kakoko. According to him, TPA has frequently received complaints from customers and most of the time such criticisms have nothing to do with them directly, but rather their partners. The director advised them to allocate shifts, which would allow the offices to operate in a 24-hour a day arrangement. Mr Kakoko also directed the Tanzania Transporter Association (TAT), Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (Taffa) and the Tanzania Truck Owners Association (Tatoa), among others,to carry out their operations early in the day rather than run up and down during peak hours to clear vehicles. "I am aware of the challenge, which existed at Gate No 5 related to tracking systems, but we have already addressed the issue. For our part as TPA, we are strongly committed to strengthening security and safety at all times. "Recently, we received reports of malicious intention to illegally remove containers at the port and some goods destined to other countries will be diverted within the country," noted the DG. He confirmed similar cases occurred in the past pledging to deal with anyone, who would be caught doing so. "We are working closely with security organs in all regions from Dar es Salaam to Tunduma, Kabanga, Rusumo, Mtukula and Kigoma. Security has been intensified throughout the way and violators are being dealt with,” he noted. He acknowledged support from regional commissioners and all law enforcement organs. Speaking on an increase in the number of ships, the DG said in early March the port had been receiving about 10 ships, but the number had steadily increased to 22 ships. As such, they had opened Berth No 1, which was undergoing expansion, when a 170-metre vessel had brought machines for Kinyerezi II Power Project. Mr Kakoko revealed that the berth was 15.5 metres long and, therefore, the port was capable of handling all ships at the port. He also revealed that they had expanded their operations to Kitopeni, which had not been in operation since the first phase government of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. He added that the area was going to be used as a yard for vehicles due to an increase in the number of vehicles. "Formerly, the port was receiving 180,000 vehicles, but the number dropped to 110,000. Last year it was about 50,000 vehicles, but it has gone up to 90,000 vehicles. The number of vehicles is expected to rise to 200,000, when we open Loro Vehicle Berth," the DG added. Mr Kakoko also observed that they had started resolving the Tanzania International Container Terminal Services Ltd (TICTS) issue related to congestion of cargo destined to DRC.