OVER six tonnes of second hand pants have been confiscated and destroyed during market surveillance conducted by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in the Lake Zone this week. Marketing surveillance particularly in Mwanza City, Kahama District in Shinyanga Region and Musoma Municipal Council in Mara Region showed massive sales of substandard pants that pose serious health risks to users. Speaking on Thursday, TBS Inspection Officer, Baraka Mbajige said about 3 tonnes of second hand pants were destroyed at Buhongwa Dump site in the city. He said inspections would be maintained countrywide and the culprits would be arrested and subjected to heavy fines apart from other legal measures. “We have been providing public education on this matter for at least 15 years, asking dealers of substandard pants to stop that business and voluntarily surrender such goods, but without success,” he said. It was due to this that TBS has decided to inspect all markets in both urban and rural areas to ensure all substandard pants are removed and dealers are held accountable. He noted that Kagera and Simiyu regions had relatively fewer traders of second hand pants, thanks to cooperation of the leaders of traders’ associations, who had been sensitising their members to engage in legal business. However, the situation was bad in Mwanza, Kahama and Musoma with Mr Mbajige saying in Kahama Town alone a consignment of 3 tonnes of second hand pants was confiscated and would soon be set on fire. He said ongoing operations on substandard clothes were in accordance with the enforcement of the requirements of the Standards Act, which regulates used garments. TBS Marketing Officer, Debora Haule said the bureau had made efforts to reach members of the public using different approaches, including community radios for timely information dissemination across the country. “So, we launched this market surveillance operations last year and we are set to maintain them until we are satisfied that all markets are free from substandard pants and in doing so public education through community radios will be extended,” she said.