NIGERIA’S Golden Eaglets suffered a shocking 10-9 defeat at the hands of G uinea’s Junior Sylis in a thrilling penalty match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The first semifinal clash of the ongoing U-17 Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam ended in a barren draw and went straight into penalty shoot-outs. It was witnessed by President of the Confederation of African Football (CAF), Ahmad Ahmad, who returned to Dar es Salaam, Tanzania on Tuesday to grace the knock out stage of the tournament hosted in the country for the first time ever. Ogaga Oduko lost his kick in a thrilling penalty session. Fresh off his goalscoring showing against Uganda, Ibraheem Jabaar kept his spot in the lineup, with Wisdom Ubani leading the line. The Guineans dominated the early proceedings and almost made it count through Algassime Bah. Stephen Sunday fingertip save pushed the rasping effort onto the crossbar. In the 12th minute, Ubani had the first crack at goal for the G olden Eaglets, but saw his fierce effort well wide off the mark. In a rather uncharacteristic manner, Manu G arba’s side would relent on counters with the Junior Sylis winning the most of the battles and, thus, dictating the tempo of the game. It was on one of such breakaways that Nigeria came closest to grabbing the curtain raiser. Ubani’s finish, after being released at the right side of the box by Akinkunmi Amoo, beat Sekou Camara but was whiskers off the target. Amoo, who was subbed off in the last game due to an injury concern, had Olakunle Olusegun come in his stead before half time, forcing G arba into a tactical rejig. With Nigeria settling into their shell in the second half, Ubani was denied a goal after Sekou Camara closed in on the striker. Fawaz tested the G uinean goal with a long-range effort that was slightly off target. Again, Bah tried his luck from way out but could not keep his shot at Nigeria post low enough. Ubani displayed brilliant holdup play to carve out a chance for himself, but dragged his shot wide off the target before seeing a lovely free-kick deflected to the crossbar. Nigeria had late chances to win the game but the Guineans held firm to extend the game to penalty shootouts. After a succession of topnotch penalty kicks, left-back Oduko flashed his effort high to gift G uinea U17 a spot in the final. Yesterday, President Ahmad also witnessed the second semifinal between Angola and Cameroon at the same venue later evening. G oing into the game Angola’s coach Pedro Simao Dos Santos has made it clear his boys have what it takes to stop Cameroon. To reach the final Angola started with a 1-0 win over Uganda before they lost by the same score to Nigeria. They finished off in style in G roup A with a 4-2 thumping of the Serengeti Boys. Cameroon were the first team to make it to the last four. They kick started their G roup B campaign with a 2-0 victory over G uinea and then stopped Morocco 2-1 before settling for a goalless draw against Senegal.