FARMERS have been advised to use irrigation guidelines and manual to facilitate increased crop yields in order to meet food demand in the country as well as raw materials for industries. Speaking during the seventh steering committee meeting, the National Irrigation Commission (NIRC) Assistant Director for Research and Technology Promotion, Mr Anthony Nyarubamba, said reliable raw materials for industrial production can be availed if farmers opt for irrigation farming. For the development of the irrigation sector, he said, they have developed comprehensive guidelines to manage irrigation schemes countrywide, which, if well observed, would guarantee increased productivity and thus guarantee availability of raw materials, to match with the country’s industrial economic status ambition. “With irrigation farming, you can plant according to the market needs and industrial raw materials availability will be continuously guaranteed,” said Mr Nyarubamba. Making the revelation recently in Dar es Salaam at their sixth steering committee meeting, NIRC Assistant Director for Research and Technology Promotion, Anthony Nyarubamba, said guidelines would be helpful in the construction of quality irrigation facilities in all schemes in the country. During the meeting, participants in which included coordinators from seven irrigation zones and district engineers, discussed best practices for promoting integrated water resources management for increased and sustainable agricultural production, productivity, ensuring food security, poverty reduction and national economic development. He was delighted by how farmers were positive towards the irrigation guidelines and their involvement in making the project sustainable by contributing five per cent of their farm produce for infrastructure maintenance and development. The meeting also discussed progress of the capacity development of the staff to promote irrigation schemes in the District Agriculture Development Plans Phase II (TANCAID II) projects. “After having developed the comprehensive guidelines for the construction of irrigation facilities, operation and maintenance, we don’t expect any facility to be built below standards,” said Mr Nyarubamba . He said the guidelines would aim at supporting ‘manageable small-scale irrigation schemes’ in the districts, and have four parts - formulation, implementation, maintenance and training. During implementation, the guidelines would take on board district agriculture development officers, district subject matter specialists, district irrigation staff and farmers. Others are communities directly involved in formulation, implementation, operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes. On his part, the NIRC Acting Director for Planning, Designing and Coordination of Private Sector and Project Manager, Eng Muyenjwa Maugo, said the development of the guidelines formed part of a four-year project for the Capacity Development for the Promotion of Irrigation Schemes’ implementation under the District Agriculture Development Plans Phase II (TANCAID II) being supported by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Much stress laid on irrigation guidelines TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) has received 297m/- from Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) for renovation of the laboratory at its Makutupora Centre. Head of TARI Makutupora Centre, Dr Cornel Masawe, noted during a tour here yesterday that the project to renovate the laboratory was complete by 90 per cent. Equipped with modern research apparatus, it will focus on grape farming. “The facility will help farmers produce grapes with recommended sugar content to enable wine making companies to produce best wines,” Dr Masawe said. Dr Masawe explained further that plans were underway to embark on a special training programme which would include a series of theoretical and practical training to equip farmers and extension officers with key knowledge on how to grow grapes profitably. “The initiative will also see grape farmers empowered with modern ways of processing grapes into juice,” he said. Dr Masawe said the programme would also support research projects to produce varieties of best grape seeds, adding that TARI had already started to disseminate knowledge on agronomic practices among grape farmers and extension officers in Bunda, Geita and Same districts. The supervisor of the grape demonstration farm at the centre, Mr Richard Malle, urged farmers to use the centre to get knowledge on modern farming techniques, saying the centre had a good number of experts in the cash crop. He underscored the need for the government to continue investing heavily in grape farming, noting that Tanzania had ideal weather for facilitating two grape harvesting seasons a year. Mr Malle observed that the country had ideal weather for producing grapes with high sugar content, which was ideal for wine making. The institute’s spokesperson, Mr Sebastian Kandila, said the centre would always be on the forefront in improving the grapes sector, through innovations and implementation of key research projects. He cited Makutupora Red and Chenin White as the types of wine grape varieties grown in the country and which had been researched and certified by relevant authorities. THE Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, will continue to implement the strategy of surveying each piece of land in the country, the National Assembly was told here on Wednesday. Responding to a question by Rhoda Kunchela (Special Seats-Chadema), the Deputy Minister, Ms Angelina Mabula, explained that the first phase of the strategy was being implemented through the trial Land Tenure Support Programme project applied in Kilombero, Ulanga and Malinyi districts in Morogoro Region. She said that the government had set aside 6.4bn/- to 25 local government authorities for the purpose of surveying, planning and for land tenure. The district councils involved are Mbeya City Council, Ilemela Municipal Council, Sumbawanga, Shinyanga and Iringa. The deputy minister said included too were township councils of Makambako, Njombe, Kondoa, Nzega, Kahama and Bariadi, as well as district councils of Misungwi, Sengerema, Geita, Nzega, Bukombe, Magu, Chato and Ukerewe. Others are Busega, Simanjiro, Gairo Songea, Namtumbo and Itilima. She pointed out that the government would continue looking for funds from different sources to enable the issue comes to the end. In her question, the Member of Parliament (MP) had wanted to know when the issues would come to an end as the government had promised to solve land disputes by conducting surveys of all land pieces owned by wananchi as soon as possible to avoid demolitions of houses without compensations. The deputy minister told the House that the government had plans to ensure that every piece of land in the country was identified, planned and surveyed. In order to implement the plan, she said, the ministry had bought modern surveying equipments which had been distributed to eight zones. The equipments, she said, were being used by all councils to simplify and accelerate the process of surveying the people’s land pieces and issuing land title deeds. “In line with the implementation of the strategy of surveying each piece of land in the country, the ministry is continuing with the implementation of the programme of settlements formalisation in various parts in collaboration with legally registered private companies,” Ms Mabula said. The government’s goals, she said, were to ensure that all areas were planned and surveyed to meet the current and subsequent demands and therefore prevent random developments that caused conflicts and negative impacts like demolition of informal settlements. : We’re eager 297m/-