RWANDA begun on Sunday 100 days of mourning to commemorate the 25th anniversary of a genocide that tore the country apart and left close to a million people dead. Our thoughts and prayers are with our brothers and sisters in Rwanda as they hold each other up to rebuild their country under the strong leadership of President Paul Kagame. Rwandans are wounded and heartbroken from what happened in 1994 but have resiliently moved forward to build a strong and prosperous nation which is enjoying impressive economic growth and development. The country is often singled out as one of the emerging economies to look out for in terms of investment opportunities, value for money and economic growth. As we join well-wishers to say never again to genocide in the world, we are so much encouraged with resilience, strong spirit and commitment by Rwandans to build their country, the EAC region and the continent in general. As Rwanda rebuilds, we are also look ing forward to a strong East African Community region that will eventually be able to tak e advantage of its numerical strength of over 170 million people and economic weight of 172.7 billion US dollars in 2017, according to EAC statistics, to boost growth and development through more economic integration and joint development projects. The demographic strength and the strong economic growth make the EAC region an attractive investment destination where our case has been massively boosted by the African Development Bank (AfDB) report released last week which said we are the most successful in economic growth pulling ahead of others in the continent. The report said economic growth in East Africa is soaring ahead of other regions on the continent at close to 7 per cent while the overall outlook for the rest of Africa is cautious, but positive. East Africa is leading the continent with GDP growth estimated at 5.7 per cent in 2018, followed by North Africa at 4.9 per cent, West Africa at 3.3 per cent, C entral Africa at 2.2 per cent, and Southern Africa at 1.2 per cent. The report says economic growth across Eastern Africa will remain at a robust 5.9 per cent in 2019, and 6.1 per cent in 2020 mak - ing it a promising investment and manufacturing destination. We therefore as we wish Rwanda and her people continued success and prosperity in the years to come, we want to collectively build on our strength to build a stronger regional bloc that will enhance growth and development to East Africans.