NATIONAL Service’s investment and economic wing— SUMA-JKT—has paid over 700m/- as dividend to the government. Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) General Venance Mabeyo and Head of National Service— JKT—Major General Martin Busungu handed over the 700m/- dummy cheque to President John Magufuli yesterday. Dr Magufuli received the cheque at the official launch of a maize milling plant at JKT Mlale barracks in Ruvuma region. SUMA—JKT owns the factory with the capacity to mill 5,000 tonnes of maize per year and produces maize flour and animal feed in terms of husks. Speaking after receiving the cheque, President Magufuli hailed SUMA-JKT for the dividend payment to the government for the first time since it was established, challenging other public corporations to emulate the army unit. “CEOs (Chief Executive Officers) and boards of public corporations which are yet to pay dividends should weigh themselves,” he warned. The Minister for Defence and National Service, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, declared at the event that the dividend payment by SUMA-JKT will keep on increasing, annually. “We are glad that the army has been granted exemptions and other remunerations on time. Our focus is to have a professional and disciplined army,” Dr Mwinyi explained. Major General Busungu said the Ruvuma plant will produce maize flour to feed new JKT recruits across the army unit’s bases spread countrywide. “Let me take this opportunity to assure you that JKT will continue constructing factories to process locally produced raw materials in other parts of the country,” he told President Magufuli and other guests at the event. General Mabeyo said the army has engaged TIB Development Bank in a loan for revamping and modernising Buko Cashew nut processing plant, which the government last year handed over to SUMA- JKT in Lindi region. “There are some challenges at the factory to boost its productivity. We are currently engaging TIB for credit facility for procurement of new and modern processing equipment,” CDF Mabeyo explained. He reassured the president that the armed forces boast of highly skilled and patriotic personnel to take part in realising the government backed industrialisation vision. “This maize milling plant was constructed by experts from JKT. The factory aims at boosting our revenues and providing reliable markets for farmers,” he explained.an important role to play in industrialisation drive through its engineering and investment units—Tanzania Automotive Technology Centre (TATC), commonly known as ‘Nyumbu’, SUMA-JKT and Mzinga Corporation. General Mabeyo informed Dr Magufuli that Nyumbu is undertaking manufacturing of firefighting tracks for use at airports while the army is making some of the garments for servicemen and women countrywide. He mentioned other projects as the envisaged construction of sunflower and coffee processing plants in Manyara and Mbeya regions, respectively.