MUHIMBILI National Hospital (MNH) medical specialists have embarked on preliminary examinations on a strange wound that has developed on Mariam Rajab Juma’s back. Through the examinations, the medics will diagnose the problem and work out the treatment strategy for the hapless girl, whose case was exposed through a video clip that went viral on social media early this week, prompting Health, Community Development Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu to order immediate intervention. The 25-year old girl, a resident of Mnung’una in Singida region, arrived in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday night and was on the same day admitted at MNH. MNH Head of Surgery Department Dr Ibrahim Mkoma confirmed in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the patient had started undergoing examinations. He pointed out that Ms Mariam developed the wound for the first time five years ago and received treatment in Singida before it reappeared in August, last year. Dr Mkoma further revealed that at the age of five, the patient got burnt and developed some scars. Based on her history, necessary precautions are usually taken when attending to such kind of wounds because in most cases, it may be a normal wound or cancer. “The examinations continue to confirm whether it’s the normal wound or there are possibilities of cancer…based on our experience and expertise, the wound seems not normal, we have therefore conducted cancer tests to determine the magnitude,” said the doctor. He noted that the test results will be out in few days, enabling the hospital to rightly describe the nature of illness. According to the specialist, professionally similar wounds are identified as marjollin’s ulcers, one of the types of cancer which occur on scars from either being burnt or other injuries. It has not been revealed why such kind of cancer occur on scars. Preventive measures of illness are quick recovery of the wound. “We have received many similar cases at the hospital and the treatment is usually to do skin grafting on the wound,” he noted, urging health attendantsphone to request for help,” said Mariam. MNH Spokesman Aminiel Eligaesha observed that early this week, they saw a video clip of the girl going round on social media requesting for assistance to obtain medical treatment. He pointed out that the minister saw the video and directed the hospital to look for her wherever she is and bring her to the hospital. “We received the patient on Wednesday night and admitted her to the emergency unit and carried out preliminary treatment. Doctors are currently attending to her and the government will finance her entire treatment costs,” confirmed Mr Eligaesha. Responding to various calls by various people volunteering to support Mariam’s treatment, Mr Eligaesha noted that an arrangement will be made later, saying for now the government has taken charge for all the treatment cost.