VICE PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan said she will conduct a meeting today with different stakeholders who are willing to sponsor the national women football team, Twiga Stars. The team apparently left the country yesterday morning for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) ahead of their return leg for the 2020 Olympic qualifiers set tomorrow in DR Congo. The first leg at the National Stadium on Friday ended in a 2-2 draw. Twiga Stars have to win the second tie to stand a good chance of going into the second chapter of the qualifiers of which Africa wins a ticket to be represented by one team. Addressing the players after visiting their camping site here over the weekend before travelling to DR Congo yesterday morning, the VP said she was upset when she heard that Twiga Stars has no official sponsors despite shining in most of their competitions. “On Monday (today), I will have the meeting with potential sponsors who have shown interest to sponsor you (Twiga Stars) because my main intention is to see that you also have the same support enjoyed by the male football teams,” she said. “You have brought home three titles from your various competitions which is remarkable for the country as such, we need to find necessary means so that you can do your sport activities in a friendly atmosphere,” Hassan said. She added that the meeting with stakeholders will also be attended by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe as well as the Tanzania Football Federation president Wallace Karia. A draw of more than three goals will see Twiga Stars through but a defeat or a 1-1 draw will see them out of the race. On Friday, Bakari Shime charges struggled to make impact in the final third. Shime also opted to bench experienced goalkeeper; Fatuma Omary for less experienced Naijat Abas, who was at fault in both goals scored by DR Congo. Twiga Stars mounted pressure as they kept knocking the visitor’s door but missed killer instincts upfront with Mwanahamis Omary, Asha Rashid, Stumai Abdallah and Dionisia Daniel wasting several scoring chances. In the 45th minute, Asha Rashid missed from a sitter, firing wide with only keeper to beat. Immediately after the break, Twiga Stars pulled level in the 46th minute, through Dionisia Daniel who connected home Happiness Hezron’s cross.