KAGERA Regional Police Commander (RPC), Revocatus Malimi has appealed to his area residents and local non-governmental organisations to collectively join efforts to fight violence against children, with indications that it is again on the rise. In an interview with the ‘Sunday News’ he said about six children have been killed in separate incidents in the region within twelve months. “I appeal for joint efforts in the public to control the vice. Each one of us has a duty to safeguard lives of innocent children,” he pointed out. The RPC said the recent incident occurred on April 5, this year, when Ismail Hamis (7) a Standard One pupil at Kishanda Primary School, in Muleba District went missing on his way home from school, only for his decomposing body to be found buried in a shallow grave the following day. He said the second incident happened at Butahyaibega village, in Bukoba Rural- Maruku Ward, where some twins were hacked to death by unknown people. His list indicated also that at Mashule village in Kyamulaile Ward on October 20, last year, a pupil identified as Alistidia Respicius (5), and Euston Respicius (7), all at Kyamulaile Primary School were murdered at unknown place while heading to Kyamulaile trading centre. “They were not seen alive again until two days later when their bodies were found abandoned in a nearby bush,” added Mr Malimi. Recalling the fate of Sperius Eradius (13), a Standard Five pupil, at Kibeta Primary School, in Bukoba Municipal Council, who died in August last year in the hands of his teachers, he said children deserve care from all people in the public. He said there seems to be an increase in the crime in the first half this year in comparison to the same period last year. Reached for a comment, the Legal and Human Rights Centre (LHRC) Executive Director, Anna Henga said that an average of 394 children were reportedly raped in the country, almost every month from January to June, 2018, adding that the major suspects included their relatives and neighbours. She said that out of 6,376 incidences, violence against children was leading with 2,365 cases cited as rape, while 533 were categorised as sodomy. “Sodomy incidences increased from 12 in the first half of 2017 to 533 in the first half of 2018 and such incidences are common in schools,” added Ms Henga. The Law of the Child Act, 2009 (Cap. 21) stipulates that a child shall have the right to life, dignity, respect, leisure, liberty, health, education and shelter from his parents or guardians. Every parent shall have duties and responsibilities whether imposed by law or otherwise towards his/her child, which include the duty to protect them from neglect, discrimination, violence, abuse, exposure to physical and moral hazards and oppression.