UNILEVER Tanzania has expressed interests to acquire shares of one of the country’s fast moving consumer goods companies—ChemiCotex Industries Limited—widely known for its ‘Whitedent’ toothpaste brand. The company, a subsidiary of British-Dutch consumer goods conglomerate—Unilever—announced in a public notice last week through its Managing Director David Minja that it was in preparations to notify the Fair Competition Commission (FCC) of its intention to acquire Chemi- Cotex Industries Limited’s shares. “Unilever wishes to inform the public of its planned intention to notify FCC on the intention to acquire shares of ChemiCotex Industries of Tanzania,” the company announced in an advert placed on local media last week. ChemiCotex is a company registered in Tanzania with business ventures spanning in East and Southern Africa. The company is well known for its brands including ‘Whitedent’ toothpaste as well as ‘Bodyline’ and ‘Bannisters’ body jellies. Other brands in the skin care portfolio by ChemiCotex include ‘Sweetheart’, ‘U&Me’ and‘Siri’ creams while ‘Bodyline’ and ‘Zawadi Zanzibar’ are the key petroleum jelly and pomade lines. ChemiCotex also has a range of hair care brands marketed under the Afro-Gel and Soft Touch brands. ChemiCotex also operates a food division in Tanzania selling and marketing –‘Chemi-Cola’ squashes and ‘Simba Chef’ range of ingredients, which consist of bicarbonate, baking soda, vinegar, jams and pickles. It also operates a standalone business to business division specialising in the provision of specialty plastics and metals. The company was initially founded in the late 1970s but expanded rapidly from 2000 with the merger of Chemipack and Cotex Industries to create Chemi- Cotex and established a modern facility in Mbezi in Dar es Salaam. The plant has seen significant investments in the latest filling and mixing technologies to ensure the brands offer outstanding quality. On the other hand, Unilever is a British-Dutch transnational consumer goods company coheadquartered in London, United Kingdom and Rotterdam, Netherlands. Its products include food and beverages (about 40 per cent of its revenue), cleaning agents, beauty products, and personal care products. Unilever is a dual-listed company consisting of Unilever Plc, based in London, and Unilever N.V., based in Rotterdam. The two companies operate as a single business, with a common board of directors. Internationally ChemiCotex started exports in 2009 and now has a full subsidiary in Rwanda and partner distributors who manage its brands in Kenya, South Africa, Zambia and most recently in Angola.