THE Controller and Auditor General, Prof Mussa Assad, has unveiled the annual audit reports for the year ending June 30, 2018, which among other things, uncovered massive rot in the management of Public Authorities (PAs), as the report similarly found out that 14 other PAs were facing critical financial crises which threaten their future existence. The CAG presented the findings of his reports at a well attended news conference in his office here immediately after they were tabled in the National Assembly during the morning session. Generally, Prof Assad said, a greater percentage of institutions in the Central Government, Local Government and Public Entities received unqualified audit reports, adding that notable improvements were seen year after year. He said that during the 2017/2018 financial year, the National Audit Office (NAOT) went through 548 financial statements and that unqualified audit reports were 97 per cent, which is a greater improvement compared to the previous Financial Years. However, he noted, assessment of the financial performance of Public Entities found out that 14 PAs were broken. They include Lindi Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), National Sports Council (NSC), Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL), Tanzania Geothermal Development Company Limited, Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC), Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Corporation (DAWASA) Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Corporation (DAWASCO) - which were merged in this Financial Year to become DAWASA). Others are Mtwara Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority, Mwanza Urban Water Supply and Sanitary Authority, Electrical Transmission and Distribution Construction and Maintenance Company Limited, TTCL Pesa Limited and Tanzania Dairy Board. According to the CAG, these authorities were facing a critical financial situation as they incurred losses and had excess liabilities over assets, threatening their future existence. On Revenue Management in Public Entities, the audit noted significant amounts of long outstanding accounts receivable emanating from different public entities which affects their liquidity. The CAG dossier noted weaknesses in Medical Stores Department (MSD) sales where medical items were supplied without being requested and subsequently returned by customers. The report found out that the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) honoured claims amounting to 4.80bn/-for noncontributing customers, and paid claims totalling 13.99bn/- relating to ineligible dependants. Things are still not well organised at the Higher Education Students’ Loans Board (HESLB) as the report suggests that HESLB was unable to trace loan beneficiaries with a balance of 1.46tril/-. The report further made the 2017/2018 review of Public Authorities and other Bodies on Corporate Governance, where the CAG identified weaknesses in several PAs. According to Prof Assad, the Trust Deed between TTCL Pesa Limited and TTCL PESA Trust Entity (Trustees) made on July 01, 2017, requires the Trustees to hold meetings on quarterly basis. “However, to the contrary, I noted that the Trustees did not hold any meetings for the period from July 01, 2017 to June 30, 2018. The failure to hold the scheduled meetings indicates that Trustees’ approvals and attentions to the running of the business were not exercised as evidenced by the Trust bank accounts which were opened without the approval of the trustees. The report also revealed that the University of Dodoma (UDOM) procured phantom goods, whereby it made procurements amounting to 201.32m/- for various dialysis supplies via contracts No. RFQ/PA/041/2017-2018/ G/11LOT2-3 with Ms. Anudha Limited 151.32m/- and No. RFQ/PA/041/2017-2018/ G/11LOT2-3 with M/s Hasafa Health Sciences Ltd 50m/-. The supplies were supposed to be delivered on July 11, 2018. However, up to December 30, 2018, the procured items were not yet delivered, and no liquidated damages were charged to the supplier to the contract. At the National Insurance Corporation (NIC), the CAG noted rental income from rental business properties were not recorded on time and reconciliations on rental collection were not performed by property’s manager.