ORGANISERS have unveiled prize package for the winners of the fourth-coming Sokoine Memorial Half-Marathon, a rave scheduled to be held in Arusha on April 6th this year. Jointly organised by the government, Athletics Tanzania (AT), and Sokoine Memorial Foundation, the race will be graced by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. The AT executive committee member Tullo Chambo said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the memorial event is on a top gear. When he was unveilling the prize package for the winners of the 21km half marathon, Chambo said they hope by offering pulsating packages to the winners will motivate many athletes to participate, hence brightening the competition. “We are happy that Prime Minister Majaliwa will grace the race, everything is going perfectly well and winners will receive hefty prizes too,” he said. Chambo said that overall champion will receive 1m/-cash prize and that is for both winners of men and women’s disciplines. “There will be also prizes for the runners up who will pocket 800,000/-each while the third-placed runners will each foot home 600,000/-. There is also 400,000/-cash for the fourth-placed finishers,” he said. Chambo added that the event is has not short of prizes as the fifth- place finishers will get 200,000/-and 100,000/- will go to top-ten finishers. He said the race is organized, among other reasons, to remember the former Tanzanian Prime Minister, Edward Moringe Sokoine who died on April 12, 1984 in Morogoro while on his way to Dar es Salaam after a Bunge session in Dodoma. Chambo said the race will start at Clock Tower junction and wind up at Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium where the Prime Minister will hand over prizes to the winners. According to the AT Technical Committee secretary Rehema Killo, there will also stage a fun race despite the 21 km marathon. “The top 500 participants will also receive medals during the race besides those who will be awarded cash prizes,” said Killo. Killo has called youth and seniors runners to come in large number and register for the race