…JPM warns RCs from mineral producing regions REGIONAL Commissioners from mineral producing regions risk losing their jobs should they fail to establish auctioning centres within seven days, President John Magufuli warned yesterday. The President, who appeared to be furious, issued the directive in Chunya District, Mbeya Region, where he was addressing Chunya residents during his third day of the region's tour. President Magufuli issued the directive, which seemed to be his final one after it came to his knowledge that Mbeya regional authorities had failed to set up a mineral auctioning centre in Chunya District, given the fact that the district ranks second in gold production in the country. The Head of State has several times called upon regional commissioners in mineral producing regions to establish auctioning centres, but its implementation has been poor. “I have been directing the RCs from mineral producing regions several times to construct mineral centres to help find the market, especially for small-scale miners, but their response had been very poor,” he said. He directed the Mbeya RC to ensure the mineral centre was established, noting that his directive also concerned other RCs from mineral producing regions of Arusha, Katavi, Rukwa and Singida, who were yet to implement his directive. “I am not ready to continue working with RCs, who fail to implement my directives,” he insisted. He stressed the government’s intention to establish mineral centres was to ensure a reliable market for the country’s minerals to boost the sector’s contribution to individual incomes and the national economy. “The government wants to ensure minerals benefit the people, uplift the incomes of small-scale miners and boost government revenue from the sector,” President Magufuli said. He directed the RCs, the Ministry of Minerals, local government authorities and the Mineral Commission to ensure the centres were established in seven days to address challenge facing smallscale miners. The trading centres are meant to enable miners to do business with banks, retailers, brokers, jewelers and other traders in a well-regulated environment. They will also help ensure businesses pay levies to the government. The centres are also in line with the new Mining Act enacted as part of mining sector reforms. The law requires buying and selling of minerals to be done at mineral and gem houses. Earlier on the same occasion, Minister for Minerals Doto Biteko said after the amendments of mining laws in 2017, the authority issued 1,267 licences to small-scale miners and 27 licences to medium-scale miners. In 2017, the government also enacted the Sovereign Wealth Act, which recognises minerals as rare resources that benefit not only miners, but also traders, the government and surrounding communities. The minister reminded miners with licences to pay tax and support the government to boost the national income through the mining sector. “Recently, the government offered incentives to small-scale miners, including abolishing 18 per cent VAT and five per cent withholding tax to curb illegal mineral trade, which denies the government and miners income to support improvements in the mining sector,” he said.