YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera has said the Mainland Premier League schedule was not friendly for his team. Striker, Heritier Makambo scored a brace to help Yanga beat African Lyon 2-0 at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Monday. It was Makambo’s 14th goal of the season and his second brace since landing at the club this season and he is still the current team’s top goal scorer. Speaking after the victory against relegation threatened African Lyon, Zahera said they (Yanga) are playing too many games in too short period as they had to catch up on fixtures. “I’m not happy with the run of the league fixtures because it is too demanding for players. Of course I’m happy with the victory but disappointed as well with the kind of fixtures we are going through at the moment. My players were tired something that leads to lack of concentration in the key moments of the game,” complained Zahera. “We are playing a lot of games in a short time and we hardly have time to recover,” complained the Congolese tactician. He said after their league game against Alliance FC at CCM Kirumba Stadium here on March 2nd this year, his team never had time to recover as they have been travelling to play Premier League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) matches. Yanga currently top the Mainland Premier League table with 71 points; eight clear above second-placed Azam after playing 30 matches each. The Jangwani Street lads are 14 points ahead of third placed and defending champions Simba. However, the Msimbazi Street lads have eight matches in hand and could go top of the table if they win them all. On his side, African Lyon Head Coach, Salvatory Edward said despite losing their match against Yanga, his team will continue fighting until the end to escape relegation. The former Taifa Stars and Yanga midfielder said his team committed two mistakes and their opponents capitalised on them effectively. African Lyon are placed bottom of the table on 22 points after 33 outings. Meanwhile, things are heating up with hardly a month remaining before Yanga conduct general election. Former Taifa Stars coach, Mshindo Msolla is among three individuals who have collected nomination forms to vie for the club’s chairman post. Other candidates who collected forms for the post ahead of the election set for May 5th this year are Elias Mwanjala and Lucas Mashauri. They will join Jonas Tiboroha, Mbaraka Igangula and Erick Ninga who had already collected nomination forms to vie for the top post before the election process was called off. Vice-Chairman post has attracted former Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) General Secretary, Frederick Mwakalebela, Samuel Lukumay, Thobias Lingalangala and Ileje Member of Parliament (CCM) Janet Mbene. Yono Kevela, Titus Osoro and Salum Chota had already picked forms for the post before it was suspended. The post of Member of the Executive Committee has attracted Ally Hemed ‘Chota’, Saad Khimji, Hassan Hussein, Siza Limo, Dominick Albinus, Seko Kingo, Hamad Islam, Cyprian Musiba and Leonard Marangu. Others are Nassor Matuzya, Abdallah Chikawe, Hussein Nyika, Rodgers Gumbo, Said Rashid, Omar Ntimizi, Paulina Conrad, Elias Mkumbo, Seif Mwaitenda, Seif Seif and Haruna Batenga. Before the election was called off, 16 candidates had picked the nomination forms for the Member of Executive Committee posts. They are Hamad Islam, Benjamin Mwakasonda, Sylvester Haule, Salim Seif, Shafil Amri, Said Kambi, Dominick Francis, Seko Jihadhari, Ally Omar Msigwa, Arafat Hajji, Frank Kalokola, Ramadhani Said, Leonard Marango, Bernard Mabula, Christopher Kashiririka and Athanas Peter Kazige.