…government spearheaded educational transformation wins praises ROMAN Catholic Church in Tanzania has treasured the government spearheaded educational transformation, suggesting incorporation of religious studies in the curriculum to nurture ethical and God fearing citizens. Delivering the Easter Mass sermon yesterday, Bishop Almachius Rweyongeza of Kayanga Roman Catholic Diocese in Karagwe District, Kagera Region, argued that having God fearing society is inevitable for the nation to produce ethical and responsible leaders and citizens. “It’s through the morally upright leaders that the country will embrace good governance, human rights and rule of law,” Bishop Rweyongeza preached during the Easter prayers, which were marked at the national level at Kayanga Roman Catholic Diocese. The cleric added; “If a human has no fear of God, it means he/she cannot fear fellow human beings. These are the people who engage in corruption, egoism, abortion and killings of old people, people with albinism and other evils.” In the televised broadcast of church service, Bishop Rweyongeza preached that the fostering of God fearing nation will produce morally upright people to serve the country ethically and with professionalism. The cleric argued for incorporation of religious studies in the curriculums at all levels of education just like other secular subjects, which are taught at schools. He reasoned that the move will support President John Magufuli’s efforts to reshape the moral decay in public service and curb corruption and embezzlement of public resources. Undergoing transformations in the education sector, according to the priest, are vital in creating well-educated human resources to identify and provide solutions to challenges facing the society. “It is through the transformation that students will ably identify existing opportunities and utilise them for their benefits and the nation as a whole. It will also make them competitive in the labour markets inside and outside Tanzania,” he stated. Delivering greetings from the government, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brigadier General Marco Gaguti urged the public to maintain peace and patriotism that the country enjoys. In a related development, Tanzanians have been urged to continue praying for President Magufuli, government leaders and the nation in general for the peace that the country currently enjoys to prevail. The advice was given by the Catholic Diocese of Moshi Administrator, Rev Fr Deogratias Matiika, when delivering his Easter greetings during the mass that was held at Christ the King Cathedral here yesterday. “Peace can only be brought about with the people together with leaders who have good ethics, it’s therefore our responsibility to ensure we pray for the leaders so that they can observe good ethics and justice when serving people and nation,” he said in the homily read on his behalf by the Chief Priest of the Christ the King Parish, Fr Crispin Jumanne. He appealed to the Catholic Diocese of Moshi worshipers to continue praying to God for the diocese to get the new bishop to replace the former Head of Diocese, Bishop Isaac Amani who was appointed and consecrated to become the Archbishop of Arusha Catholic Archdiocese. Fr Matiika who is also Moshi Diocese Vicar General appealed to the congregation to improve their spiritual lives by avoiding what might keep them away from Jesus Christ, adding that they should always strive to be in the presence of the Almighty God in their respective lives. From Zanzibar, Bishop Augustine Shao of the Roman Catholic, Diocese of Zanzibar has commended President Magufuli for listening to citizens with grievances, while touring the country. This was among the bishop’s key messages to faithfuls and other people here on Easter Sunday, stressing that the president deserves praises for paying attention to the people in the country though it’s difficult to reach everyone. “As we remember the sufferings and celebrate the resurrection of Jesus, the best way is to put into practice his teachings. Listening to people is a big step in helping people. For example a medical doctor’s polite reception to a sick, is a good step in treatment as it gives hope to the sick,” bishop Shao said. He also urged members of the public, including parents to show love to Jesus by abstaining from bad manners and support the government’s efforts in stopping corruption, economic crime and violation of human rights. The Bishop remarked, “Some parents’ leave-nostone unturned in search for job for their children, in offices highly alleged being corruption areas: Revenue authority, ports, ministry of finance, police, court and health. It’s good to have your son or daughter in well-paid jobs but not corruption.” Bishop Shao also warned against foreign investors who come with their employees, especially in the construction industry and do all kinds of works that can be done by Tanzanians. “It’s high time the government reviewed the investment laws. Even though development partners like China give us aids, the room for foreigners doing all jobs like serving drinks should be closed to create chance for Tanzanians,” he stated. Priests from other churches—Anglican, Pentecostal and Evangelical Lutheran Church also asked their followers and all Tanzanians to remain good, following the teachings of Jesus and showing love to each other.