PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday ordered thorough inspection and assessment of privatised cashew nut processing industries countrywide and repossession of all dormant plants. Speaking at the launch of Mbonde Health Centre in Masasi District, one of the 352 facilities, which have been improved and constructed countrywide, President Magufuli directed the ministries of Industry and Trade and Agriculture to jointly carry out the inspection and assessment. The health centre that Dr Magufuli launched as part of his three-day official tour of Mtwara region cost the government about 500m/-. He said the country cannot continue seeing the government encouraging people to increase cashew nut production without reliable processors of the produce. “I now urge all the people who were entrusted by the government to operate the cashew nut processing factories to concentrate on the purchase of the crop as it now appears they have failed to operate the firms. The industries they had acquired should now be handed over to the government,” he said. The president noted that majorities who have been given to operate the factories have done nothing, citing a minister in the third phase administration who used the cashew factory as collateral to obtain money from a financial institution but used the amount in other businesses.He further observed that other factories in Newala, Mtwara and Tunduma were either not operational or operating below capacity. President Magufuli directed the Agriculture Minister, Mr Japhet Hasunga to immediately confiscate the factory, which the former minister owns and another in Newala. And, should the owners oppose the confiscation, the matter should be filed to court. “Once you file, the charges should include lost earnings by the government during the period when the factories havebeen dormant…the interest should also be included, among other things. I have today spoken with one of the person through the phone and he requested for one month to revive the plant to full capacity,” noted the president. He ordered the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry and Trade to remain in Mtwara and ensure that all idle industries are handed back to the government. “I don’t say privatisation was bad but during my time I will not tolerate any act, which frustrates the government efforts to bring development to the country,” he emphasized. He pledged to ensure that all authentic claims by cashew growers are settled. “We have paid 99 percent of the claims, with 390,000 peasants owning below 1,500 kilogrammes having received the money…those with over 1,500 kilogrammes will be paid in the next phase. The government has already approved 50bn/- for the purpose,” he noted. Earlier, President Magufuli affirmed the government’s commitment to boost the health sector in the country, saying 184bn/- has been invested in the 352 health facilities. He said the ongoing initiative to construct 67 district hospitals aims at easing service delivery and congestion.