TANZANIA should focus to attract investments in fertilizer production to help the country become self-sufficient to end its imports, according to an expert. The African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership (AFAP), Country Director, Mr David Kijazi told reporters on Tuesday that his organisation was working with the government to make sure the country become self-sufficient in fertilizers. According to Mr Kijazi Tanzania has been recording remarkable achievements in the application of fertilizers for both subsistence and commercial farming but it could do more if it establishes more local industries. “In my opinion, we need to encourage more local production of fertilizers in order to bridge current gap and relieve farmers from imported costly fertilizers and I appreciate current efforts in having in place some local manufacturers,” he said. He cited the ongoing establishment of Kilwa Fertilizers Plant as one of the national deliberate efforts targeting to address the problem saying more interventions are crucial in realizing the ambitious plan. Mr Kijazi said AFAP in collaboration with some partners was also working on the matter and hinted on some internal arrangements that will eventually lead to bringing in at least three investors for local manufacturing of fertilizers. AFAP, he said, will keep on supporting the country on a number of capacity building programmes in seeing to it that local experts are trained in modern application of fertilizers as well as empowering hub agro dealers and sub dealers to reach more farmers. Another crucial area was conducting researches on soil and related health condition citing one conducted in 2017 on acidic soil which is reported to affect many regions including the Lake Z one. The report on the matter had been handed over to the responsible Ministry and according to Mr Kijazi national task force has been formed to work on the findings and see how best the challenge could be arrested. “AFAP is equally talking to some stakeholders and supporters to initiate more researches on the problem and contribute in finding lasting solution,” he noted. AFAP experts were here for a training workshop that brought together hub agro dealers from Mwanza, Kagera, Mara, Simiyu, Geita and Shinyanga on a number of issues related to their operations particularly supply chain of fertilizers to farmers. It was observed that many suppliers of fertilizers had limited capacity in understanding basic qualities governing the area hence need for regular educational programmes. It was due to that need that AFAP set aside funds for education programmes to agro dealers and extension officers countrywide with more than 34 extension officers and hub agro-dealers being trained so far. A participant Suzana Sabuni owner of Suzy Agrovet and General Supplies from Bariadi District Simiyu region was of the view that more education was crucial for the farmers so that they can increase acreage and yields by applying recommended fertilizers. “The farmers might increase productivity if the government can improve extension services by introducing more farm field schools as well as subsidizing regularly used fertilizers,” she noted.