SIMBA SC posted their 10th back to back victory in the ongoing Mainland Premier league after a 3-0 win over Mbao FC at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro yesterday. Skipper John Bocco scored in each half while his colleague Meddie Kagere contributed one goal to enable their side continue ascending to the top of the league table. Bocco netted the opener in the 24th minute after connecting perfectly a set piece from Mohamed Hussein and he was on target once again in the 57th minute through a spot kick which was awarded to them following a hand ball inside the box by Mbao defender Erick Murilo. Kagere who was tightly marked by Mbao defenders, was later grounded in the box in the 78th minute and the referee pointed a spot kick. The Rwandan striker stepped up to score his 14th goal of the campaign, one goal above his main challenger Heritier Makambo who has 13 goals to his name. The victory saw Simba reaching 57 points on the ladder after 22 matches, only two points adrift second-placed Azam and ten points behind leaders Young Africans who have garnered 67 points from 28 encounters. As it stands, the Msimbazi street giants are the only team to have conceded a few goals (7) and lead in terms of the number of goals netted (48) while Azam have scored 46 and conceding 18, Yanga on the other hand, have netted 45 and their defence has allowed 19 goals. So far, the ride has been smooth for Simba in the unfolding top flight league who are taking every game seriously and in turn, harvest maximum points. The game started on a back foot with each side playing more defensively than attacking but that changed as time passed by which saw more footwork in front of the goal. However, it was Mbao who had the first major chance in the 16th minute whereby Said Juma had a good run into the penalty box of Simba, positioned himself well to pull the trigger, but goalkeeper Deogratus Munishi cleared the danger to save his team from conceding. This, however, did not threaten Simba as they kept pushing for more bodies upfront in search of the leading goal mostly using the right flank which had Haruna Niyonzima. As the pressure mounted, in the 24th minute, skipper Bocco rose up in the sky to win a free header which easily went into the net, beating Mbao’s goalie Metacha Mnata. Mohamed Hussein provided the well taken set piece which yielded the leading goal. Mbao played more physical match no wonder they registered more fouls than their opponents. At half time, Simba went into the dressing room with one goal advantage while the visiting side had a mountain to climb come the last segment. Simba Head coach Patrick Aussems who rested key players including the first choice goalkeeper Aishi Manula, creative midfielder Cletous Chama and goal poacher Emmanuel Okwi, made three substitutions in the last half bringing onboard Hassan Dilunga for Mohamed Ibrahim in the 61st minute, called to bench John Bocco for Saidi Ndemla in 73rd minute and Meddie Kagere paved way for Adam Salamba in the 86th minute.