EXPERT electricians proved to be well-crafted when it football and that was seen in their 6-3 win over Scientists’ team in the Masika Cup held during the Easter weekend at the Arusha Technical College grounds. It was all ‘Eureka!’ for the electricians that after winning, they were awarded with a large live cow, for their trouble. The runners-up, the Scientists, got themselves two goats as the three-week long ‘ Masika’ tourney climaxed here at the Easter Weekend. Seven departments of the Arusha Technical College competed in the inaugural Masika Cup held in honour of Dr Richard Masika, the former rector at the ATC who is credited for starting various development projects at the institution. Dr Masika himself was guest of honour during the final match; “Both teams that made it to the final belong to the same department, the electrical engineering wing at ATC which has electrical and biomedical streams,” he said. The former ATC rector added that he will now have to donate another cow so that, there will be another round of matches this week for the remaining departments to get their chances to also win something as well. The ATC departments that participated in the maiden Masika Soccer Cup, include, Transportation, Civil Engineering, Automotive, Mechanical, Electrical engineering, Laboratory, Science and Technology. Now that the annual Masika Cup tourneys will be taking place annually, students and trainers at Arusha Technical College said the campus sporting pitch need to be reworked, because whenever it rains, the pitch becomes waterlogged and fit for boating other than football, or maybe for testing the scientific theory of floatation. Jeremiah George, the captain of the electrical biomedical team, said their victory was a result of discipline and dedication plus proper exercising, vowing to win more matches in future. Ibrahim Enoch, who headed the electric networking team, said subjects believed to be difficult usually prepare people to face anything, including tough soccer matches.