THE Court of Appeal has rejected an appeal lodged by former Police Officer, Detective Corporal Sabato Katondo, who was challenging the High Court’s refusal to award him 18.3m/- as terminal benefits for an alleged wrongful dismissal from his employment for misconduct. Justices Mbarouk Mbarouk, Jacobs Mwambegele and Mwanaisha Kwariko ruled in favour of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Attorney General (AG), the respondents, after finding that the appeal under which the cop had presented the case lacked grounds to stand in court. They pointed out that Mr Katondo, the appellant, ought to have followed the direction given in another case, where he had earlier filed the litigation against the respondents and two others, with the picture that the remedy for him was to apply for prerogative orders of mandamus and certiorari, if at all he had sufficient grounds to prove the claims. The justices also noted that in the previous case, the High Court had held that there was no provision under the Police Force and Prisons Services Commission Act No. 8 of 1990 empowering a Police Officer to look for remedies against injuries resulted from breach of contract of employment. In its decision, the High Court had concluded that the suit against the IGP, AG, Mwanza Regional Police Commander (RPC) and civilian, Alikadi Mambo, alleging breach of contract of employment was incompetent, having been filed in the wrong forum and it was, thus, struck out. “We are of the considered view that the appellant was at liberty, either to follow those directives or appeal against that decision, but not to file the same suit against the same parties, save for Alikadi Mambo,” the justices said. They ruled, therefore, that the new suit the appellant had lodged against the said two respondents alone was a nullity. “By this court revisional powers under section 4 (2) of the (Appellate Jurisdiction Act), those proceedings are quashed and all orders thereto set aside,” they declared. This case had a chequered history. It has been in court corridors since 1995. The appellant, who was a Police Officer, was dismissed from employment for misconduct. He filed his first case before the High Court demanding a number of reliefs. He had demanded 2m/- from Mambo for malicious prosecution and 5m/- against the IGP as general damages for breach of employment contract, 260,000/- as costs incurred during follow-up of the matter to the IGP, 20,000/- being lawyer’s fees in a criminal case and 1,729,000/- as salary arrears. In its decision, the High Court ruled against the appellant after allowing grounds of objection to the effect that the suit suffered multifariousness and, or misjoinder of suit and parties. It also held that the suit against RPC, IGP and AG in relation to breach of employment contract was filed in a wrong forum. The Court, thus, struck out the suit. As for Mambo, the court held that there was misjoinder of parties on a cause of action. However, the trial judge advised the appellant that if he had sufficient grounds against Mambo, he was at liberty to file a separate suit on a tort of malicious prosecution. Following the court’s decision, the appellant filed the case against the two respondents alone, demanding 18,381,000/- being general damages, salary arrears, arrears of meal allowances, travelling costs, arrears of detective allowances and costs of the suit. This new suit was dismissed on March 4, 2014 by the High Court for the reason that the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain it because the appellant had not exhausted available remedies as per section 9 (2) of the Police Force and Prisons Service Commission Act and Regulations thereto. Having been aggrieved by that decision, the appellant took the matter to the Court of Appeal, which declared later that the High Court judgment was a nullity for reason that the parties were not heard on the issue of jurisdiction upon, which the court had based its dismissal of the suit. The appeals court remitted back the record to the High Court for the same judge to re-summon the parties and hear them on the issue, which led to the dismissal of the suit and proceed to compose a fresh judgment. The High Court complied with the directive. At the end, the High Court struck out the suit for lack of pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain it. Upon being dissatisfied by the trial court’s decision, the appellant decided to go back to the Court of Appeal for the second bite, which has also failed.