HOME Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola yesterday revoked appointments of three Regional Police Commanders (RPCs) over misconduct, including corruption and negligence. Minister Lugola dismissed RPCs Salum Hamdun, Emmanuel Lukula and Ramadhan Ng’azi for Ilala, Temeke and Arusha regions, respectively, as well as challenging the Traffic Police Commander Fortunatus Muslim to appraise himself if he still fits in the position. Mr Lugola accused the country’s top traffic officer of failure to supervise and purge corruption in the department. He accused the demoted RPCs of condoning illegal business dealers and protecting illicit drug dealers. “As the Home Affairs Minister, I am responsible for supervision of all these…I have sacked these officers but the appointment of their replacements is the duty of the Inspector General of Police (IGP),” Mr Lugola explained in Dodoma. He said Ilala and Temeke RPCs have been disregarding his orders against corruption as well as escorting criminals and condoning illegal businesses. The minister said the sacked Arusha RPC had been harassing a police officer who named colleagues involved in protection of illicit drug dealers. Mr Lugola revealed that some of senior police officers refused to heed and execute his orders, dismissing them as mere political rhetoric whose issuer will any day leave the office and leave them (police officers) in their positions. The minister also ordered the Permanent Secretary in the ministry to form a committee, which will work for three months to establish underperforming areas in the ministry. He charged that after his appointment by President John Magufuli to the Home Affairs portfolio, he visited various regions to assess the situation of police force in general and talked to RPCs, Regional Traffic Officers (RTOs) and Officers Commanding District (OCDs). “The main duty of police is to ensure the safety and security of the people and their properties as well as maintain peace and security. But, in my tour in the regions I discovered there are various malpractices by some unfaithful police officers that have been annoying the citizens. In my tour in the regions, I ordered the head of police officers to ensure that they end case fabrications and deliberate delays in issuance of bails to suspects through unlawful conditions and terms that aim at soliciting bribes,” he stated further. According to Mr Lugola, police delays in granting bails to suspects who meet the legal terms and conditions are a technique to get bribes. 