THE government may soon sell 200,000 tonnes of cashew nuts abroad as now it is in talks with foreign companies to do so. The Ministry of Agriculture said in the National Assembly yesterday that so far it had collected 213,000 tonnes of cashew nuts from farmers. “We understand that storing the cashew nuts in warehouses for a long time willlead us to a loss, thus we are in talks with companies to start selling 200,000 tonnes of the crop outside the country,” Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Omary Mgumba said. The government has stored cashew nuts it had collected from farmers in various warehouses pending being processed or sold. The government has bought the cash crop during this season and kept it in various warehouses after it entered into price dispute with local dealers. President John Magufuli directed dealers to buy the crop at 3000/- per kilogramme, of which traders failed. Therefore, in protecting the interests of cashew farmers, the government had decided to buy directly from them at 3,300/- per kilo. Yesterday, Mr Mgumba said the government had already paid for 116,000 tonnes out of the total 213,000 tonnes of the cashew nuts it had collected from farmers. He noted that the exercise to collect the remaining cashew nuts waiting for payment was ongoing. The deputy minister was responding to a supplementary question from Mtwara Urban MP, Maftah Nachuma (CUF), who wanted to know government’s plans to look for the market of collected cashew nuts. He was also concerned about delayed payment to farmers, whose cashew nuts were collected since last year. His views were supported by Mtama MP Nape Nnauye, who wanted to know the government’s stand on civil servants engaged in corruption during the verification process. “When the government will take legal action against individuals engaged in corruption, which disrupts verification?” he asked. Another MP Hawa Ghasia (Mtwara Rural-CCM) wanted to know, when the government would pay cashew levy to councils as well as paying those, who offered services during the collection of cashew nuts from farmers, including transporters, warehouse supervisors and bag suppliers. Mr Mgumba informed the Parliament that 4bn/- had been paid to transporters, another 6bn/- to warehouse supervisors and 4.4bn/- to bags suppliers. Responding to Mr Nnauye’s concerns, Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga said the ministry intended to send to court all those engaged in corrupt practices.