PAN African Postal Union (PAPU) and Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) are mobilising resources for construction of the union Headquarters here. The envisaged 17-storey complex will be erected at Sekei area, costing 41bn/-, with PAPU footing 55 per cent of the budget and TCRA bankrolling the remaining 45 per cent. Speaking here during the International Postal Day, PAPU Secretary General Younouss Djibrine said the procurement process for the proposed building is expected to be finalised by this month and construction start shortly. “We now confidently announce that construction of the proposed PAPU Headquarters, which will also serve as the union’s investment building will soon start in Arusha after facing many delays, in cluding securing the title deed for the plot,” said Mr Djibrine. International Postal Day was observed in Arusha with a call to roll out digital services across the nation to ensurepostal services in both Tanzania and the entire continent adopt modern ways of offering services. “The boom in information and communication technologies has revolutionised the habits and attitudes of many people in all works of life. As a long-standing channel of communications and interactions between peoples and communities, the Post has not been left out of this new and emergent dispensation,” said acting Arusha Regional Postmaster Frimo Kalasinga. Mr Kalasinga however pointed out challenges facing the sector when it comes to delivering parcels across borders; “We still rely on privately owned bus and truck companies, whose ways of dealing can be slow and cumbersome.” It was also observed during the meeting that as it grapples with the demands of its universal service obligations, increasingly scarce government financing, fierce and growing competition from many players, compounded by non-existent regulation, the Post is left with no option than fighting for survival. The booming e-commerce industry, powered largely by digital technologies, offers immense opportunities for the post to establish its leadership on this market. So far, key innovations include the modernisation of customs services with the implementation of the Customs Declaration Systems (CDS) and the facilitation of secure financial transactions using solutions developed by the UPU Postal Technology Centre. Founded in Arusha in 1980, the Pan-African Postal Union aims at spearheading the transformation of the postal sector in Africa through innovative, integrative and encourage cooperation among stakeholders, with a view to promoting reforms in physical, electronic and financial postal network