WHEN gas processing activities started to take shape in Madimba Village of Mtwara Region, men were main beneficiaries of employment opportunities. And, women were left out simply because it was perceived that work related to mining belonged to men, a mindset that has been making them miss economic opportunities brought by gas extraction. Madimba is one of the natural gas processing plants being connected to the gas pipeline from Mtwara to Kinyerezi power plant for industrial and domestic uses. When constructed about four years ago, the processing centre became part of the activities that the villagers engaged in for earning their daily bread. Several villagers benefited from part time jobs offered at the centre. However, Madimba Village Chairman Mohamed Madiva explains that there was gender imbalance as men outnumbered women. The situation persisted until a project titled “Active Citizenship in Improving Petroleum Governance,” was introduced at the village about two years ago. The Oxfam in Tanzania (OiTZ) in collaboration with Oxfam US are implementing this project, which is aimed at improving accountability in the extractive industry. It emphasizes on ensuring that citizens (community animators) are critically engaged in the sector. Under this project, Oxfam in Tanzania has been connecting local communities with Civil Society Organisations and local governments to advocate and taking advantage of national and international level policy reform opportunities. Oxfam’s project, which is implemented by Mtwara Society Against Poverty (MSOAPO) in Mtwara Region, is based on a theory of change that disclosure of information on extractive projects payments, contracts, environmental and social impacts is necessary but not sufficient condition for improved management of these valuable resources. At Madimba, things got better in gender issues in gas processing plant after the project selected five youth for building their capacity. These are so called animators. The latter were trained on various matters related to the gas sector, including laws, regulations and rights of citizens surrounding the gas extraction and processing areas. The animators then imparted the knowledge to the rest of the villagers. “On their return from training, we are glad that things have changed after pushing for gender balance in part-time jobs offered at the Madimba gas processing plant,” Mr Madiva admits. Mr Madiva says the animators campaigned against gender inequality and the village leadership wrote to the management of the plant complaining over small number of women benefiting from the unprofessional jobs at the plant. “We are glad that the management understood us and realised the weakness as far as gender equality is concerned and began employing more women. Currently, many women are engaging in gas activities,” he said. Acting District Executive Director, Patrick Almasi explains that part of the revenues collected from gas activities normally go to empowering women. He says the youth and women are encouraged to form entrepreneurship groups and apply for loans from the council as capital to start income-generating activities. He elaborates that all collected service levies from the mining companies are regarded as council revenues from own sources. The companies have been paying the levy since they started gas mining and production in the district. Such revenues are kept into one pool and are allocated to the development projects and the administrative activities. The district spends 40 per cent of the service levy on development projects and the remaining 60 per cent is allocated for administrative operations. The money set aside for the development projects is disbursed to villages in the district as per their needs after identifying crucial projects to be undertaken in their areas. Part of funds allocated for the development projects is also channeled for empowering the youth and women in their groups by giving them loans as capital for starting businesses or entrepreneurship. According to 2016 report on Gender and Extractive Industries in Mainland Tanzania released by the UN Women, a vast majority of Tanzanian women and men who are involved in the country’s Extractive Industry are artisanal and small-scale mining, estimated at 700,000 people, of which 27 per cent are women. The report reveals that the main divider in terms of the type of barriers for women’s engagement in the sector was always employment versus selfemployment. Women who are employed in large companies face difficulties combining family life with being on site for long stretches of time. This becomes critical after a few years when they get married and have children. During this phase, many women try to shift to locations where it is easier to combine working with family life, or they leave the industry altogether. Gender stereotypes related to “suitable” roles for women and men respectively, as well as sexual harassment and exploitation, are barriers that cut across women’s engagement in all extractive industry sectors, and are relevant to employment as well as self-employment. For women who are selfemployed, either directly engaged in extractive, or as service providers to the industry (such as food provision) the challenges put forward were of a different nature. Barriers such as lack of capital, tools and equipment, and entrepreneurship and technical skills were identified. The support mechanisms are limited, only a few women belong to economic support groups, and access to grants, loans and skills development is limited. While access to capital is partly coupled with unequal distribution of land and assets needed as collateral, access to grants and training is related to lack of exposure and information. From a policy framework point of view, the extractive industry laws, policies and strategies are not all discriminatory against women. However, some of the policies and laws are largely gender blind, in particular laws. There is thus the need to engender policies and laws. This could be done with inspiration from the policies where gender dimensions already feature in a significant way, such as the National Energy Policy (2015). There is also a potential to introduce gender interventions on a strategic level, the report suggests.