ENERGY sector boost as Rural Energy Agency (REA) is ste to launch a credit financing scheme of $5.25m (about 11.5bn/-) in support of its mini-grid renewable energy project. Identified as the Renewable Energy Project Development Facility (REPDF), its main focus is to support eligible project development activities for renewable energy (solar, wind, small hydro and biomass) to increase the capacity of the country’s off-grid power generation. REA Acting Director of Market and Technologies, Elineema Mkumbo said the project was part of the government’s move to electrify more households in rural settings. “One of reasons, which pushed REA to come up with this project is mainly to help developers come up with project documents that can attract funding from banks. We discovered that most of the project proposals had been failing to attract funding because for some reasons they could not meet required standards,” said the acting director at an event to launch the project in Dar es Salaam yesterday. According to him, REPDF is designed to support a project feasibility study and other pre-construction consulting services catering for early stage project development and is available for the feasibility study and other consulting services. He pointed out that developers with projects, which had a generation capacity of less than 10MW could secure funding of up to 90 per cent for the above, while the remaining 10 per cent had to be covered by the developers. A senior officer responsible for fund solicitation at TIB Development Bank, Mr Kenneth Lusesa, said for years now the bank had been given the mandate to facilitate REA’s loan financing. He noted that loans were usually accessible to commercial banks whereby project developers could access them through refinancing packages. “Accessibility to funds has to be vetted by the central bank and banks that qualify to obtain funds,” said Mr Lusesa. Mr Lusela noted that the goal of doing so was to build the capacity of the country’s commercial bank to facilitate renewable energy and be able to continue with the initiative. He, however, pointed out that only one bank, which was TIB Corporate Bank, a subsidiary to the development bank, had been recruited for the purpose. “We find this to be a challenge simply because in the previous similar project at least seven financial institutions had been recruited, but with this project the banks have not shown any interest,” he noted. A stakeholder in the sector, Mr Cosmas Masawe, from Hydro (Africa) Limited was of the view that it was high time REA thought of establishing a bank specifically for energy. Mr Masawe disclosed that it was quite a hassle for them to secure refinancing because the banks they had given the role did not have expertise to carry out duo-diligence of projects.