...Over delays in installing Tanzanite Wall security cameras  WHETHER he would become a sacrificial lamb or pay a deserved price for ministerial incompetence, what is almost certain is that the newly appointed Minister for Minerals, Dotto Biteko, is likely to lose his job if the CCTV cameras are not installed on the Mirerani Tanzanite wall within one month.  President John Magufuli yesterday announced that he would sack him, his deputy Stanslaus Nyongo and Permanent Secretary in the ministry Professor Simon Msanjila, if they fail to supervise installation of those cameras. The visibly upset President pointed out that despite his efforts to have the wall built, some unscrupulous officials were stealing minerals from there. If he fails to implement the President’s directive, Mr Biteko will be the fourth minister to prompt a reshuffle at the ministry after Professor Sospeter Muhongo, Medard Kalemani and Angellah Kairuki. Speaking at the meeting between small scale miners and mining stakeholders that he chaired at Dar es Salaam’s Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC), Dr Magufuli expressed dismay over failure to implement his directives that he had been issuing to senior government officials, including ministers. “When I went to launch the wall last year, I directed that CCTV cameras be installed to monitor security at the area and prevent theft of minerals but until today nothing has been done,’’ he said, adding that he was wondering why the ministry failed to implement his directives while it was simple to install the surveillance devices. He said the minerals ministry needed a tough and bitter minister who needs to take actions without looking people in their faces. Dr Magufuli revealed that the former minister was so polite to the extent that she underperformed, and that was why he promoted her deputy to become full minister. He directed him to sack all managers and other officials in the ministry who were underperforming so as to revolutionalise the mining sector in the country. The Head of State underscored the need to supervise the implementation of the provisions of mining contracts in the ministry, including putting up measures in place that would see the country having mineral smelting plants. At the same time, he asked the ministry to explore possibilities for allowing small scale miners to be allowed to enter the Mirerani mining area through the popular Magufuli gate to conduct mining activities without working contracts. He was responding to mineral stakeholders who charged that small scale miners were denied entrance until they displayed employment contracts. The Head of State directed that the ministry explore other modalities for enabling them access mining pits. The Head of State further directed the ministry to put up proper investment modalities for six million small and medium scale miners who he said would contribute to State coffers through payment of taxes. “Large mining companies have so far provided employment to 11,500 people; therefore if we create a friendly environment for investment to small and medium miners, we will be in position to employ more people because they constitute 6 million people and these can employ many others.” The President spent the better part of yesterday in a meeting with mining stakeholders where he took time to listen to all queries from them and asked senior government officials present at the meeting to provide answers.