Young Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said fatigue among his players was the main cause for their early exit in this year’s SportPesa Super Cup tournament. Yanga were the second home team to be eliminated in the competition following a 3-2 loss to Kariobangi Sharks of Kenya on Tuesday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam while earlier on the same day, Singida United were bundled out of the tournament by Bandari of Kenya who beat them 1-0 at the same venue. The slump was Yanga’s consecutive defeat in Shinyanga in their Premier League match. The hosts Stand United handed them a 1-0 thumping at CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. Addressing media at a postmatch briefing, Zahera said they hardly had ample time to put themselves together after the league assignment. “My players lost ground in the first half of the game as they were heavy-legged thereby giving their opponents a chance to dominate us,” he said. He insisted that after the Shinyanga assignment, his squad had no ample time to rest and that their game plan was never achieved. Adding, Zahera said in the second half, his charges came back into the game by launching series of scoring chances of which many of them were wasted away. Commenting on refereeing, Zahera said he had no problems with that since the decisions they made was according to the way the game was played. On his part, Kariobangi Sharks Head Coach William Muluya lauded his players for executing their roles as a team. “It was a team work performance which has made us to venture into the semifinals. My boys fought for the team and Kenya as such, I have hopes to reach deeper into this contest,” Muluya said. He also hinted that indiscipline scenes which emerged during the game were due to emotions from players. However, on the eve of the tournament, Zahera said his team’s objective is to do well in three competitions which are the Mainland Premier League, Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and the SportPesa Cup. “We will be serious in these contests and play to win the title,” he said. The annual SportPesa Cup brings together eight teams from Tanzania and Kenya who battle it up for the title whose ultimate winner bags in USD 30,000 plus playing against the English Premier League side Everton FC. Gor Mahia who are defending champions lost their title yesterday after a 4-3 penalty loss to the tournament’s debutants Mbao FC from Mwanza.