ZANZIBAR President Ali Mohamed Shein opened the refurbished Mao Tse Tung Stadium here with a promise to increase budget for sports next year. President Shein said the government is also committed to increase budget for the Ministry of Youth, Culture, Arts and Sports aiming boosting sports. “We are happy to have the Mao Tse Tung with a new look! Improving infrastructures should mean admirable performance in games,” he said. Sports fans welcomed the news with hope to see the benefits of the budget increase, thanking the government and Chinese government for continued support in developing sports in the country. The President told the enthusiastic attendees at the ‘New Mao Tse Tung Stadium’ that sports remain important in uniting and bringing people together for nation building, regardless of individual differences. He said the government was serious about sports growth because it also helps boost economy. Shein said plans are underway for the construction of more stadia with the capacity of accommodating 45,000 people at Tunguu and Fumba areas. “We are soliciting funds to implement the projects. Our plans also include establishing modern playground/stadium in each district,” said the President. President Shein further said that as government moves forward to improve sports in the country, he is perturbed by frequent football and sports conflicts, especially by taking football matters to court of law. “I hope this will not happen again. Taking sports issues to Court tarnishes our image, and FIFA has been tolerant to us. Let us find other ways of solving internal conflicts in our clubs and avoid taking them to courts,” he said. The China Consular General in Zanzibar Xie Xiuowa said his country was happy with the Zanzibar/China relations, promising continued support. Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry Omar Hassan ‘King’ said that the refurbishment had cost 15bn/- with China contributing large amount of more than 11bn/-. “The wall fenced stadium with artificial grass include: two standard football pitches, space for indoor games (basketball, volleyball, table tennis, and a gym), 48 toilets, offices,” said the PS as his Minister, Ambassador Ali Abeid Karume thanked President Shein for improving sports in the country.