SCHOLARS have expressed a growing concern over a gap in the circulation of knowledge produced in Tanzania and other parts of Africa in gaining global recognition. A Professor of Emeritus History and Sociology of Science at the University of Pennsylvania, Steven Feirman raised the issue when presenting a topic on ‘Writing History: Flow and Blockage in the Circulation of Knowledge’ which gained support from other scholars in the country. “The study has discovered a central problem in circulation of knowledge in relation to research studies carried out in Tanzania and other parts of Africa. Most of the studies done in the country are not being published outside the country’s boundaries, creating a gap in accessing knowledge,” said Prof Feirman at the opening of a three-day Regional Assembly of the African Humanities Programme (AHP) held in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. According to him, the gap has created a huge problem as studies written about Africa by foreign scholars are not driven to local contexts and hence lack relevance. The claims were supported by Prof Oswald Masebo from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), who cited the problem as being critical even in Africa itself. Prof Masebo noted that majority of the academicians are aware of journal publications in Europe and other parts of the world but not of those which exists in their own borders. Regarding contextual knowledge of the African continent in the global history, the Academician said majority of the publications lack rich contextual knowledge to back them up. “The studies have to be supported by methodologies, philosophies and ideologies which capture the local context and in order to do this, the writers have to develop an interest in the areas,” noted Prof Masebo. He observed among challenges contributing to the scholarly work to appear in that manner is due to issues related to finances and the evolution of digitization. Because of the cost of embarking on such studies, some scholars have opted for data found in the internet which in most cases is not supported. Earlier on, UDSM Deputy Vice Chancellor- Research, Prof Cuthbert Kimambo pointed out that the Humanities for over 20 years have been receiving dwindling support in terms of research funding and sometimes relegated behind STEM disciplines. “The efforts of the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS) should be vigorously lauded in strengthening the Humanities in Africa. AHP has become a cornerstone among many other efforts in providing a lifeline to the once ailing discipline on the continent,” said Prof Kimambo. He affirmed UDSM’s commitment to support the growth of the Humanities, a reason it endorsed the recommendation to split the once gigantic College of Arts and Social Sciences into two new colleges; the College of Social Sciences and College of Humanities. According to him, the move was made in order to meet the challenges faced by the college where Humanities-based departments were being stifled by the rapidly growing social science-based departments.