COURT of Appeal has saved Mwanza-based Sekou Toure Hospital from paying a minor 1.2bn/- over alleged negligence by medical personnel. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Sivangilwa Mwangesi and Gerald Ndika dismissed an appeal by the minor (name withheld), as appellant, demanding compensation for improperly administered Bacillus-Guerin (BCG) vaccine, resulting into his crippled left leg. The minor had lodged the appeal through Aloyce Kanene to fault the findings of the High Court at Mwanza Registry. “We hold that the appellant failed to establish his suit at the trial and as such his challenge of the trial court’s decision is without merit. We accordingly dismiss the appeal and direct the respondents to have their costs,” they declared in favour of Medical Officer in Charge of the Hospital and Attorney General. During the appeal hearing, the appellant had contended that the trial judge erred in law by considering hearsay evidence, which is inadmissible and that key witness—the mother of affected child—was not allowed to adduce evidence although she was attending the sessions. He stated that the Medical Officer in Charge of the hospital, apart from evidence adduced before the court during defence being hearsay, his evidence was very far from the fact in issue as he only explained how medicines or vaccines could be preserved. In determining the grounds of appeal, the justices of the appeal court agreed with the submissions that there was no evidence from the medical officer in charge of the hospital to illustrate as to whether he had any direct knowledge as to whether the appellant was vaccinated or not. They were satisfied that the appellant was administered with the BCG vaccination at the hospital. The justices were, however, quick to ask whether the vaccination was administered negligently by the staff of the hospital, causing problems to the appellant. The question, they said, was the core issue during the case trial and the court had held that there was no evidence to establish on the balance of probabilities that there was negligence on part of the hospital’s staff. “On our part, upon going through the evidence as contained in the proceedings of the trial court we are persuaded to agree with the position taken by the trial judge,” the justices said. According to the justices, what could be discerned from the testimony of the next friend was that his evidence was mere hearsay, as all what he told the court was basically from what he had been told by his wife. “Throughout his testimony there was none which appeared to come from him directly. That being the case, his evidence was also of little assistance, if any, in the determination of the suit,” they noted. The evidence given by other witnesses, the justices said, was remotely connected to the cause of problem. They pointed out that the only evidence which was of importance was that of expert witness, a medical doctor, who testified that he attended to the appellant by examining him while he was being treated at Bugando Medical Centre, after being referred from Sekou Toure hospital. The justices noted further that the doctor had prepared a report indicating that it was difficult to know the exact cause of the pustule in the right arm which resulted in infection extensive damage of tissue and muscles, which later started to discharge pus. “Such statement from a specialist medical doctor who was called to testify for the appellant, exonerates the first respondent (Medical Officer in Charge of Sekou Toure Hospital) from the allegation against him that its staff performed their duties negligently,” they said. Facts show that the appellant was born at the Hospital on August 4, 2004 where he remained for one week before being discharged and allowed to leave.