PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has issued 14 directives to facilitate completion of ministry buildings constructed in Ihumwa, 17km from Dodoma City. He made the directives on Thursday after he visited the sites, insisting that the government wanted the projects to be completed on time and must be of high quality. According to him, construction should be complete by the end of this month and must have all required infrastructure and information communication technology (ICT), water and electricity. “Sites that face shortage of manpower must be considered. The work should be done day and night to have all structures completed on time,” he stressed. His directives also went to project coordinators, including Tanzania Building Agency TBA and the relevant ministries to ensure they cleared all debts they owed to contractors to end grievances and perform their work smoothly. Mr Majaliwa directed all Permanent Secretaries to supervise the planting of trees to beautify the sites. “This work should be done in collaboration with the Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS) and garden experts should be involved,” noted Mr Majaliwa. Meanwhile, the Premier has instructed the Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency (Temesa) to open a temporary office and provide technical support. He also used the opportunity to instruct TBA to start providing a report on each ministry regarding the progress each is making. Mr Majaliwa was of a view that equipment procurement should be done earlier to avoid unnecessary delays. “All ministers and PSs should ensure high speed is maintained in the construction of their offices,” he noted. Moreover, he instructed the Tanzania Rural & Urban Roads Agency (Tarura) to construct at least gravel roads, while plans were underway to have permanent roads. He asked to be issued with the number of jobs that had been created from the project. He pledged to go back to Ihumwa to receive keys of all ministries as they were supposed to be completed on January 31. Earlier, the secretary of the national coordinating committee, Mr Meshack Bandawe, said they are setting up a water tank with the capacity to store one million litres. “We are finalising the construction of water tank,” he noted.