SIMBA skipper, John Bocco will miss Saturday’s CAF Champions League group D match against DR Congo side AS Vita Club at the Complexe Omnisports stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa. The club’s physician, Yassin Gembe confirmed yesterday in Dar es Salaam that Bocco will not be among the players, who will travel with the squad to Kinshasa ahead of the match against wounded Vita Club. Bocco was stretched out of the pitch after sustaining injury in the first half of last Saturday’s group D opener against Algeria’s JS Saoura at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba emerged with 3-0 victory. The lanky striker joined the club’s list of injured players, who will not be among 19 players in the contingent, which was due to jet off early today for Kinshasa. “It is not a serious injury and we expect Bocco to fully recover after ten days,” Gembe said. Patrick Aussems side will also continue to miss the service of their experienced and versatile defender, Erasto Nyoni, who is still nursing injury sustained during the recent ended Mapinduzi Cup. Nyoni is expected to return back in action on early February. Simba will keep their fingers crossed that Bocco, who has scored two goals for his side in the campaign and Nyoni to be fit for match against Egyptians giants Al Ahly on February 2nd this year in Cairo. The squad of 19 players who were due to make the Kinshasa trip are Aishi Manula, Deogratius Munishi, Nicholas Gyan, Mohamed Hussein, Pascal Wawa, Jjuuko Murshid, Paul Bukaba, Jonas Mkude, James Kotei and Clatous Chama. Others are Hassan Dilunga, Haruna Niyonzima, Mzamiru Yassin, Mohamed Ibrahim, Shiza Kichuya, Rashid Juma, Emmanuel Okwi Adam Salamba and Meddie Kagere. Saturday’s match will be officiated by referee Mahamadou Keita from Mali, who will be assisted by Seydou Tiama from Burkina Faso and Sidiki Sidibe from Guinea. Going into the match, Simba should be well prepared because their hosts, who lost 0-2 away in Cairo to record winners Al Ahly will certainly come out like wounded buffalos. “We are going to Kinshasa with one target, to get positive results… we know an uphill task awaits us because we are facing a good team, which has lost its previous game, so we need to work hard and focus on our game plan,” said a club official. Simba, who are the only East African club remaining in CAF Champions group stage, sit top of group D, ahead of Ahly, tied on three points but the Msimbazi Reds are ahead on superior goal difference. Meanwhile, Al Ahly Assistant Coach Mohamed Youssef has said that his players are ready for their Champions league tomorrow’s test against Algerian side JS Saoura despite fatigue. The Cairo giants will be hosted by their JS Saoura in Bechar in the second round of the CAF Champions League group stage. “All the players are ready for Friday’s match. We have a programme to get the players ready on both the physical and technical levels amid the fatigue after the long trip to Algeria from Cairo,” Youssef was quoted as saying by Ahly’s official website on Wednesday. “We know that JS Saoura is an outstanding team, especially on their pitch. I hope that we secure a positive result to continue our way towards the group summit successfully,” he added. Ahly opened their African Champions League campaign on Saturday with a 2-0 win over DR Congo’s Vita Club in Alexandria. “We don’t think of the result of the opening match as we deal with every game separately,” the assistant coach concluded.