THE Principal Judge, Dr Eliezer Feleshi, yesterday sealed off the move by ACT-Wazalendo leader, Zitto Kabwe to block the Parliament from grilling, on Monday, the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), Prof Mussa Assad, over his recent remarks against the legislature. This followed the refusal, for the second time, by the High Court to admit and register the constitutional petition in which Zitto intended to file against the decision of the Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai, over the matter. "My finding to that, the Registrar acted within her powers (......) and she was absolutely right in returning back the petition documents to the advocate for the petitioner for rectification of deficiencies noted," Dr Feleshi told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam in an exclusive interview. On January 16, 2019, the High Court Registrar's Office refused to admit the petition in question on two basic reasons, including lack of affidavits of other four petitioners to the matter to have not been accompanied to the chamber summons in support of the case. It was noted from the records that only Zitto Kabwe had prepared and attached his affidavit to support the petition, while those of Saed Kubenea, Hamidu Bobali, Salome Makamba and Antony Komu were missing in the petition documents. Another reason advance by the Registrar as the basis of refusing to admit the petition was that the summons or order claimed to have been issued to the CAG by the Speaker of the National Assembly and, or the affidavit of the CAG to support the petition were not attached as annexure. Giving more details on the matter, the Principal Judge clarified that admission and registration of cases is a domain of the court registry, ordinarily manned by the registrars. He said that such officials were daily responsible and register cases in accordance with the law. According to him, he was not personally aware of what was happening on the matter until when his attention was called upon by complaints made by Zitto, as the first petitioner and his advocate, Ms Fatma Karume, in a matter involving five petitioners. Dr Feleshi said that having followed up the matter, he found that it was a constitutional petition which Zitto and his advocate had presented to the court's registry for admission and then the documents were returned to them due to incompleteness. He said that a look at the governing law, section 5 of Basic Right and Duties Enforcement Act and Rule 45 of Basic Right and Duties Enforcement (Practice and Procedure) Rules, the petition was to be filed by way of originating summons accompanied by an affidavit. The Principal Judge disclosed that the District Registrar discovered the petition was not accompanied by affidavits of other four petitioners, hence her decision to return the petition document to the advocate for her to work on the defects. "My finding to that is, the Registrar acted within her powers because the attachment of the affidavit was mandatory and statutory requirement as per the law. So, it is not true that the Registrar dealt with evidential aspects of the intended petition," Dr Feleshi said. He said that what the Registrar did was a matter of form and contents for the petition document to qualify the admission and registration and payments of the prescribed legal filing fees for it to be subsequently placed before the judge to assignment and other consequential orders. The Principal Judge further noted that after they had complained to the Chief Justices on the matter and being directed to go back to him, Zitto and his advocate attempted to address the deficiencies on the petition by removing the other four petitioners, leaving Zitto alone. "However, on a subsequent examination of the document, the Registrar noted that despite the removal of other four petitioners they were still been referred to in some pages of the document. Furthermore, Zitto's jurat in his affidavit was not attested in accordance with the law," Dr Feleshi pointed out. He added, "So, with me again, that return of the document for the second time is still with the ambit of the powers exercisable by the Registrar due to the inclusion or reference made to other four petitioners, who were not party to the purported petition." After all, he said, return of documents by Registrars were matters that frequently occur in court's registries; only that prudent parties always correct the documents quietly and work on the deficiencies without engaging the media and other means of communications like twitter, instagram and whatsapps. The Principal Judge assured wananchi that any pleading that is in conformity with the admission standards in terms of the law as regards to the matters of forms would not be returned to the parties, but always would move to the second stage of scrutiny by the responsible judge and for the admission. The CAG said on Thursday that he will appear before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee in Dodoma next Monday. The CAG statement came a few hours after the National Assembly Speaker, Job Ndugai maintained his summon to Prof Assad, insisting that he was an officer of parliament. Prof Assad said he was respecting the National Assembly, maintaining that the National Audit Office (NAOT) and the legislature were in good working relations and that he could not defy the speaker’s call.