We are still ‘sunbathing’, so to speak, in the two-week period following the joyous celebrations commemorating the 55th anniversary of the Zanzibar revolution of 1964, which successfully ousted Sultan Jamshid Abdullah’s Zanzibar Government from power that took place 0n 12th January, 1964. Hence it is still in order for me to entertain my readers with stories relating to that glorious revolution. In my weekly article last Thursday, I presented the story of what I described as the “root cause” of the revolution. I am delighted that many of our readers were quite pleased with that historical presentation, to the extent that one of them, an old friend, Ndugu Mohamed Khalfan, helpfully volunteered additional information from his own personal knowledge and recollections of the relevant events; which is that “the Government which was formed after the 1961 general election, embarked on filling important posts in the Civil Service by giving unfair preference to members of the community which was supporting ZNP in their political ambitions. It was a foregone conclusion that the imposed Sultan’s Government would not survive”. This has also enriched my own little knowledge of the relevant events, for which I am sincerely grateful to Ndugu Khalfan. It is such encouraging comments that gave me the motivation to create this week’s presentation, aimed at throwing more light on some of the unexpected circumstances, which emerged immediately following the success of that revolution; which I have called the ‘aftermath of that revolution’ in the heading of this article. The aftermath of the 1964 Zanzibar revolution In ordinary English language usage, the word “aftermath” is normally used to describe a situation which exists as a result of an important, but usually unpleasant event, such as a war. That is why we have often heard pronouncements such as the following: “a lot of rebuilding work took place in the aftermath of the war”. The Zanzibar revolution was undoubtedly an ‘unpleasant event’ to those who lost power, namely the Sultan and his followers; but it was most certainly a very pleasant event to those who acquired power, the Afro-Shirazi Party, whose story in relation thereto, was told in last week’s article. But in the context of this presentation, I have used that word to describe the worrying situation which emerged in Zanzibar immediately after that pleasant revolution; namely, the ‘cold war’ challenges, which our founding fathers, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume, had to contend with at the material time. The cold war For the benefit of the current young generation, who may be unfamiliar with what was the ‘cold war’ then; it may be necessary to explain that the term “cold war” refers to the situation which existed during the period under discussion, wherein there existed two distinct ‘Blocks’ of countries, commonly known as the ‘Western Block’ and the ‘Eastern Block’. They were not actually at war, but there existed between them, very unfriendly relationships, actually amounting to hatred and strong political enmity. This open enmity between the two unfriendly camps, also greatly influenced their respective relationships with the other countries of the world. And that, precisely, is what happened immediately following the Zanzibar revolution of 1964; and continued after the Union between Zanzibar and Tanganyika which produced the United Republic of Tanzania. Thus, there were two distinct phases of the ‘cold war’ impact in relating to Tanzania. The first was focused on Revolutionary Zanzibar, but the second was focused on the United Republic of Tanzania. The first phase The first phase occurred immediately after the success of that Revolution; while the second phase followed immediately after Zanzibar’s Union with Tanganyika. The first phase was caused by the ‘scramble for influence’ in Zanzibar, which emerged when both sides of the ‘cold war’ divide, sought to garner influence in Zanzibar immediately after the revolution. Whereby the ‘Western block’ was keen on having a friendly Government in Zanzibar as a strategic asset in the Indian Ocean area; And, on its part, the ‘Eastern Block’ made great efforts to cultivate a strong communist element in the new Zanzibar leadership, in order to create an ideological ally in East Africa. That, indeed, was the main concern of the ‘Western Block’, namely the fear that the ‘Eastern Block’ might establish a communist regime in Zanzibar, that would turn it into a ‘communist satellite’ which could then serve as a beachhead for communist incursion into the African continent. For over a month after the revolution, both the Americans and the British, had withheld recognition of President Karume’s Government. Thus, in mid-February, 1964, The Zanzibar Government declared American and British diplomats, persona no grata, simply because of this lack of recognition. The relevant records show, that “being concerned that the absence of Western representation would make a communist takeover even more likely, President Lyndon Johnson personally called British Prime Minister Alec Douglas Home to urge recognition”. And further that “in the meantime, with Tanganyika President Nyerere’s help, the United States successfully negotiated a delay in the expulsion of its diplomats, when President Karume promised not to expel the diplomats so long as there was an immediate announcement of recognition”. Indeed, the fear of communist infiltration into Zanzibar was also a serious concern for the Tanganyika leadership, as evidenced by Tanganyika’s Foreign Minister Oscar Kambona’s statement, who made it known that the key issue for the Tanganyika Government was the desire to maintain local autonomy from foreign interference. He said the following: “Our first concern was the growing communist presence in Zanzibar, and, secondly, the danger of the cold war influence coming in . . .Both Nyerere and Karume are seriously concerned about increasing super power interference in Zanzibar”. Kambona later explained, that it was partly out of this strong concern that “the two Presidents agreed to end revolutionary Zanzibar’s tenuous sovereignty and place it within the framework of a new sovereign state, that came to be known as the United Republic of Tanzania”. The second phase The second phase started very soon after the establishment of the Union, when the Union leadership had to contend continuously with a series of undercover activities, relating to attempted interventions, forgeries, and even planted rumors. It was, essentially, just a continuation of the first phase; but whose sum total created certain serious diplomatic conflicts with West Germany (as it was then); as well as with the United States of America. At that particular time in its history, the present Germany consisted of two separate countries, known as East Germany and West Germany; and there also existed great, and active enmity between those countries. The conflict with West Germany The conflict with West Germany was caused by that country’s “Hollstein Doctrine”, which allegedly prevented it from maintaining diplomatic relations with any country which recognized East Germany. In the instant case, West Germany had established its Embassy in Tanganyika soon after that country’s independence. And, following the successful Zanzibar revolutions of January 1964, East Germany had also quickly established its Embassy in Zanzibar. That initially created no problem for West Germany, because Zanzibar and Tanganyika were separate countries. But after the Union was established, the hitherto separate countries became one Sovereign State, that is to say, one country. That is when West Germany’s “Hollstein doctrine” became applicable. Because by retaining both Embassies, the United Republic of Tanzania clearly offended the said doctrine. Consequently, West Germany insisted that the East Germany embassy in Zanzibar must be closed; and attempted to put pressure on President Nyerere, with the thinly veiled threat that failure of that being done, West Germany would withdraw its military aid to Tanzania. (West Germany’s military aid mainly consisted of helping to establish an Air wing of the Tanzania Peoples’ Defense Forces). Our readers are presumably aware of the often repeated ethical principle of “no aid with strings attached”. This was a manifest demonstration of ‘strings’ being attached to aid; and, of course, President Nyerere would have none of it! Whereupon he angrily summoned the West Germany Ambassador, and bluntly told him “to take away the rest of your aid as well. Because Tanzania will never accept any aid with strings attached”. That was indeed done, and West Germany abandoned all its aid projects in Tanzania. Nkrumah Hall at the University of Dar es Salaam, which was still under construction with aid money provided by West Germany, became one of the victims of that un-ceremonial abandonment. That episode obviously created considerable tension between the two countries. But eventually, thanks to sincere good will on both sides, an agreed solution was later found, with East Germany being allowed to retain a Consulate in Zanzibar. Conflict with the United States of America Unfortunately, the conflict with the United States was principally based only upon rumours of attempted external interference, and suspected forgeries. What happened is that in November 1965, three letters, ostensibly stolen from the Office of the Congolese Prime Minister Moise Tshombe, were handed over to Tanzania’s Ambassador in Kinshasa, Andrew Tibandebage. One of the said letters revealed an alleged plan by the American Government, “to bombard all the strategic points being used by communist China inside Tanzania; and, as a second measure, to make arrangements to overthrow the Government of Mr Julius Nyerere, in the manner now being studied by the Department of State”. Ambassador Tibandebage dutifully and quickly, travelled to Dar es Salaam to present those documents to Minister for Foreign Affairs Oscar Kambona, and to President Nyerere. On his part, Minister Kambona urgently called a Press conference, at which he vehemently condemned the said documents; and, in particular, stir public alarm and concern, regarding the alleged American Government plot. Obviously, this incident produced very negative impact on Tanzania’s diplomatic relations with the United States. However, it soon appeared that even at the time, President Nyerere himself had suspected the said letters to be forgeries, probably intended to create only a psychological attack, rather than a military one. So, he skillfully brought the matter to a close by opening the door to a subsequent retraction, without undermining his Government’s credibility. He did that in a speech delivered at a pre-planned mammoth demonstration, which was organized ostensibly for the purpose of publicly condemning the alleged ‘American plot’; but which was in fact intended to give President Nyerere the opportunity to defend the Government’s strong reaction represented by Minister Kambona’s fury which he had demonstrated at the said press conference. At the said rally, President Nyerere explained as follows: “these letters could indeed be forgeries. But the Government had to react strongly, simply because there have been so many other forgeries, but which were in fact real”! He therefore justified the Government’s strong reaction by quoting the well-known Kiswahili proverb, whose English translation is “a person who has once been bitten by a snake, will be startled even when he encounters a totally harmless palm leaf”. Thereafter, peace and calm was restored, and the ugly incident was closed without causing any further damage to the diplomatic relations between the two countries. “All is well that ends well”; said good old William Shakespeare, in one of his Plays which bears that title.