More than 5,900 students in Tanzania are learning Chinese language in government schools from Form One to Form Four. A pilot project of teaching Chinese language in public secondary schools that begun two years ago is bearing fruit and looks achievable as most students under the project can now speak the language. “Chinese language is specifically chosen as China is a global economic superpower and to keep abreast of the leader of economy is to speak the language,” said Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology, William Ole Nasha during a farewell ceremony to Chinese teachers at Zanaki Secondary School recently. Handing over certificates to 10 Chinese teachers, who were returning to China, he added that Tanzanians needed to utilise opportunities offered in the market today and not be prevented by a language barrier. “In order for the country to be an industrial economy and middle income economy, we need competent and skilled people conversant with foreign languages as the world was becoming less than a village,” he noted. “This endeavour is not set to confuse Tanzanians as there are challenges even in Kiswahili, which is our national language, but this will not stop us from introducing things that will help us. If we really want to compete and utilise opportunities in today’s world, then multiple languages are needed.” Currently, there is a strategy of strengthening Kiswahili in the country, but foreign languages cannot be avoided as Tanzania is part of the world. “If we want to improve the education system in the country it’s a must to have one that prepares citizens, especially the youth, to compete in the future economy of the world. To be fluent in a variety of languages has a competitive advantage,” he said. He explained that Chinese language was chosen because apart from it being an economic superpower, which had invested a lot in the country, China had been a good friend to Tanzania for a long time and the language would create an even stronger bond between the two countries. “With Kiswahili being among the international languages now, recognised by the African Union and spoken by countless people across the African continent, the ministry has provided scholarship opportunities to 10 Chinese to study Kiswahili at the University of Dar es Salaam every year to ensure our language is spread to other continents,” he noted. Urging Tanzanians to embrace this initiation and enrol in Chinese language classes as the world was changing, he said, “Once you master speaking more than English language it provides leverage to a Tanzanian to utilise any opportunity across the world and this is what we are creating in our children.” Chinese Embassy Cultural Counsellor, Gao Wei said a Chinese language programme for secondary schools put forth by the government together with Confucius Institute from china so far it was piloting in 16 government schools across the country with over 5,000 students enrolled.