THE African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR) has completed the digitisation of its proceedings, a move which will improve the Arusha-based court’s handling of cases. AfCHPR President, Sylvain Oré revealed this through his New Year address released to the media on Thursday evening. “We have initiated or completed major new projects such as the digitalisation of proceedings before the Court,”disclosed the Ivorian Judge in his New Year address. Apart from going digital, the court has, since its establishment seen the improvement of case-handling processes, enhanced staffing, legal division and the strengthening of the legal aid mechanism through the ongoing establishment of the assistance fund, he pointed out. The AfCHPR President further disclosed that the court had also proceeded with plans to launch its Reparations Guidelines and the Framework for Monitoring Reporting and Implementation of its Decisions. The Ivorian singled out AfCHPR’s increased judicial productivity as the notable feature of the Arusha-based court. “It should be noted that the number of decisions rendered by the Court was significantly higher than in 2017, reaching twice the figures achieved in 2016,” he revealed. While such result exceeds expectations, Judge Oré observed that AfCHPR’s mission and the current and potential overcrowding of its docket required an increased effort. According to Judge Oré, the willingness to reform working methods from within the Court, combined with the reform proposals under discussion at the level of the African Union, augured well for changes that could significantly improve these results from the first session this year. He noted that the strong commitment of the Judges and staff of the Court also points to an increased productivity in the coming year. The AfCHPR President said the Arusha-based court will finalise the establishment of the legal aid fund and the dissemination of documents relating to such a mechanism. He also assured the public that the court will continue its cooperation with States and other relevant stakeholders, including civil society, advocacy groups and academic institutions. Judge Oré observed that the strengthening of cooperation will extend to providing a new impetus to the continental and inter-continental judicial dialogue, in particular through tripartite cooperation between the African Court and the European and Inter-American Courts of Human Rights. “This sustained cooperation, in particular with States, the Union's other human rights bodies and litigants from various parts of the continent and elsewhere, is in line with our "collective responsibility" to uphold human rights, as proclaimed in the relevant chapter of the Union's Agenda 2063.” AfCHPR is composed of eleven Judges, nationals of Member States of the African Union elected in their individual capacity. It meets four times a year in Ordinary Sessions and may hold Extra-Ordinary Sessions. Established through a Protocol to the African Charter, the Court had by October 1 last year, received 190 applications and has finalised 48 matters.a