THE Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has not yet decided the outcome of the 7bn/- economic and money laundering trial of four prominent figures, including renowned advocate, Dr Ringo Tenga. Senior State Attorney Patrick Mwita told the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar ers Salaam yesterday when the case came for mention that they needed more time for the process to be accomplished. “Under the circumstances, we request for another mention date,” he submitted. The Magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and adjourned the case to January 18, 2019. But, before such adjournment, advocate Oscar Magoroso pushed for the process to be expedited and in the next mention date the prosecution should provide the stage that has so far been reached. Other prominent figures facing the criminal charges in the trial are former Managing Director with Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), Peter Noni, Managing Director of Six Telecoms Company Limited, Hafidh Shamte, alias Rashid Shamte and the Company’s Chief Finance Officer Noel Chacha. They have been charged in the case jointly with Six Telecoms Company Limited on account of their positions in the company. Apart from Shamte and Chacha, the charge sheet indicates that Dr Tenga and Dr Noni are also directors of the provider of integrated telecommunications Services Company. The prosecution alleges that the accused committed the offences on different dates between January 2014 and January 2016, within the city and region of Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that in order to obtain a financial or personal gain, the accused fraudulently undercharged International Incoming Telecommunication Traffic at a rate below the minimum rate of 0.25 US dollar cents per minute. The prosecution alleges that within the same period, on account of their respective positions in the company, fraudulently and with intent to avoid payments, the accused persons failed to pay to Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) revenue amounting to 3,282,741.12 US dollars. It is further alleged that being officials with the company, the accused and the company failed to pay regulatory fees amounting to 466,010.07 US dollars to TCRA. The prosecution also alleged that by their willful act, the accused caused TCRA to suffer a pecuniary loss of 3,748,751.22 US dollars. On money laundering charges, the prosecution alleged that between January 2014 and January 2016 in the city, the accused acquired, used or administered money amounting to 3,282,741.12 US dollars, while knowing or ought to know that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of fraud. The prosecution alleges further that within the same time, Six Telecoms Company Limited used or administered money amounting to 3,282,741.12 US dollars, while knowing or ought to know that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of fraud and other related offences.