THE Mpanda District Commissioner (DC), Ms Lilian Matinga issued 14 day notice to religious, civil institutions and citizens to clean cemeteries surrounding Mpanda Town, short of that the government will prohibit them from burying dead bodies there. She further said that violating the directive will mean that they will have to secure other alternative burial grounds, not close to the township. “Those who will defy this directive and go on to bury their loved ones… first will be asked to put down the coffins until they clean the burial area and thereafter be allowed to continue with other burial processes,” said the DC. She hinted that she reached the decision after realising that the cemeteries were becoming bushy with no care and turning to be hideouts of criminals. “Thick bushes have grown amidst the burial areas, which are now criminal dens who allegedly attack the public …simply because religious, civil institutions and wananchi have failed to clean them for quite sometimes now. “I am saying each and every burial site of a religious institution, as well as civil organisations, who for sure want to burry their people there must clean them, otherwise they will be barred,” added Ms Matinga. She further said that official written letters from her office will be handed over on Monday (today) to the diverse groups notifying them that as from February 15 this year, special operation will be carried out to identify the rebellious groups and further action would be taken. “I hope the Regional Police Commander (RPC) has heard of this and what I have said is as February 15, this year special operation to identify the disobedient people will take place. Any person(s) who will ignore my directive will face the consequences, including being barred from burying their dead ones,” stressed the DC. In his comment, Mpanda Municipal Mayor, Mr Wiilly Mbogo said the situation was really embarrassing for them and the residents, which in away was becoming a hideout of criminals. “It is very disheartening that our funeral grounds have grown into thick bushes ....we will provide short period of time for religious institutions , individuals as well as civil groups whose dead persons are buried there to clean them, that way will also flush out even criminals,” he said. On his part the Katavi Regional Acting Police Commander (RPC), Mr Benidict Mpujila, appealed to the residents to corporate with them by providing them with information, which may lead to arrest of criminals in their midst. However, a section of the residents called upon the government to educate them on the importance of cleaning burial sites, before barring them from using the cemeteries. Meanwhile, the Katavi Regional Referral Designated Hospital Secretary, Ms Misi Sila said their health facility was providing discharged patients with fruit seedling trees so that they can plant them at their homes. “Every discharged patient will be given one fruit seedling tree and this is one of the ways of sensitizing the public on the significance of environmental conservation,” she said.