TANZANIA is among the top five African countries with the highest numbers of herds of domestic animals, but is still a high short supply of chicken meat, pork, beef, milk to name but a few. The market prices of these foodstuffs are comparative very high, for example, one litre of locally processed and packaged fresh milk sells almost at $2 and imported fresh milk stands at $3; while a kilogramme of local chicken breeds cost more than $4, and a mixed kilogramme of beef is about $3. These prices could be taken as incentives to attract huge investments in the livestock production and improve the government revenues. The climate and vegetation in Tanzania supports livestock production of all kinds including cattle, chicken, ducks, goats, sheep, pigs, donkeys and dogs. Similarly, there is large spacious unoccupied land where industrial scale livestock production can be implemented. Furthermore, the availability of large population of unemployed youths makes it possible to obtain affordable labour force to support investment and making the livestock production profitable. The impact of the livestock industry to the country economic growth can be very significant, if there’s serious purposeful implementation of strategies aimed at making this sector, one of the pillars of Tanzania economic development. The livestock production sector can reduce unemployment and poverty within two to three years of investment. In the past few years, many cattle keepers suffered a big loss from malicious regional or district councils’ regulations, which rejected keeping cattle or pigs within their boundaries. Surely, nobody knows if such regulations have been amended, changed or just there is a change in leadership and the current leaders have decided to keep silent on these regulations. Therefore, these regulations must be reviewed to benefit the livestock production and make it possible for each district council to accommodate livestock production. The limitation set by the Councillors prevents innovation in the livestock production, because surely with the available technologies, a place where initially could not support cattle or any other livestock, can be made suitable through technology. There should be free choice from the interested investor on the type of livestock to be produced in an area and not to be dictated by councils’ regulations. It is very sad that most of the district councils which were rejecting and kicking out cattle within their boundaries are the ones leading in malnutrition and stunting. Meaning, the leaders of the time generally lacked the understanding of the health benefits gained from eating meat, milk and eggs. Meat, milk and eggs are classified as the highest supplier of nutrients such as proteins, vitamins and minerals into the human body as raw materials for both physical and mental development. These nutrients are highly required in large quantities during childhood throughout to adolescence. However, adults still need these nutrients to maintain a proper functioning immune system and vitality of reproductive system. It is obvious a blessing to have livestock kept within your vicinity and a spurious conclusion, can then be drawn that, probably the councillors who were implementing these malicious regulations against cattle keepers suffered childhood malnutrition and have impaired thinking capacity. To reflect further on this farfetched conclusion in each zone, meaning the geographical zones of Tanzania; Central Zone, Coastal Zone, North Zone, Lake Zone and Southern Highlands Zone, there is a national animal production ranch. For example, Kongwa ranch caters for central regions animal producers, Ruvu and Tanga caters for coastal regions, Mabuki and Shirati caters for Lake zone and Sumbawanga for Southern highlands, there are many more in different regions. In addition, there is a National Agency assigned to keep and maintain continuous animal production matching with the prevailing technology of the time. However, majority of Tanzanian livestock keepers still keep less profitable indigenous breeds including those living within close vicinity to the boarders of these ranches. Therefore, the overall question is “Why is there no spillover and adaptation of livestock production technologies practiced in the ranches to livestock keepers around or outside the ranches?” The proper responses to this question may include the fact that there is lack of policies and political will to promote adaption of this livestock production. But also could be lack of knowledge on the incomes which can be realised from livestock production and then is not prioritized by the policy implementers. The Government of Tanzania, specifically the ministry responsible for livestock production must avail the existing policies and open up for discussion with the stakeholders in the livestock production and allow amendments to curb the bottlenecks. The revision of policies must be implemented in line with serious commitment on the government side to ensure availability of the key needs of the livestock production. The investment in livestock production on the government side includes introduction and supply of improved breeds of cattle, chicken, ducks, goats, sheep, pigs, donkeys and dogs which are compatible to Tanzania climate and the prevalent diseases. This can go hand in hand with availability of committed veterinary officers to provide technical assistance to the investors and veterinary medicines. In addition, the government should streamline export of animals and animal products by finding suitable markets for large sales and standardization of taxes. Since President Dr John Pombe Magufuli has initiated a consultative forum and addressing the sectorial challenges in a bottom up approach, let me request the favour of President JPM to schedule a consultative meeting with stakeholders in the livestock production similar to those recently conducted for religious and mineral sectors’ representatives. This is very important because the shortage of meat and milk currently faced by the nation is lethal to the health and wellbeing of the children and adolescents. But also the livestock production sector can provide immediate employment to many people of all kinds of educational background, because the chain of livestock production encourages investments in processing industries and transport sectors. Furthermore, the Banks and financiers will be able to trade with the livestock investors and their employees through issuing loans.