Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) is set to improve a clinical system to expedite better services. MNH Executive Director, Prof Lawrence Museru, said this yesterday as he spoke to specialist doctors on how to improve service delivery. The hospital serves about 1,200 to 1,300 inpatients and 1,500 outpatients daily, with many of them arriving early in the morning even if their clinics start in the afternoon. Prof Museru said such a step intended to improve health services provided in respective clinics and eliminate congestion as patients waited on a queue to see specialist doctors at the hospital. “Heads of department through doctors should submit suggestions to create a better environment, where patients will spend a short time before meeting doctors. We do not want patients to wait for a long time,” noted Prof Museru. Prof Museru promised specialist doctors that the MNH administration under the board of trustees would continue improving their working environment, enabling them to offer better services to patients. “May we continue using well and effectively the available infrastructure to attend to patients because people trust us and that's why many of them have been very impressed by our services," he appealed. He expressed his gratitude to all service providers and members of staff for their diligence that had influenced major reforms in the provision of health services in the country, especially in the past three years. Commenting on the availability of drugs at the hospital, he said the hospital continued providing drugs to patients to ensure each of them was treated on time. At the meeting, the doctors discussed ways of improving health services and agreed to work hard to achieve the goals set by the hospital to provide the best specialist services in the country . The hospital currently has 2,705 employees, of which 328 are doctors, 186 specialists and 142 ordinary doctors. In addition, the hospital has 946 nurses, with the remaining staff coming from other departments.