LAND, Housing and Human Settlements Development Minister William Lukuvi has assured wananchi that the government will no longer demolish houses constructed in unsurveyed plots. Mr Lukuvi said the government will instead formalise the settlements, noting that President John Magufuli has given an opportunity to all wananchi in urban areas who have constructed houses without following town plans and other legal procedures to have their buildings formalised. “The Head of State has allowed wananchi who do not have title deeds to formalise their residences, there will be no demolition anymore because it was not their fault,” he said. Mr Lukuvi was speaking during his official tour of Simanjiro and Manyara districts to resolve various land disputes. He asked wananchi to use the opportunity effectively. “The government cares about its people, it’s obvious those who built houses in squatters had no choice…the government will not demolish their houses, instead it will help them to go formal,” he said. The minister asked wananchi to apply for the title deeds so that they can support the government through payment of property tax. “We need to support the government by paying tax, I would like to ask all of you to seek title deeds so that you can easily pay tax to the government,” he noted. While in Simanjiro District, the minister was informed that only 1,000 residents have title deeds, thenumber that hardly reflects the population and houses available in the area. He urged the residents to apply for title deeds to add value to their land and houses. Simanjiro MP James Ole Millya said the government is doing a great job, which basically focuses on bringing development to wananchi. He said only 150 owners of plantations in Simanjiro have title deeds. “At least 120,000 acres of plantations are owned by 150 people in Simanjiro, but still we have large land that is owned without title deeds,” he said. The minister said his office has started the process to revoke the title deeds of 55 plantations whose owners have violated the ownership terms.