The European Union (EU) and African Union (AU) have held a successful summit in which the EU committed to deploy 4.1bn euro to leverage an estimated 37bn euro in African and European private investments. A statement released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation yesterday said the meeting was held in Brussels, Belgium, from January 21 to 22 this year, explaining that the funds were under the European external investment plan. The meeting heard of the launch of the European initiative ‘Africa-Europe Alliance for Sustainable Investment and Jobs’ and encouraged both sides to engage in further consultations to ensure that the implementation of the alliance concepts responded to the priorities of both continents. That was the first series of ministerial meetings as it was agreed in Abidjan, Ivory Coastin November 2017 and brought together ministers of foreign affairs, Tanzania being represented by Ambassador Augustine Mahiga. The meeting was co-chaired by High Representative of European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Ms Federica Mogherini and Foreign Minister of Rwanda and Chair of the African Union Executive Council, Mr Richard Sezibera. “As closest neighbours, Europe and Africa are already prime trade, investment and development partners. In Abidjan, it was agreed to redouble joint efforts to advance sustainable and inclusive growth, economic transformation and development." “In particular, the two partners agreed to cooperate on enhancing the investment climate, as well as mobilising investments in the fields of agriculture, infrastructure, energy, digitalisation, industry and air transport, among others,” the statement said. The ministers also welcomed the sub-regional cooperation and integration initiatives, with a view to creating an integrated and competitive African market and fully aligned with the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and the contribution they can make to stability, prosperity and sustainable development on the African continent. The communiqué highlighted that the ministers committed to joining efforts to combat corruption in the two continents and promote international cooperation to combat illicit financial flows and tax avoidance and evasion, as well as to strengthen cooperation on asset recovery. The ministers stressed the importance of creating the right skilled labour force by investing in youth through market-responsive education and training opportunities, especially for girls, including rolling out more vocational training and education programmes as well as scientific exchanges with the involvement of the private sector. “The participants further agreed on the importance of internationalisation and harmonisation of higher education in Africa to develop a culture of mobility with a view to increasing quality of education and comparability. In this respect, mobility of students and staff shall be further supported since it is seen as a key driver of socio-economic development as it helps to equip young people with relevant skills to build their future,” it reads in part. Ministers welcomed the launch of the revitalised AU Peace Fund and the commitment to mobilise resources from AU member states to the target of $400m by 2021 to finance AU operational peace and security activities. It was explained that the fund should become a major instrument for Africa and its partners investing in peace and security in Africa.