GIRLS and secondary schools for girls have shined in Form Two National Assessment examination results released yesterday by the National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA). NECTA Executive Secretary, Dr Charles Msonde announced the list of the top ten schools in the Form Two results of which six are girls' schools. Moreover, in the best top ten best students in the said exams, seven are girls including the overall best student; Layla Atokwete from the Dar es Salaam-based Canossa Secondary School. The best top six positions have been scooped by girls and their schools in brackets are Bernadetha Kabuche (St Aloysius Girls), Lissa Asenga (Feza Girls), Janeth Shirima (St Aloysius Girls), Angel Massawe (Marian Girls) and Careen Ngowi (Henry Gogarty). The leading boy Samson Mwakabage (Jude) comes seventh followed by Justina Pius (Canossa), Johnson Sanga (Marian Boys) and Samelneco Silaa (Libermann Boys). Dr Msonde said the best top ten students were picked based on their Grade Point Average (GPA) in the seven subjects in which they performed well. As for the top ten schools, there are six girls’ schools including the leading St Francis Girls in Mbeya. Others in the list are Bright Future Girls, St Monica Moshono Girls, Bethel Sabs Girls, Anwarite Girls and St Aloysius Girls. The four co-education schools in the fray are Thomas More Machrina, Centennial, St Augustine- Tagaste and St Mary's Ulete. Dr Msonde announced the least ten schools and the regions in bracket as Ocean (Mtwara), Mdando (Tanga), Kwashemshi (Tanga), Miteja (Lindi), Thaqalain (Dar es Salaam), Korona (Arusha), Imbafi (Dodoma), Magindu (Coast), Mashindei (Tanga) and Luagala (Mtwara). In the Standard Four National Assessment, Dr Msonde named the top ten regions as Kagera, Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Njombe, Iringa, Ruvuma, Mtwara, Morogoro and Manyara. The top ten schools are Bohari (Kagera), St Severine (Kagera), Twibhoki (Mara), Kemebos (Kagera), Wema (Geita), Imani (Kilimanjaro), Peaceland (Mwanza), Rocken Hill (Shinyanga), Musabe (Mwanza) and Yakini (Arusha). The top ten slots were equally shared by boys and girls namely Bahati Katema (Glory to God), Mwakombo Ahmado (Twibhoki), Musa Elias Musa (Glory to God), Dylan Mfuruki (Bohari), Nelia George (Lwasa), Anastazia Kashaga (Rishor), Doricas Kaaya (Kishapuy), Eligius Kajoki (Mawingu), Mansa Njola (Glory) and Shinje Lutambi (Ng’wakitolyo). Ranking for Standard Four performance in terms of district councils, the best ten are Arusha Municipality, Muleba, Moshi Urban, Ilala Urban, Ulanga, Makambako Township, Korogwe Township, Missenyi, Ilala Rural and Bukoba Municipality.