Mbeya Flames basketball bonanza is the 2019 basketball season opener in Southern Highlands with all big teams and players fully involved. The two-day event organised in collaboration with Mbeya Basketball Association will be staged in March 9 and 10 this year at Roman Catholic Youth Centre Basketball courts in Mbeya. The event’s coordinator Joginda Msai told the ‘Daily News’ from Mbeya yesterday that preparation is on a top gear as the region targets to run one of the best season openers. Msai said that they are happy that the event has received a good support from hosts regional and others invited teams from outside Mbeya. “We have already received massive boosts from participating teams, they have all responded well. Teams from Mbeya and other top teams from other regions have already confirmed, we are delighted to see many teams responding positively to our call,” he said. Msai named teams from Mbeya which have confirmed as Mbeya Elite, Super team, Wakanda, City Bullets, Kabakaba, Mbeya Flames, Tigers Rangers all men’s while Mbeya Flames Queens are the only women sides. He also named Vijana City Bulls, Vijana Queens, Oilers, Oilers Princess as invited teams from Dar es Salaam while Hoopers and Arusha Queens are from Arusha, Dodoma Spurs men and Dodoma Spurs Ladies come from Tanzanian capital. Others are Queens, Buffalo men and Iringa Queens from Iringa while Home Boys come from Rukwa. “This is very good number of teams in this kind of event. They are all top teams thus we expect to see an exciting event this time around,” he said. Msai added that they expect to see a wonderful event as this will open the region’s basketball season, and hopefully everyone will enjoy it and people’s hospitality. He said that they have organised the event that will fully entertain fans and residents of the Southern Highlands. “It is always good to see women teams competing in the event since they are very few of them taking part in different events countrywide.There are at least five teams from Mbeya to spice up the competition challenge,” he said. Msai however, said women basketball teams still need special support so that they can participate fully like men’s sides. “The event like this can be a better platform to encourage many of them to join and start playing the game as we have many talented players in the region,” said Msai. He has also asked companies and sports well-wishers to support the teams and the events.