SEA Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Course of Mangapwani, Zanzibar will open the 2019 golf season with a Monthly Mug tournament to be staged there on January 27, 2019. The course is prepared to welcome the year with a January Mug that will be a par 3 style tournament. The club General Manager, Elias Soka told the ‘Daily News’ from Zanzibar on Saturday that preparations to stage the event are going on well. “I want to take this opportunity to welcome all players and stakeholders at our course to participate in the first 2019 mug competition, which will tee off on January 27th,” said Soka. Soka added that everything was going on well so far for them to start the year events’ calendar and invited golfers from different local clubs and from outside Tanzania and hosts to come forward to compete for the event’s top honours. He said the par 3 style competition is going to be interesting and ideal to start with. “We are looking to start the year lightly. The par 3 tournament is going to be perfect, we welcome all golfers,” said Soka. He added that the event is open for both men and lady golfers with valid handicaps. “Invitations have been extended to other clubs and individual golfers for them to consider their participation,” he said. The manager said that they are hoping for a good response so that they could stage a wonderful event. Soka said that as an usual event, there are heft prizes for the winners of the different categories. According to the organisers, the event is generously sponsored by Tulia Zanzibar Beach Resort, Auric Air Services Ltd and Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Zanzibar. Soka stressed that the club was still looking for sponsors for February and March Mug tournaments and appealed for companies willing to support to contact him. “I want to thank all sponsors for their tireless support and we are looking forward to see all at our beautiful course that has just received an international award,” he said. The course has taken Tanzania to the global focus after winning last year’s World Best Par 3 Golf Course Awards during World Golf Awards ceremony. Organised by World Media and Events Limited T/A of London, England, the awards gala held at La Manga Club, Spain, saw Sea Cliff Resort Golf course scooping top award after beating other five nominees at the world’s Best Par 3 Golf Course 2018 category and became the first Tanzania golf course to win the award in the competition that started in 2014. It has won and rewarded for excellence in golf tourism, world-class courses and golf destinations through annual awards programme.