AUTHORITIES in the country have confirmed that one of the two Tanzanian-flagged commercial vessels which caught fire near the Kerch Strait in the Black Sea on Monday was deregistered last year. Reports obtained by the ‘Daily News’ yesterday indicated that the registration of one of the commercial vessels involved in the accident was revoked by the Zanzibar Marine Authority (ZMA). According to various media reports, the fire broke out on Monday off Russia’s territorial waters killing at least 14 sailors while five others were reported missing. It transpired that the fire erupted while the two vessels, The Maestro and The Candy, were anchored near the Kerch Strait linking the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. The explosion occurred while fuel was being pumped from one tanker to another. The blaze spread from one ship to the other, prompting the crews to jump overboard. Contacted, Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC), Director General Mr Japheth Loisimaye said that according to reports he had received from Zanzibar Maritime Authority (ZMA), the registration of one of the vessels christened Maestro was revoked last year. “After we heard the news of the two commercial vessels flying Tanzanian flags catching fire, we made a follow up and learnt that one was deregistered last year,” he said. He said according to ZMA reports, Maestro was once granted registration of the United Republic of Tanzania under ZMA but it was deregistered in October last year. He added that the authorities were making follow up on the other vessel while seeking the reason why Maestro continued to fly the Tanzanian flag while its registration was revoked. The DG advised the reporter to seek more details from ZMA but efforts to reach the authorities were unsuccessful. According to the DG it was a crime for the vessel to continue flying the country’s flag while it was deregistered. Reports from Federal Maritime Agency said the two vessels had 31 crew members combined who were citizens of Turkey and India. The Kerch Strait is a key waterway that holds strategic importance for both Russia and Ukraine. It is an important economic lifeline for Ukraine that allows ships leaving the port city of Mariupol to access the Black Sea. It’s also the closest point of access for Russia to Crimea, a peninsula Moscow annexed in 2014. A Russian-built bridge over the Kerch Strait opened in May last year. Last year President John Magufuli imposed a temporary ban on the registration of foreign ships in the country and ordered over 400 vessels to be investigated for allegations of involvement in criminal activities.