TANZANIA has been commended for its constant and loyal support to International Criminal tribunals. International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals President Justice Theodor Meron made the comment recently during his visit to Tanzania. He categorically expressed his gratitude for the land given to the tribunal at the Lakilaki area in Arusha city. “Without the support of the Government of Tanzania, we would not be where we are now,” he said, adding that the plot was used to build the new modest courtroom that the tribunal has today. Mr Meron said, “The new modest premises which in addition to housing the courtroom and archives, which are critically important, has a very good library on International Criminal law.” During his visit to Dar es Salaam, President Meron met with the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Dr Damas Ndumbaro as well as foreign diplomats to discuss matters related to the work of the tribunal. He also invited scholars, students and practitioners in Tanzania to use the facilities of Arusha-based Residual Mechanism Tribunal, which has established archives and the best library on criminal law in Tanzania. “We are all partners and we are inviting you to use our facilities or premises as often as you wish. We are doing our best in provision of maximum support to the people,” he noted, adding that the archives are also open to people from Rwanda and other countries. For his part, one of the judges at the tribunal who also serves at the High Court of Tanzania Justice William Sekule said during the life of the tribunals, a panel of judges sat in one place. “It is amazing we have been able over the years now to do a lot of commendable work, we really pay tribute to the availability of the system, internet and able legal officers at the Arusha branch or The Hague branch,” he said. The UN Resident Coordinator, Mr Alvaro Rodríguez said, it was an opportunity to introduce the work of the UN to the people of the world. “In Tanzania, we have many offices in particular; the work of the tribunal has created new jurisprudence on the horrible topic of genocide,” he explained, thanking the media partnership in Tanzania in communicating the UN work.