TANZANIA Livestock Research Institute (TALIRI) has retooled its biotechnology laboratory at its Mpwapwa Centre to improve research infrastructure, a move that will boost cattle production through the use of modern breeding technologies. TALIRI Director General Dr Eligy Shirima said here recently that the use of biotechnology will place the country at the ranks of countries like South Africa on the use of breeding technologies, which include multiple ovulation and embryo transfer (MOET) as well as artificial insemination. “South Africa, for instance, has been efficiently utilising reproductive technologies to improve its livestock productivity,” said the TALIRI boss in an interview with the ‘ Daily News’. Dr Shirima pointed out among the objectives of retooling the laboratory is to provide the Mpwapwa Centre with a robust and sustainable system of disseminating the technologies to farmers and other stakeholders at affordable rate. “The retooling intends to increase capacity of producing improved heifers and bulls for dairy and beef purposes. We for example envisage producing 50 embryos (calves) per cow a year against eight calves per cow in 10 years,” he observed. Dr Shirima said between 480,000 and 500,000 semen straws will be produced for distribution to various farmers, adding that retooling will increase efficiency of the biotechnology laboratory in storage of 500,000 semen straws and 5,200 embryos. “The retooling also intends to increase the institute’s revenues from sales of embryos, conventional and sexed semen, liquid nitrogen, improved livestock and training fees to 5bn/- annually from the current 770m/-,” he said. Dr Shirima said the retooling will contribute to increased jobs and income to youth and other farmers who will be keeping improved dairy cows, adding that it will help to increase consumption of processed milk and other dairy products. The future plans of the centre are to train at least 100,000 stakeholders per year on various assisted reproductive technologies, engage and promote assisted reproductive technologies for other livestock species like goats, sheep and pigs.