THE Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, has disbanded the Board of Directors of the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) for failing to manage and ensure implementation of directives and plans issued by the government. In line with that, the Minister issued a three-month ultimatum to the TTB management, effective yesterday, to implement the directives and plans or else he will dissolve the entire management and task a new workforce that will work according to the required pace. Dr Kigwangalla issued the directives yesterday when he visited the TTB management in Dar es Salaam to check the progress in implementing the plans and resolutions tasked to the TTB by the ministry, to promote and develop the country's tourism attraction hubs. “I revoke the appointment of all directors of the TTB board effective today. I will appoint other members and announce the new board," he said, adding that the fate of the Chairman of the Board will be decided by the authority concerned. Dr Kigwangalla affirmed that the dissolved board has failed to perform to the fullest despite having been appointed to manage the TTB, which handles sensitive matters in the country’s economic development. "The tourism sector is one part which plays a very sensitive role in the development of the country's economy...but you (management) don’t bother," he said, noting that the tourism sector contributes 2.3 billion US dollars to the Tanzania economy and 25 per cent foreign exchange earnings annually. According to Dr Kigwangalla, the World Bank projections indicate that Tanzania's tourism sector has a potential to grow contributing 16 billion US dollars to the country's economy with a record of eight million tourists by 2025. However, the Minister said the projections will not be realised if the TTB which is a major actor in the development of the sector fails to perform and achieve the set goals. In another development, Dr Kigwangalla gave a seven-day ultimatum to the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Tanzania Forests Services (TFS) and Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) to hand over to TTB money set for establishment of the tourism studio. He made the directives after the Acting Director of TTB, Mr Geoffrey Meena informed the Minister that the establishment of the studio which is among the directives he had issued to TTB has not yet commenced since the appointed core stakeholders (TANAPA, NCAA, TAWA and TFS) failed to provide funds. According to Mr Meena, the establishment of the studio set to cost 449m/- was to be implemented with TTB, NCAA and TFS contributing 20 per cent each, TANAPA 30 per cent and TAWA 10 per cent. Dr Kigwangalla vowed to take legal measures against the officials at the institutions for failure to provide the money on time and thus delaying the establishment of the firm. Other directives issued by the Minister included appointment of local tourism goodwill ambassadors to promote the country's tourist attraction destinations. Other issues include identifying major tourism market sources from various countries such as China, Oman, and Germany as well as appointing foreign tourism goodwill ambassadors to supplement the State's efforts in promoting and developing the tourism sector. He said the directives were issued almost a year ago in official meetings conducted by the Minister, but none has been implemented and achieved fully.