CHAMA Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary-General, Dr Bashiru Ally, has been taken aback by the news that some coffee farmers have piles of coffee bags at home and others have not been paid for the coffee collected by Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU). Accordingly, he has directed KCU officials to ensure the farmers, whose coffee has been collected through their primary societies are duly paid. Mr Ally gave the directive during a meeting with CCM leaders from Missenyi and Bukoba districts held in Bukoba Municipal Council yesterday. He was disappointed by reports from several leaders, who said some farmers gave their coffee to KCU several months ago, but to date they had not been paid and others had theirs piled at home. KCU Board Chairman Onesmo Niyegila said all farmers were paid through their agricultural marketing and cooperative societies in line with government directives that wanted them to clear payments by October 20, last year. He also said surplus coffee was due to steps taken by the government in controlling smuggling to a neighbouring country. According to him, KCU had anticipated to collect about five million kilogrammes of coffee in the 2017/18 crop buying season, while to date the target had been surpassed by collecting 13.2 million kilogrammes. Mr Niyegila lamented that lack of favourable export markets was the main stumblingblock and, consequently, some coffee bags were piled at Tanga and Kemondo ports. He also hinted that the union was working on modalities that would enable coffee farmers in Kagera Region to get second payment. “We are still working on the matter. But, I am optimistic that farmers will be paid as plans were underway to stage auctions in Kagera Region starting the next crop buying season,” he noted. Dr Ally also challenged KCU to formulate strategies of getting favourable markets that would ensure farmers got an attractive price. He noted that the main problem was lack of transparency. He thus urged KCU officials to utilise the local media to educate farmers about circumstances and difficulties affecting their union. Starting from the next season, coffee auctions will be held in Kagera Region. This step has been taken to avoid thefts that caused farmers to get a low price. The private sector has also been allowed to participate in auctions and buy the crop at a competitive price. During his recent tour of Kagera Region, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa directed cooperative unions in the region to ensure by October 20, last year, all payments to coffee farmers were cleared, while by October 30, all coffee should have been collected from villages. Mr Majaliwa stressed that all farmers would have to follow a new system, which required them to sell their coffee through the cooperative unions in their areas. “We are doing this basically to protect farmers from exploitation and ensure they get a fair price.”