 FOUR companies that own cashewnut processing plants have been contracted to process the government purchased cash crop in the Southern regions. Agriculture Minister Japhet Hasunga told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview yesterday that the commissioned companies will work with the Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO), hinting that the government has so far collected 225,000 tonnes of cashew nuts from farmers. And, report by Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) indicates that 306bn/- has been paid to over 156,000 farmers in the cash crop growing regions. Addressing reporters on the progress of the cashew nut business last week, Mr Hasunga said the government was looking forward to enter into agreements with various cashewnut plant owners who are ready to process the produce that had been bought from farmers at 3,300/- per kilogramme. The government recently announced that the cashew processing would start soon, inviting individual citizens to  However, Mr Hasunga yesterday refuted the charges, insisting that the government had already purchased all the consignment. “We directed farmers to take their cashew nuts to their respective cooperative societies from where we could buy them, those complaining did not take their produce to the cooperatives,’’ claimed the minister. In November last year, President Magufuli ordered the army to buy all cashew nuts in the country after private companies refused to pay the government fixed minimum price. The move came few hours after President Magufuli had fired former Agriculture Minister Charles Tizeba and his Industry and Trade counterpart Charles Mwijage over “failure in their obligations.” Dr Magufuli ordered soldiers to buy the cash crop at 3,300/- per kilogramme, higher than the price that private companies and dealers were willing to offer. The president blamed “the procrastination of private operators, who were offering low price,” for the cashew, which tops the list of the country’s cash crops. The state-owned TADB was ordered to release the required funds for the purchase of the cashews, with Chief of Defence Forces General Venance Mabeyo directed to deploy soldiers to transport the produce.