The Dar es Salaam Basketball (DB) is set to officially open 2019 training programme for school sports teachers and students. DB Director of Schools and Children, Misoji Mihayo said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the training that will be held every weekend will involve all five Dar es Salaam districts. He said that preparations for the training programme to start are being finalised and encouraged participants to turn up in big numbers. Misoji said that the programme will be staged at different grounds including Makongo Secondary School, which will host the opening of the programme today. “The training will include sports teachers and students… it will start with schools from Ubungo and Kinondoni districts at Makongo grounds today,” he said. Mihayo said that other training grounds will be Ilala-Don Bosco Upanga, Ukongo Airwing, Jitegemee Secondary School and Kigamboni, which will organise coming sessions from next weekend. He added that the training will be conducted by regional qualified coaches, who were selected to train juniors Under -16 and U-18 boys and girl’s teams. The coaches include Mohamed Mchenga (Don Bosco-Savio Upanga), Denis Lipiki (Juhudi Sec/ Ukonga Academy) and Robert Kipanga of Makongo Secondary. According to Mihayo DB president Okore Onesmo is set to grace the opening of the training at Makongo this morning. The Director added that the training aim at identifying talents that will form regional junior teams. “This is an ideal training which is part of our preparation programmes to build strong regional teams ready for Bball junior’s competition,” he said. Mihayo added that Dar es Salaam is determined to regain dominance in the game and he belives that investing in junior level programmes is a perfect place to develop the sport. He said Dar es Salaam is aiming at producing winning teams in several competitions including School Basketball League (SBL), Inter-Primary School Games (UMISETA) and other events that are organised under DB. He appealed for close corporations from all stakeholders so as to attain the desirable goal. “DB is always ready to involve all interested parties including sports wellwishers to reach our goal,” he said.