IT is a blessing for sunflower growers in Dodoma and perhaps in the central zone following good news that the government will set up a sunflower oil production factory in June, this year. The Agriculture Minister, Mr Japhet Hasunga said the plans for the establishment of the factory are at an advanced stage. Mr Hasunga said the move is in line with the government initiative to increase value chain of products so that farmers benefit and at the same time ensure reliability on the availability of cooking oil in the country. He said that the decision is also aimed at getting away with importation of cooking oil to sustain the local market, which has been costing the government foreign earnings. “We have been witnessing increasing sunflower farming in a number of areas in the country, thus, so that the farmers are availed with reliable market, we have decided to have a factory here by June, this year; now that we are sure of enough raw materials for the company,” said the Minister. He said that currently, the government has been spending 400bn/- annually for importation of cooking oil, whereas the fund can be used to improve local companies and farmers’ welfare in terms of good prices for their farm produce. Mr Hasunga said the government has also embarked on an initiative to mobilise farmers to produce crops that will be used for the manufacturing of food oil such as sunflower, palm and groundnuts among others. “The equipment and machines needed for the factory are already here; they are on the fixing and other logistic arrangements, and come June this year, we want production to start,” he insisted. He added that they are also contemplating on the establishing corn flower oil manufacturing unit taking into account the availability of the excess raw materials for the means. “We want to assure our famers of the reliable and availabile market of their farm produce for increased productivity,” said Mr Hasunga. When the factory is set up, he said, more than 250 jobs are expected to be created.