THOSE following local news on television must have been struck by scenarios of the police arraigning young people reportedly from a neighboring country and another scenario of equally young people aboard a passenger train leaving Dar es Salaam heading for the Lake Tanganyika border town of Kigoma. Apparently, the latter group was being deported back to a neighboring country, which they seem to have originated from and had been in Dar es Salaam as hawkers and doing other petty businesses. And in the intervening period and intermittently, we have seen hundreds of young persons apparently from the Horn of Africa, mainly from Ethiopia being arraigned in various spots on the Tanzanian border with Kenya for illegal entry into the country. In this column a couple of years ago, following this upsurge up surge of continuous reigns of illegal immigrants, I have suggested that since this scenery seems to be persistent, it is important that Tanzania’s decision and policy makers address this phenomenon seriously, since it cannot be relegated purely as a matter of law and order. I have also opined about the presence of a flourishing “human trafficking industry” globally with its players making billion of US dollars per annum. For those of us who have been glued to our TV sets a couple of years ago must have been shocked and alarmed to see thousands of people risking their lives in perilous voyages over the Mediterranean and other global seas to reach Europe, hopefully for better life. Oh! My God! It is incredible that thousands of our brethren from this African continent– from North Africa in particular– have taken the risk of venturing into the unknown– ambitious to go and live in countries they know not, and even not sure which jobs await them! All along, it has been very ugly to watch the scenario on television. One sees hundreds of youths, including women and children streaming out into European shores, clamoring to be admitted. Notably, the Mexico/US border is another interesting phenomenon as we have seen its consequences between President Trump and his Congress, which has resulted into his government “shut down”! This is beside the point of this perspective as it is none of our business. But the factor of human trade by those vicious chaps capitalizing on the plight of other people to make money must interest all of us. Just savor the following I followed the other day on the Internet: “It is estimated that human trafficking industry as a whole produces almost $26bn a year for human traffickers alone. “Most journeys happen across the Mediterranean Sea, with more that 200,000 crossings and over 3,000 deaths registered in 2014 alone. It is a global phenomenon.” Wrapping up this story of desperate people making desperate journeys into lands they know not, it is only imperative to thank one of the countries in Europe that has been very kind to these desperate men and women from the Middle East and elsewhere who have made such risky trips into lands they have neither friends nor relatives. This country is Germany. To date, reports indicate that Germany has received and accommodated a million plus refugees from these troubled countries, unlike other countries in Europe, which have slammed their gates in their face. Apparently Germany has done this in the name of humanity. This reminds me of my own country which, since its founding, has been home to fellow Africans who, for one reason or another, have found themselves in this country and sought refugee. This was, of course, during the battle against the former apartheid South Africa and minority rule in Southern Africa. And in the intervening period, this country has seen hundreds of young people taking refugee apparently running away from their respective countries for one reason or another. We are currently seeing hundreds if not thousands of refugees stowing away into Tanzania, sporadically from time to time. These have been from the Horn of Africa apparently wishing to stow away into South Africa; not even sure what to expect when landed there! In these sporadic forays by these youths, our law and order forces, most often than not, have arraigned them; charging them with illegal entry into the country. We have seen this week yet another group being deported back from where they came from as we saw some of them taking a train ride back home funded by the government here. But considering that this problem will not end tomorrow, it may be with us for a long time, it is both important and urgent that our policy and decision makers should think of a long-term resolution of the phenomenon. We had an African Union (AU) summit in Addis Ababa last year. This could have been an appropriate place to bring up this problem for a collective resolution, isn’t it? Not only that, we have regional cooperation institutions such as the East African Community and the larger one – the Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC). I consider it the best option for this country to take this matter of these young people from neighboring countries to these regional bodies for a collective decision on what to do with them bilaterally as neighbors.