AT least 920 employees in Tanzania suffered and were treated for several occupational hazards between 2018 and 2019. Likewise, organisations that violate safety regulations have been penalised by the agency charged with improving health and wellbeing of workers and of workplaces. The Acting Chief Executive of the Occupational Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) Ms Khadija Mwenda revealed this at a stakeholders meeting held here at the weekend. Ms Mwenda said the authority was committed to ensuring that zero accidents at workplaces was enforced. According to Ms Mwenda, the agency will continue to flex its muscles against organisations and employers who ignore safety measures. “One accident is too many, many people are so severely disabled that they can no longer work; we will no longer allow this to happen,” warned the agency’s boss. Ms Mwenda further pointed out that employers in the country had a responsibility of equipping their staff with protective gears while at work, while also taking them through some safety drills to avert occupational hazards. She used the opportunity to remind employers on the need of documenting and reporting to her office all occupational related accidents for reference. “It has come to our attention that many of these incidents go unreported. It is imperative to have them documented so that the agency can advise on what to do to avert more incidents,” stressed the OSHA boss. She challenged Tanzania employers to adhere to the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 2003 to protect the health, safety and welfare of their employees and other people who might be affected by their business. Among other things, the Act makes it obligatory for the employer to provide for health, safety and welfare for all his workers and ensure rehabilitations of affected workers. According to Ms Mwenda, employers must do whatever is reasonably practicable to achieve this. “This means making sure that, workers and others are protected from anything that may cause harm, effectively controlling any risks to injury or health that could arise in the workplace,” she added. She cautioned that organisations that will continue to violate the Act will be summoned by her office and eventually dragged to court. The agency’s services have been enshrined in the Occupational Health and Safety No. 5 of 2003 and other subsidiary legislation which, among other things, gives the agency the mandate to conduct general workplace inspection as well as conducting health and safety audit. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimates that some 2.3 million women and men around the world succumb to work-related accidents or diseases every year; this corresponds to over 6000 deaths every single day. Worldwide, there are around 340 million occupational accidents and 160 million victims of work-related illnesses annually, according to ILO.