MLELE District Commissioner (DC) in Katavi Region, Ms Recho Kasanda has warned parents and guardians whose children will fail to join schools next Monday that they will face the full wrath of the law. The DC sounded the warning while addressing a public rally at Mlele Ward, directing parents to ensure that their children report to schools come January 7. The directive to parents involved all students selected to join secondary education as well as those registered to start pre and primary education this year. Ms Kasanda warned that should any child selected to join Form One starting next Monday fail to turn up to school, a house to house search will be conducted and legal measures instituted against their parents or guardians. She insisted that the search for those who would fail to turn up to schools would be thoroughly planned as the magistrate would accompany government officials during the search. Defiant parents would be immediately indicted. Reports from the district recounted that education sector is afflicted with a myriad of challenges including absenteeism on the part of students as most of them drop from schools and be hired to work in tobacco farms as cheap labourers as well as herding cattle. The latest statistics show that more than 600 children were hired as labourers in tobacco farms. However, due to the intervention by DC Kasanda, more than 400 children were removed from tobacco farms and returned to schools. “I’m directing parents to ensure that all students who have been selected to join secondary education report without failure next Monday. This directive also targets children enrolled for Pre and Primary education,” she insisted. “Let everyone knows that there will be no mercy to all who will defy my directives because I am quite sure they will face the wrath of law as they will be tracked, arrested and arraigned,” warned the DC. Meanwhile a cross-section of residents from the district interviewed admitted that there were some parents who were bent on discouraging their children from performing well in Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) so that they could be hired in tobacco farms to work as cheap labourers as well as grazing herds of cattle.