The SportPesa Tanzania said they are pleased with the way 2019 SportPesa Cup which climaxed last Sunday at the National Stadium in Dar as Salaam was run. Kenyan side Kariobangi Sharks claimed the title after beating their colleagues Bandari FC 1-0 in the final match hence winning themselves an opportunity to host English Premier League (EPL) giants Everton FC. However, contrary to 2017 when Gor Mahia who won the tournament and played against Everton in Dar es Salaam, this time around, Everton will head to Kenya. Tanzania envoys Simba managed to settle third slot in the competition after beating Mbao 5-3 on penalties, meaning that the country’s teams still struggle to make the best of the lucrative contest. Speaking yesterday to the ‘Daily News’, SportPesa Tanzania Communication Officer Sabrina Msuya said everything concerning the competition went according to plans. “Let me take this opportunity to thank all the eight teams from Tanzania and Kenya for fighting hard to emerge winners but as you know, in any competition, only one winner emerge,” Msuya said. She added that next year, the tournament will be back with extra surprises to put another memorable mark in football industry for both Tanzania and Kenya clubs as such, participating teams should start early preparations to excel. “For Tanzania teams, it is a challenge to them because they have failed to clinch the cup for the third year in a row. All is not lost for them as long as they bring in another fighting spirit for the fourth edition next year,” she said. Furthermore, Msuya hailed the support they received from the government and Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) before and during the games saying their input managed to successfully fulfill the competition’s objective. For the first time, SportPesa Cup was telecast on DStv via channel 9, which gave a chance to many people to follow the matches worldwide. Both Singida United and Young Africans were bundled out of the contest in the quarter finals by Gor Mahia and Kariobangi Sharks respectively. In the semifinals, another home pair Simba SC and Mbao FC bowed out to Bandari and Kariobangi Sharks to set an all Kenyan finale for the third consecutive year.