OVER 150 patients have undergone ‘Same-day surgery’ at the Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) in the past two months. Under the arrangement, patients are operated, given rest and discharged on the same day. The department, which was established during the President John Magufuli’s administration, mainly aims at reducing the number of patients in the institute’s wards waiting for surgeries. It normally conducts telescope surgery to patients who need operations on knees or shoulders. The theatre operates between five and seven patients a day. According to MOI Public Relations Officer Patrick Mvungi, the department has been very helpful in addressing patient congestion in the wards. “A patient is operated here and allowed to go home on the same day, this is one of the biggest achievement of the institute during the three years of President Magufuli...we expect that this year many patients will be treated at this section,” he said. He stated this on Wednesday when a team of public relations officers from different institutions under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children visited the institute. The visit was part of their one-week long task to document successes attained in the public health sector institutions during the three years of President Magufuli. Meanwhile, the institute’s department of Radiology has recorded notable achievements, improving services after the government had procured modern equipment for the department. They include a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner and Digital X-Ray which have significantly improved efficiency and reduced time of serving patients. Radiologist Specialist Joel Bwemelo said the department now has all the necessary facilities required to scan all patients. After installation of the modern scanners, the department can now analyse and release over 60 medical reports of images taken from at least 40 patients, daily. Radiographer Ngina Mitti explained that for a long time the department was yearning for the digital x-ray, which, at last, the government has bought. The digital x-ray has ability to take images of 100 patients within two hours.