CHIEF Justice (CJ), Prof Ibrahim Juma, has dismissed the general claims given by members of the public that the Judiciary is corrupt and was not independent. "We are not happy with such general statements. The Judiciary is always transparent. Whatever we do is measured. Our judicial system is so open. We hide nothing," the CJ told a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He was addressing the public on activities that would be carried out by the Judiciary during the law week to be held at national level in the Capital City of Dodoma effective from January 31, 2019, ahead of the Law Day cerebrations to be held in Dar es Salaam on February 6, 2019. The CJ disclosed that President John Magufuli is expected to be the guest of honour during the Law Day cerebrations that will be marked under the theme, "Timely delivery of Justice; The responsibilities of the Judiciary and Stakeholders." Prof Juma pointed out that the Judiciary's case management system allowed everybody to access and monitor proceedings from the filing stage of the case to the delivery of judgment at the trial level and appeals stage. "When one presents his case, the other side is given the opportunity to respond to the claims. Thereafter, every party is allowed to call witnesses and peruse case files at any stage before and after judgment. Judgments are given and reasons are given. What do you want us to do?," he queried. The CJ further explained that they have also put in place a mechanism in the discipline system to easily expose any forms of corruption by reporting persons involved to the relevant authorities, notably the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB). "Every staff member within the Judiciary has a name tag. If you go outside there, every door has numbers of authorities involved where the people can report the corrupt element detected. We do not like these general complaints," he emphasised. Speaking on the law week, the CJ explained that in line with activities that would be conducted in Dodoma, provision of legal education will as well continue at the Dar es Salaam Zone, especially at Mnazi Moja Grounds within the same period before being finalised on the Law Day. The Head of the Judiciary, therefore, called upon the citizens to use such opportunity to learn on different judicial activities and present their grievances on delay of delivery of justice, if any, instead of carrying placards in front of the President during the Law Day. Prof Juma further requested the people to visit the exhibitions where they will get different information about the judiciary, the use of information communication technology in early disposal of cases, procedure of filing cases, legal aid, solving legal problems, among others. Several stakeholders will participate, including the Judicial Service Commission and Attorney General Chambers, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Lushoto Judicial Administration Institute, Law School of Tanzania, Human Rights Centre and Good Governance, Tanganyika Law Society, among others. Apart from provision of legal education, the Judiciary will also give delayed information regarding the implementation of the Five Year Strategic Plan (2015/2016-2020/2021), which was launched by the Prime Minister on September 21, 2016, at Kibaha in Coast Region. During the press conference, the Chief Justice also informed wananchi that the judiciary was now going digital, where litigants could file cases wherever they are without going to court, especially civil cases, and that they have already established a judicial statistics dashboard system.