Young African return to action as they face Biashara United in the fifth round of Azam Sport Federation Cup (ASFC) tomorrow at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The Jangwani Street lads will be looking for redemption after flopping in the just ended SportPesa Cup tournament, where they were knocked out of the tournament by Kenya’s Kariobangi Sharks. The Kenyan side turned up to be eventual winners of the tournament for the first time. And after the disappointment, Yanga regrouped yesterday to commence their preparations ahead of game against the Mara based side United. Both teams will be seeking for a ticket into the last 16 of the ASFC. Reports from the Mwinyi Zahera’s side indicate that all the first team players have entered camp to embark on their final drills ahead of the match. Yanga’s camp also received a major boost following the return of attacking midfielders -- Juma Mahadhi and Raphael Daud, who were out of action for quite some time nursing injuries. Zahera, whose side is currently leading the Mainland Premier League race with 53 points from 20 games are also eyeing for the FA Cup title, which will earn them ticket to represent the Mainland in CAF Confederation Cup. The Congolese tactician has set several targets this season, major among them was to ensure that Yanga return to continental football competitions and the camp means that Yanga are taking things seriously. However, the Jangwani Street lads need to be watchful as Biashara United plan to spring a surprise by knocking out the giants. Going into the match, Biashara United Head Coach, Amri Said has warned Yanga that they should not expect an easy ride, just as walking in the park. He said they (Yanga) should brace for a serious battle. “I’m confident with the strength of my squad and basing on the kind of drills the team has undergone in the past few days, Yanga should expect a tough battle because our aim is to win and progress into the next stage of the tournament,” he said. “I respect Yanga, they are a good team with quality and experienced players but that does not mean that we fear them or we are already losers against them. We will fight to the end,” he said. Winner of tomorrow’s match will join Azam, Mtibwa Sugar, KMC, Kagera Sugar, Mbeya City, Lipuli FC, Alliance FC, Dodoma FC, Coastal Union, African Lyon, Namungo FC and Dar City in the last 16 of the ASFC. In the last16 stage, the winner of Yanga and Biashara United will set a date with Lindi’s Namungo FC, who eliminated Mighty Elephant from the tournament. Azam eliminated Pamba SC from Mwanza by 2-0, and will meet with the winner of the game between Rhino Rangers and Stand United, whereas the tournament title holders Mtibwa Sugar dumped out Majimaji FC of Songea by 2-1 to strengthened their title defence campaign. Winner of ASFC tournament will collect 50m/- and represent the country in CAF Confederation Cup.