Runaway Mainland Premier League leaders, Young Africans will be looking to open a 15 point gap at the summit as they face Stand United at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga this evening. Yanga have already arrived in Shinyanga ready for the match. The Jangwani Street lads will enter the match fresh from their Tuesday’s 3-1 win over Mwadui FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Goals from skipper Ibrahim Ajib, Amis Tambwe and a stunner from Feisal Salum gave Yanga the deserved tangible results from home territory and a good start to the New Year. Ajib, who was given the captain armband recently by Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera after the former bearer Kelvin Yondani, was stripped off for allegedly reporting late to training session, played a key role towards his side’s triumph on the day through leading his teammates by example. He scored the first goal and orchestrated the other two goals netted by Tambwe and Salum respectively. The victory pushed Yanga further at the summit of the pile with 53 points from 19 matches, while at the same time enjoying unbeaten run of the season. Yanga sit massive 12 points above second placed Azam with 41 points. However, Azam have played 18 matches compared to Yanga, who have played 19 matches. It means a win for Yanga today, will see them opening 15-point lead at the top of the table. However, it will not be a walk in the park for Yanga as Stand United vowed to stun the highflying league leaders. Stand United, Head Coach Amars Niyongabo has said his charges are ready for the battle and determined to bring to an end Yanga’s unbeaten run. Niyongabo said they respect Yanga and is aware that Zahera lads are in form of their own at the moment but he insisted that Stand United do not fear them. In the first round match held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Yanga won 4-3. Defending champions Simba, who have only played 14 matches, dropped to fourth on the log with 33 points, following KMC’s 5-2 win over Coastal Union of Tanga at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. KMC have hauled 34 points from 22 matches. The Msimbazi Reds are sidelined from the top flight assignment as they compete in the CAF Champions League group stage campaign.