THE government has swiftly acted against individuals clandestinely engaged in the purchase of cashew nuts, closing 131 bank accounts. Agriculture Minister Japhet Hasunga revealed here yesterday that the government took the bold measures after proving beyond reasonable doubts that the accounts’ owners were dealing in the crop purchase outside the Warehouse Receipt System. He said as the purchase of the cashew nuts continues in the southern regions, it has come to the government attention that some individuals have been using middlemen—Kangomba—in the business. “People whose bank accounts have been closed were violating the law because they didn’t pay tax and were exploiting farmers. We have also frozen bank accounts of businesspeople who had been using middlemen…these are economic saboteurs,” Minister Hasunga insisted. According to the minister, until December 31, 2018, a total of 197,132.9 tonnes of cashew nuts had been purchased and stored in major warehouses. “We have purchased all cashewnuts from the hands of farmers and the consignment is now in the major warehouses. The consignment of cashewnut I refer to does not include cashewnuts stored in cooperative union’s godowns,” he insisted. The minister explained that relevant authorities have been verifying details of farmers before purchasing their produce and effecting payments because their target was to pay farmers, not businesspeople. The minister explained that verification of details of cooperative societies was going on, maintaining that until December 31, last year, 466 out of 504 cooperative unions in Mtwara, Lindi and Ruvuma regions had undergone verification. There are 617 cooperative unions in the country. He said since the government started purchasing the cash crop, about 224bn/- out of the earmarked 242bn/- has been paid to farmers through their bank accounts. He said 9.8bn/- has not reached farmers despite being deposited into their bank accounts due to mismatch in the names used in opening the accounts. “The mismatch in names between the name that appears in the bank and the payee’s ID is one of the problems we are encountering. For example, the name that appears in the bank account is Abdallah Hussein Mwinjuma but the cooperative union asks to pay Abdallah Hussein Abdallah. When this case emerges, the bank officials cannot effect payment,” he said. Mr Hasunga said to avoid the anomalies farmers have always been asked to correct their details to ensure their names match in both sides—bank account and the cooperative unions lists. The minister also said 1,604 bank accounts have been temporarily withheld pending further verification to establish if owners are not middlemen, with 225 of them subjected to intensive scrutiny. He said until December 31 last year, 158,508 farmers had been paid.