TANZANIAN government has formed a team of experts to prepare a syllabus that will be used in teaching Kiswahili in South Africa’s schools. It has also guaranteed supply of Kiswahili teachers as the East African nation strives to promote the language regionally and globally. South African government announced last year that Kiswahili will be introduced as an optional language in schools by 2020. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo (pictured) told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the two governments have communicated over the matter and they were working together to make the plan a great success. He said South African government has already communicated with Tanzania over the plan and currently the three ministries of Education, Science and Technology; Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation; and Information, Culture, Arts and Sports have formed the expert team to work on the syllabus. Dr Akwilapo added that the team of experts will also collaborate with their South African counterparts on the job. The PS noted that the Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE), which is entrusted with the responsibility of curriculum design, has been instructed to prepare books for Kiswahili students who are non- Kiswahili speakers. “We have our own syllabus for teaching Kiswahili to people who speak the language but the team will prepare the special syllabus for people who do not speak Kiswahili,” Dr Akwilapo noted. He added that the experts were also cooperating with University of Dar es Salaam’s Institute of Kiswahili Studies— TATAKI—and the National Kiswahili Council, BAKITA, assuring that that the country has enough Kiswahili teachers. South Africa has identified 90 schools across the country for Kiswahili teaching on a trial basis. According to Tanzania’s High Commissioner to South Africa Sylvester Ambokile, the teaching of Kiswahili in the southern African country will start next year, with announcement of vacancies for teachers. He said, “I have written to the Ministry of Education in Tanzania and other relevant authorities, informing them about the latest development.” “Since the South African Minister for Basic Education announced the move to introduce Kiswahili as the subject, we have been receiving several phone calls from people in Tanzania inquiring on the opportunities to teach the subject,” said Ambassador Ambokile. Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology William Ole Nasha said last year that Tanzania was ready to offer South Africa Kiswahili teachers. He said the Kiswahili Council of Tanzania and the Tanzania Professional Swahili Institute were ready to grab the opportunity because they have enough teachers. Last year, South Africa announced that starting next year, schools will teach Kiswahili as an optional language, making it the first African language outside South Africa to be offered in class. According to Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga, introducing Kiswahili to the education system will go a long way in bringing Africans together. Kiswahili will be the only African language, from across the South African borders, to be offered to their students. The South African education system is also offering their students foreign languages like French, Mandarin and German as alternative subjects. “Kiswahili is one of the most spoken languages in Africa after Arabic and English; and could expand to countries that have never spoken it before and as a result draw Africans closer together,” said Ms Motshekga. She further argued that Kiswahili, being one of the official languages of the African Union, will certainly promote social cohesion between the South Africans and other African nations.