MWINYI Zahera has stripped Kelvin Yondani of the Young Africans captaincy for absconding training. Wayward Yondani lost the armband after failing to report for training session, which commenced yesterday at the Polisi- Kurasini grounds in Dar es Salaam. The captaincy armband has now been passed to playmaker, Ibrahim Ajib ‘Migomba’. Report posted on the club’s official Instagram page yesterday unveiled that coach Zahera, who gave his first squad four-day rest before resuming training in preparation for the league and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) was riled by Yondani’s behaviour. “I gave my players five-day rest and expected all of them will report back as planned today (yesterday) but to our surprise, Yondani is missing and his phone is off….it means he has boycotted. “I cannot tolerate such behaviour(s). He is the captain and he was supposed to lead by example but look what he has done… it is better we take hard decision and strip him of captaincy and today forth Ajib (Ibrahim) will be our new skipper,” Zahera was quoted as saying. This was the second time the Congolese tactician to ‘fall out’ with the experienced central defender, Yondani. Late last year, Yondani boycotted training for what was explained as a move to press the club officials to pay him his salary dues and allowances. Yondani was appointed the team captain early last season after the former skipper; Nadir Haroub Ally hanged his boots. Haroub was appointed to the post of Team Manager. Right wing back, Juma Abdul is the Vice-Captain but he has recently dropped out the pecking order to youthful Paul Godfrey, who is currently preferred in Zahera’s first 11 squad. Zahera also maintained tough decision against the club’s number one goalkeeper, Beno Kakolanya, who also boycotted training, pressing the club leadership to pay his salary dues and 15m/- signing fee. The Congolese coach decided to omit the goalkeeper from his plans since then. Meanwhile, after posting positive result in their Mapinduzi Cup opener, Young Africans have affirmed that they are not looking to reinforcing their current squad which is taking part in the annual tournament, reports Mwinyi Zahera. Yanga’s Team Manager Nadir Haroub said ahead of their tough duel against Azam FC tonight at the Amani Stadium that they will field almost the same team that registered a slim 1-0 victory over KVZ at the same venue on Thursday night. The team which is under the tutelage of Assistant Coach, Noel Mwandila, registered the lone goal through Shaban Mohamed in the 78th minute. The victory took Yanga top of group B with three points ahead of their today’s opponents Azam, who have one point after being held to a 1-1 draw by Jamhuri. Yanga decided not to feature their key players in the ongoing Mapinduzi Cup tournament so as to avoid fatigue to key players, as well as give chance to those who are not regular players in team to show their potentials. Haroub said they believe the team will do well and they do not fear their opponents but respect them all. “We don’t see any reason for reinforcement from Dar es Salaam because the squad we have here can take on their opponents fearlessly. We have faith in our squad and we are going to use the very same players in all our coming games in the tournament,” he said. Azam, who are the tournament’s defending champions, will miss the services of midfielders Salum Abubakar ‘Sure Boy’ and Tafadzwa Kutinyu in today’s game because they are on injury list.