A good transaction of foreign bank borrowing doesn’t always fuel speculative bubbles and over investment, thus frustrating financial stability. In its place, any bank’s loans local or foreign, when careful designed and secured transfer numerous macro-and microeconomic benefits. Capital flows consist of public and private flows. Capital flows are capital transfer made between governments. This can take the form of bilateral flows, such as one government giving aid or lending funds to another, or multilateral flows, such as lending from multilateral institutions like the IMF, the World Bank, Inter-development banks etc. On the other hand, international private flows consists of what can be describes as portfolio investments i.e. purchase of stocks, bonds, derivatives and other financial instruments; foreign bank lending and foreign direct investments i.e. can take two forms: greenfield investments leading to creation of new facility or brownfield investment that might involve purchase of existing assets of existing domestic firms. Looking at our economies, the resources provided by foreign bank loans supplement the pool of capital that is made available by domestic lenders and savers. Foreign bank thus, offer the opportunity for levels of investment and economic growth that are higher than would otherwise be possible in the absence of this resources. Criticisers will always argue that a country or a given business is borrowing too much and that might have negative impact especially on repayment. What I would like to argue is that there are other developmental benefits associated with foreign bank borrowing when done prudentially at national interest. Foreign banks often extend credit capital cost at lower cost to borrowers than domestic banks. These lower capital costs may translate into higher levels of investment and growth. The competition between foreign and domestic banks may force the latter to offer loans at lower rates and more generally rise to the efficiency and service standards of their foreign competitors. Domestic consumers and firms thereby benefits from the competition between foreign and domestic banks. Furthermore, foreign bank borrowing also acts as a disciplining device on borrowing rewards governments and penalizes them for making poor choices i.e. through the withdrawal of loans or the increase in interest rates. Thus, to those critical on foreign loans, need to be aware that foreign bank borrowing reinforces the necessity for appropriate economic and other policy reforms. On the micro-level, the performance of domestic firms is enhanced by their relationship with foreign lenders. Domestic firms that borrow from foreign lenders by principle must meet the stringent standards for creditworthiness and management competence that foreign banks impose on borrowers. This mean that by encouraging an upward harmonisation of operating and management practices, foreign banks borrowing enhances economic efficiency for the firms in developing nations. But benefits don’t happen automatically. In fact, the capital made available by foreign banks or from local banks will only promote productive investment and economic growth if these funds are allocated appropriately in the development sense. To some degree, this has generally not been the case. Many developing countries, private borrowers use bank loans to finance all manner of what can be termed as unproductive or wasteful undertakings or even financing investment in sectors where there is substantial overcapacity. For instance, in the years leading up to the Asian financial crisis, foreign loans funded a good deal of overinvestment e.g. in the production of automobile and electronics. It is important to note that excess capacity, which is the outcome of overinvestment places downward pressure on prices and this, might affect export earnings. What follows could be a subject of debate, but in the absence of government measures that influences the allocation of loan proceeds, there is no reasons to expect that foreign loans will finance investment projects of highest developmental or social value. It hardly matters if such loans complement the scant volume of domestic loans if these loans are used for developmentally unproductive purposes. In this context, neoliberals areclear spot-onin their claim that foreign loans are often cheaper than loans extended by domestic lenders. But the lower cost of foreign lending is of dubious developmentalbenefits ifthese make use of these funds for unproductive purposes more attractive, which is regularly does. Foreign loans are also associated with the introduction and or aggravation of problem of maturity and locational mismatch. Mismatch can be a tall order for borrowers. For sake of clarity, maturity mismatch refers to the situation wherein long-term investments are financed with short-term loans. In any circumstances, this makes borrowers vulnerable to changes in the price and availability of short-term credit whenever they seek renewed financing. This should be a cautionary for development financial institutions in their quest to loan to development related projects. It is very vital to be aware that foreign banks often offer short-term credits at a very attractive prices, sometimes that credit-constrained borrower find strategic. But severe financial difficulties are generated later when local borrowers unearth it difficult or costly to roll over their short-term debt for new debt. While meeting maturity mismatch, locational mismatch simply referred to a situation wherein debts must be paid in a currency other than the borrowers own national currency can make it hard to meet repayment obligation. Given vast majority of foreign loans must be repaid in hard currencies, such repayment condition renders borrowers in susceptible to depreciations of their currency since it raises the cost of debt service. At whatever case, borrowing funds, especially from foreign banks has to take into account seriously issues maturity and locational mismatch. Learning from experience is the best teacher.Financial predicament in Argentina during 2001-2002, in East Asia during 1997-1998 and in Mexico was caused by these two elements. I would suggest what is more important is that, borrowing large sum of funds may be good but failure to meet repayment obligations resulting into a sudden withdraw of such funds by the lender can trigger or exacerbate financial uncertainty.