ILBORU Secondary School student’s passion to save the lives of hundreds of Tanzanians dying of heart diseases pushed him to pursue subjects that will in the future enable him to be a cardiologist. Hope Mwaibanje (pictured), the overall best student in this year’s Form Four National Examination results in Arusha Region yesterday spoke to the ‘Daily News’ after the news on his success broke out. In a telephone interview he said he would go for the combination of Physics, Chemistry and Biology (PCB) in the Advanced Level (A-Level) secondary education so that he realises his dream of being specialist in heart diseases. “I want to be a cardiologist after learning there are fewer specialists in the country, while the number of patients suffering from heart diseases is increasing,” he noted. Highlighting the secrets behind his outstanding performance in the national examinations he said “teachers were closely monitoring the academic development of all students.” “Failing in exams was rather a catalyst than a discouragement…I have been always investing all my energy in correcting my mistakes,” he said. Although he comes from a poor family background, Hope is determined to succeed in his life and bring joy to his parents. “My parents are poor farmers. This didn’t discourage me to work hard as many peers of mine came from well-off families and they joined Ilboru Secondary School from English Medium Primary schools,” he explained. Ilboru Secondary School Headmaster, Denis Otieno also had an interview with the ‘Daily News’ after his school out shined others in having the best student. “Teachers’ hard working and teamwork spirit is what I can say is behind this success,” Mr Otieno remarked. He said that was what made them prepare students for the final exams. “It included finishing teaching students all syllabuses needed earlier than the normal schedule to give them room for revision before the exams.” After covering all topics, he said, the teachers introduced a series of weekly tests to prepare and make them self-confident in answering exam questions. Mr Otieno further explained that other factors included government efforts to maintain school infrastructure, including classrooms. “All this created an enabling learning environment. It was more encouraging for teachers and management to see Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Selemani Jafo visiting the school and discuss issues facing the school,” he said.