STATE University of Zanzibar (SUZA) and Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) students have invented anti-queue technology that will soon be used by hospitals and banks.The invention is a product of a two-week workshop of scholars and students from the US-based Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and their Tanzanian counterparts. The American students, in the past two weeks were in the country to equip their Tanzanian counterparts with knowledge and skills in areas of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) for development, human-centred design and digital media. The DIT hosted workshop also aimed at equipping trainees with creative and entrepreneurial mindsets that can prepare them for self-employment and support the government’s industrialisation drive. Speaking on the newly invented technology, DIT Head of ICT Department Dr Joseph Matiko said that through their mobile phones, patients and bank clients will have to check up the queue status before going to the hospital or bank. “The aim is to control overcrowding at hospitals and banks…we will soon introduce our technology to telephone companies for each to provide special phone numbers to deal with the service needed,” said Dr Matiko, adding that for hospital services, patients will have to select the hospital and ask if there are doctors for his/ her problem. The patients will also be the link of farm products. The technology enables farmers to have direct access to the markets as well as knowing the prevailing prices for their produce. The tourism sector also benefited from the workshop, with students devising a system to access tourism information, showing all available tourist attractions in the country, availability of tour-guides as well as costs of visiting the attractions. SUZA ICT Director Dr Abubakar Bakar said students further created various service access technologies like laundry, electricity and water, among others. One will have all information on the needed services through the mobile phone and then call for service providers. In aiding public opinions to reach decision makers in various institutions, the students introduced the system that will send the aired opinions to everybody in the targeted office. The technology seeks to replace the current suggestions boxes, which are seemingly less effective, according to Dr Bakar. One of the inventors, DIT Second-Year Student Anapendaeli Msangi appreciated the practical oriented studies, which she admitted can quickly solve problems in the society. “We still need help from this kind of trainers who have advanced in ICT areas…if we managed to develop over five new systems within only two weeks of the workshop, you can imagine the kind of products we could develop by having these experts for at least six months,” she said. MIT Senior Lecturer Professor Lisa Parks commended the work done, saying if empowered, Tanzanian students were smart and capable of supporting the country to achieve the industrialisation goal. She said though Tanzanian students have access to computer science curriculum, the demands of the curriculum leave little time to think analytically or entrepreneurially about the socioeconomic impacts and development potentials of information technologies. “It is very interesting to see that my team has attained all the goals it set before we came here for the workshop. Tanzanian students are smart and versatile…their creative work will really solve many problems in the society, and that is our main goal,” she said