The difference between ‘Teachers’ and ‘Educators’ is arguably greater than the Grand Canyon. Located in the Arizona State of the US, the Grand Canyon is a steep-sided 277 miles (446km) long gulch that’s up to 18 miles (29km) wide and over a mile deep in places (6,093 feet or 1,857 meters). So, when I say that the difference between mere Teachers and bona fide Educators is canyon-like, I hope my esteemed readers readily get the Big Picture... Let me illustrate by a living example, considered a joke elsewhere. There’s this Secondary School for girls beginning to mature. For the sake of argument, let’s call it the ‘Lipstick Secondary School.’ In due course of time and events, the young girls learn about lipstick from the ubiquitous, hydra-headed modern-day monster, the Internet. This is a global computer system of interconnected networks using standardized communication protocols to provide assorted information and communication facilities... ...And a ‘lipstick’ is a coloured substance in the form of paste set in a stick-like casing, and which the female of the human species applies to the lips as a cosmetic. So, the Lipstick Secondary Schoolgirls innocently enough start putting on lipstick– the way they see the Rihannas, the Kardashians and other Bintis of the world do. During break in classes, the girls would scamper off to the washrooms, clumsily apply lipstick to themselves– and then press their lips on the wall mirror in the vain hope of leaving their mark in the place. It didn’t take long before the school teachers got wind of what was going on in the Ladies’ washroom. No doubt it was the Cleaners who complained to the Administration on having to scrub clean day in, day out mirrors that were a-glow with lipstick artistry in different shapes and sizes. In the event, teacher after teacher admonished the girl students about the infamy of virtually smooching the toilet wall mirror with their lipsticked mouth-ends. ‘It’s bad manners; it’s unladylike; it’s not a good thing,’ et cetera, et cetera, the teachers cajoled, wheedled, coaxed, seduced, sweet-talked and invoked everything else in the Book on Suasion and Persuasion. All that was in efforts to get the girls to stop ‘smooching’ the mirrors with their painted lips. Needless to belabor the point here, all the teachers’ efforts to get the girls to cease and desist from indulging in their ill-practice/malpractice was a total failure: a resounding exercise in futility... Holy Moses! But, by Gadzooks; all was not quite lost. This was thanks especially to the dramatic arrival on the scene of a virtual savior in shining armour, riding a richly-caparisoned black stallion. This was none other than a bona fide, 24-caratEducator – as distinct from a mere, common-garden, run-of-the mill Teacher... After studying the scenario in coolheaded calmness, the Educator took the Cleaner aside for a person-to-person, one-on-one chat to strategize a solution to the seemingly endless conundrum. Next, the Educator organized for all the girls to turn up in the Ladies washroom to watch for themselves how the cleaning was routinely – as they were told: ‘routinely done!’ Come the psychological moment – and the girls watched in stultifying horror and utter dismay as the Cleaner-of-the-Day generously dipped the squeegee in the toilet bowl, roiled the bowl’s contents, then used the messy mess to repeatedly wipe the mirror on the wall that was covered from edge to edge with the students’ lipstick marks! The girls were gobsmacked, to say the least... They were utterly astounded that the mirror which they had so lavishly kissed with their lips which had been freshly painted with expensive cosmetics was ‘routinely cleaned’ using ‘water’ from the toilet bowls into which... Mamma mia! They screeched in surprise, fear, pain, exasperation – and rushed pell-mell out of the washroom, wailing. Needless to belabor the point here, this became the end of that silly, senseless habit of the girls seeking to leave their be-lipsticked impressions upon the washroom mirror. Talk of bona fide Educators! Speaking of Teachers and Educators... In My Book of Things– for what it’s worth– the former are usually pedantic instructors who are obsessively motivated by them is guided desire to record the greatest numbers of pupils who pass their exams by regurgitating, parrot-like, what they crammed from their pedagogist, dogmatic teachers. On the other hand, a 24-carat Educator imparts enlightenment which amounts to edification: the moral or intellectual instruction or improvement of someone... And, at the end of it all, the results are as clear as they are truly effective on the ground. After all, we saw how the Lipstick Secondary School girls learned in a single melodramatic lesson why they shouldn’t be messing up the washroom mirror with their lipsticked kissers... Cheers!