TANZANIA has now focused on the team level title of the East African Zonal tennis Championship that starts today at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club courts. Tanzania was knocked out at the semi final stage by Kenya in both U-14 and U-16 singles. The national l tennis coach Waziri Rajab assured Tanzanians in Dar es Salaam yesterday by promising brilliant performances from both boys and girls’ teams. The tournament will be played in round robin format that will involve all participating teams with the exception of Sudan. “My players used the singles matches to gain more experience and have all promised to work hard and win their games to earn their country the regional tennis title,” said the coach. Explaining on his players’ performance, Waziri said most of them, with exception of Kanuti Alangwa and Esther Nakulanga, were making their maiden entry to the tournament. “They are young and inexperienced as most of them were competing in the zonal tournament for the first time,” he disclosed. He said Alangwa and Nankulanga have been competing in the regional and continental level events for quite a long time and their experience helped them to semis stage. Alangwa failed to reach the final stage of the Zonal Junior Tennis Championship after losing to Derick Aminde of Kenya in the fiercely contested semi final while Nakulanga was eliminated by Kenyan Alicia Owegi by two straight sets in the quarter final stage. Ahead of the team level competitions, the zonal tennis championship coordinator, Patrick Kamuhia said the tournament will be played in Under- 14 and Under-16 categories for both girls and boys disciplines. He added the tournament will be played in a formal almost similar to the Davis Cup and winner found on point counting. “Three best players will represent a country basing on seed superiority,” he explained. The teams participating in this year’s tournament are Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia and Tanzania while Comoro, Kenya, Rwanda, Seychelles and Tanzania will also compete for the Boys’ U-14 category title.