The Agricultural Marketing Co-operative Societies (AMCOS) has pleaded for sufficient funds from the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) to make timely initial payment to farmers. Kagera Co-operative Union (KCU) Sales Manager, Mr Josephat Sylvand said here that there has been a budget challenge allocated by AMCOS to clear coffee consignments. He said as coffee production for the 2018/19 is high there have been delays in paying farmers their money on time. “The government intention is to strengthen cooperative societies so that coffee producers benefit from the cash crop, so we ask the TADB to provide loans to AMCOS timely in order to pay farmers initial payment,” he said. He added, “For farmers not continue to claim us AMCOS, we were asking for TADB, to give us enough money so that we could pay our farmers timely and we would not want to see we are delaying their money over a month,” he said. Mr Sylvand added that in 2018/2019 coffee collection has been considered to be the largest in the cooperative societies since have been able to collect a lot of coffee for more than 15 years ago. “KCU is accustomed to collect 2,000 to 2,500 tonnes over the past seven years, but at present we have reached a collection of 15,000 tonnes, where Karagwe District Cooperative Union (KDCU) for this year has collected 40,000 tonnes of coffee which is very productive,” he said. He explained that the challenges they encountered with the cooperatives parties finalized their estimated collection of the year a little tonnes compared with what they got in 2018/19 harvesting. AMCOS manager in Kilimanjaro region, Mr Gabriel Ullomi, said the government’s decision to eliminate private buyers has contributed to the existence of a large coffee collection on cooperatives. Mr Ullomi said, “after the removal of private buyers from the coffee collection at farmers level being cooperative societies through the primary associations has greatly helped farmers to be committed to their cultivation.” Mr Ullomi has asked the government through the Coffee Board to seek ways to stimulate the development of the cooperative, especially for cooperative parties be back to the markets. “In the 80’s, Tanzanian companies participating in auctions were so many in the meantime remained fewer that will reduce competitive challenges at auction,” said Mr Ullom.