ABOUT 39 members and lecturers from the National Defence College (NDC) have embarked on a countrywide field tour through which they will learn about how regions implement different social, political and economic programmes and prepare reports for action. Speaking to reporters about the tour, NDC Commandant, Lt-Gen Paul Massao, said college members were conducting the field trip as part of their studies on security and strategies, which included, among other things, social and economic aspects of the country. He said the weeklong tour had brought about 10 members in the Lake Zone, where they would receive special presentations from regional commissioners on economic, social and political activities taking place in their respective regions. “We have a team of 39 college members, who during their field study tour, will compare what they learn, what is taking place and compile reports for action by both the government and college,” he said. Lt-Gen Massao said NDC had advanced so rapidly since its inception and so far it had attracted over 10 members from Kenya, Mozambique, Rwanda, Burundi, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Liberia, China and Egypt. He said the college would keep on producing and polishing high profile top leaders in some strategic positions as they were well-vested in defence, security and political administration, among other areas. Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC), John Mongela earlier presented a social and economic outlook of the region, saying it was the second largest contributor to the national gross domestic product (GDP). Mr Mongela, who is also an alumnus of NDC, was optimistic about Mwanza Region. He said the region was making great strides by taking advantage of various economic developments such as the rapidly growing Kirumba International Fish Market and Mwanza Airport. “We have started utilising the expansion of the airport and now we are able to export beef and other products directly to foreign markets, particularly the Middle East,” he said. The RC, however, was concerned about the standard of the first consignments for exports, but was of the view that the progress was steadily improving. He also noted that there was an upward trend in urbanisation, growing population and equal sharing of natural resources.