THE government plans introducing at least two cargo planes to facilitate the country’s export business. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe said here on Tuesday that the decision is based on evidence of sharp increase in cargoes, especially fish fillets from the Lake Zone. The minister was on an official tour of at least four fish processing industries here where he discovered massive increase of fish production, with exporters compelled to long routes to transport their consignments. They use Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi-Kenya and Entebbe International Airport in Uganda. “We have now decided to utilise fully the services of our vibrant Air Tanzania Corporation and in the same spirit we want to handle all cargoes right from Mwanza and uplift them directly to the markets,” he noted. Nile Perch Fisheries Limited General Manager Ruperb Mohan, briefing the minister, said the factory with installed capacity of 80 tonnes daily can now process 60 tonnes a day up from 20 tonnes some 20 years ago and was determined for a full-fledged production. During the tour, Engineer Kamwelwe heard that overall, Mwanza-based fish industries were able to process over 200 tonnes of fish for exports though the maximum production can reach over 500 tonnes daily, thanks to intensified war against illegal fishing. The minister said with such production the government can lease at least two cargo planes in collaboration with potential private investors. “We are going to involve the private partners in securing investors in the cargo business and I would like to challenge the business partners to take full advantages of ATCL services instead of going for expensive alternative routes. I’m glad that five fish processing industries have agreed to use ATCL in exporting their products,” remarked the minister. Besides fish exports, the minister said the state was also exploring direct export of beef and horticultural products, promising to make another working tour to get the true picture on the state of beef and horticultural production. He noted that all was set for Mwanza Cargo Terminal, which will house, among others, 11 cold rooms, conveyor belts and other modern equipment for modern handling of particularly perishable cargoes. Tanzania Airport Authority (TAA) Director General Richard Mayongela announced massive revolution in the cargo handling system, saying the government will review the current modus operandi. He said the government has decided to review its partnership with private cargo handlers in all major airports, including Mwanza for realisation of mutual benefits. “We are set to hold sessions with the current operators, business community and treasury on this ambitious arrangement to be ready for implementation in the next fiscal year,” he revealed.