FEDERATION of German Industries (BDI) has injected 1bn/- into the East African Community (EAC) in support of the region’s private sector. BDI’s funding, which has been channeled through the East African Business Council (EABC), aims at empowering the private sector within the EAC to realise economic integration, according to a statement that the EABC released here yesterday. “This partnership will strengthen implementation of deeper economic integration on a regional and national level. The technical and financial supports of over 387,000 Euros will strengthen EABC advocacy efforts to represent the interest of the private sector in the EAC integration process,’’ reads the statement by the apex body of private sector associations and corporates from the six EAC partner states. According to the EABC, the partnership will also strengthen the council’s collaboration with its National Focal Points, support dialogues with the EAC and increase visibility and reputation of the EABC. Currently, each of the six partner states has developed a Private Sector Development Strategy. At the regional level, there is a Consultative Dialogue Framework for engagement of the private sector in the integration process. The EABC was established in 1997 to foster the interests of the private sector in the integration process of the EAC. As the representative of the private sector associations in the region, the EABC was granted observer status in organs and activities of the EAC. The apex body participates to various sectoral meetings, including meetings of the Coordination Committee, the EAC Council of Ministers, and the Summit of the EAC Heads of State; with a view to ensure that the agenda of the private sector is well articulated and received by the policymakers. Its objectives include the promotion and maintenance of a single market and investment area in East Africa and maintenance of institutionalised interaction with the EAC and its partner states. The EABC has a large membership in the region in various sectors including manufacturing, ICT, tourism, banking and media among others.