SIMBA claimed the third place of SportPesa Cup tournament after defeating Mbao FC 5-3 on post-match penalties at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Simba finished third behind Bandari and the tournament’s winners; Kariobangi Sharks. The normal period of the tense game elapsed goalless hence penalties had to be played to separate the two sides and decide the third winner of the prestigious contest. Simba converted all their five spot-kicks through Emmanuel Okwi, Nicholas Gyan, Pascal Wawa, Deogrutas Munishi and Clatous Chama while for Mbao, on target were Said Said, Babilas Chitembe and Vicent Philipo whereas Rajesh Kotecha’s shot went over the cross bar. The victory has given Simba a confidence as they head to Egypt to face Al Ahly in their third CAF Champions League group stage clash set on February 2nd this year with the return leg to be played in Dar es Salaam a week later. Simba lost their previous match of the biggest continental competition following a disappointing 5-0 defeat from DR Congo’s AS Vita. It was a tight encounter for both teams which knows each other better but Simba enjoyed the Lion’s share as they were able to create many scoring chances of which they failed to turn them into goals. Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems deployed Meddie Kagere and Namibian striker Sadney Urikhob in the first half before the former was substituted at half time for Emmanuel Okwi whose presence upfront brought some changes to the Msimbazi street side. The Ugandan striker had half scoring chances in early minutes after coming on but could not manage to beat Mbao goalkeeper Metacha Mnata who succeeded to rescue his team from ruthless Simba strikers on several occasions. Again, Simba relied much on short passes and had a good dominance of the midfield terrain which was expertly guided by versatile player Jonas Mkude who played the entire game despite missing the semi-final battle against Bandari FC which ended 2-1 in favour of the Kenyan side. On the other hand, Mbao used much long balls to enter into Simba territory but were not clinical enough at the goal mouth despite creating a number of scoring opportunities especially in the first half. In the 65th minute, Aussems called to bench Shiza Kichuya for Mohammed Hussein while in the 70th minute, Mohammed Ibrahim was sacrificed for Clatous Chama in a deliberate tactical move to increase midfield supremacy of which they succeeded and they were also able to pressure Mbao defence but credit to their goalie Mnata who is on loan to Mbao from Azam FC. Also, the Belgian tactician substituted Hassan Dilunga who paved way for Nicholas Gyan in the 79th minute as time was running out for Simba to make the best from the duel. Moreover, Aussems used another new defender from Ghana Lamine Moro who is available on free transfer after leaving the Zambian team Buildcon FC before he was substituted at half-time for James Kotei. Both Moro together with his Namibian counterpart Urikhob were used in all three matches for Simba in the competition as one way to asses their abilities prior to CAF Champions League assignments. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks emerged the winners of this year’s Super Cup tournament after defeating Bandari of Mombasa 1-0 in the final match at the National Stadium. Sharks netted the winner through Mwendwa Harrison in the 61st minute.