YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera has admitted that problems facing the club helped the club to reorganise and work hard towards implementing their objectives. Speaking at a press conference yesterday in Dar es Salaam, Zahera said he was delighted to see the financial problems his club is facing helped to build players confidence and solidarity that in turn made the team enjoy success contrary to what many people could think that such bottlenecks might lead to the poor performance. “Prior to the commencement of the league, I told the players to put their focus on one objective and make sure that they are always thriving to accomplish it,” said Zahera. He added that the positive results they are recording in various competitive games do not come by chance but rather they are generated in accordance to their initial target. “We have one more game to play against Azam FC before closing the first league chapter of which regardless of the final results, we will still be occupying the top spot at the table and many people never thought that we could reach this far,” he said. Commenting on the Mapinduzi Cup tournament set to begin tomorrow, Zahera said he will send the team capable to lift the trophy. “When you have been given options to select one thing, you always choose what you think can give you the big reward. There are many competitions we have to play but as the club, we have focused on what we think would give us the big thing we deserve,” revealed Zahera. He continued: “We are neither good coaches nor a good team than the others in the league but we have a unique factor which has pulled us together and aim for one challenge.” Explaining further, Zahera lauded the cordial relationship he enjoys with the club management saying that also has contributed much to their impressive form throughout the first round of the league season. “Some people were circulating rumours that I do not receive good cooperation from the club leaders which is not true and I talk with everybody without any problems. In other words, everything is progressing well within the team,” insisted Zahera. Additionally, the coach thanked Y anga supporters countrywide for their support they direct to the team in all the league matches. “I have travelled in many countries in Africa but I have never seen the awesome support from Tanzanians. Wherever we go to play, they turn up in their big numbers and give us the backup we need to win matches. I am grateful to that,” said him. Moreover, the Congolese coach hailed his staff members and players for doing everything possible to make the team stand tall in spite of financial difficulties they go through. “When I am around or not, my colleagues always perform their duties professionally something we should all be proud of,” he said. Speaking at the same conference, former Yanga midfielder Sunday Manara said he was sent by the club’s ex- players to extend their praise to coach Zahera for his loyalty to the team despite going through hard times. “Y anga has had more coaches before but Zahera has shown that he has passion to drive the team further something we as former players have seen it necessary to say ‘ thank you’ to him,” Manara said.