OPPOSITION Member of Parliament for Kawe Constituency Halima Mdee yesterday appeared before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee for questioning in relation to her claims that allegedly undermined the Parliament. Ms Mdee found herself being grilled by the Parliamentary Committee for more than two hours yesterday after she supported a statement made by the Controller and Auditor General( CAG), Prof Mussa Assad while in the United States early this month. As usual, the Committee Chairman, who doubles as Tabora Urban (CCM) , Emmanuel Mwakasaka, briefly allowed reporters to enter the conference room for a photo taking session and told to leave thereafter. Parliamentary rules hinder media presence on such occasions. The session to grill the opposition legislator commenced shortly after 11 am and ended at around 13: 30 hours after which the Committee Chairman Mr Mwakasaka delivered a brief statement: “We are still working on the matter.”. Although the questioning session was held yesterday, the Committee remains with the task of going through and analysing all the details that unfolded in the meeting before compiling a report to be handed over to the Speaker of Parliament, Mr Job Ndugai, for further decisions. Like Prof Mussa Assad, Ms Mdee, who arrived at the premises in the company of Bunda Urban legislator Ester Bulaya, carrying documents that were obviously meant to serve as sources of reference during the questioning. Prof Assad, who appeared before the committee on Monday, as well as Ms Mdee, will now await the final decision by the Parliament. Speaker Ndugai was, on January 8 this year, prompted to issue an order for the CAG and the Kawe MP to appear before the Committee, triggering summonses to the two high profile individuals from the Clerk to the National Assembly. Under Parliamentary rules, the Speaker has powers to summon any individual to appear before the committee for questioning on any matter (s) related to the immunities, powers and privileges of the Parliament. The summons were issued per Section 15 of the Parliamentary Immunities, Powers and Privileges Act, Cap 296 R.E 2015. Last Saturday, CCM legislators, through their party caucus, hailed the decision made by CAG to heed the Speaker’ call, saying they believed the step would help improve the working relations between the CAG’s office and Parliament.