At the time when most people are still planning what to do this year, some people are implementing what they have been planning right before day one of this year, which Chinese in Beijing, Hong Kong and Macau have dedicated it to members of the pig family, which includes warthog. This is a group, whose members because of poor sight, they depend on their unmatched sense of smell. Most of mammals in the savannah have a poor sense of smell, but they depend on their sharp eyes to locate a prey or run away from a predator. Meanwhile, in simple English, the word sharpest can be defined as a superlative adjective of the word sharp, which means an ability of producing a sadden effect, according to Chinese belief. The lucky colours for 2019 are yellow, red and white, but in the savannah some are capable of differentiating colours, while others see things in black and white. Of all the animals in the savannah, chameleons have a very poor hearing ability, but to locate a grasshopper basking on the Sun in a leaf, to hunt successfully they depend mostly on a powerful sense of smell, which is accomplished by their flexible and sharp eyes. Among a long list of reptiles in the tropical savannah, chameleons have very good eyesight, which enables them to see a small insect crawling on a leaf 5-10 metres away. From one location on a tree branch inside the tropical savannah, the chameleon’s eyes are able to rotate and take perfect pictures of two different locations. This gives them a full 360-degree curve of vision around their bodies as from this point the full message will be sent quickly into the brain for decision-making. As predator of insects, this is a three-dimension picture, which provides full information regarding size, distance and movements of a prey. The chameleon is a reptile, which depends on insects as their primary diet using its sticky, long and elastic tongue. Unlike most of the animals in the savannah, in conjunction with all the above mentioned futures, the hunting activities of chameleons are accomplished successfully through camouflaging techniques, which involve the use of different colours that may help from being noticed by an eagle, which may be flying more than 900 metres or near a cloud level at over 2,000 metres above the ground, but capable of scanning the land bellow. Scientific researches indicate that the eye of an eagle is more than twice as long as a human eye. It has also a visual acuity of 3.0 to 3.6 times that of humans. This ability enables the bird to spot a potential prey from a very long distance. This keen eyesight is primarily attributed to their extremely large pupils, which ensure minimal diffraction or little amount of light is scattered as it is coming into the eye. This is a special mechanism that allows a special amount of light to bend according to the size of wavelength in respect of the size of the bird's eyes. It is said that if the size of the eye is larger than the light's wavelength, then the bending of light will not be noticed by the bird as it is flying for the target. From the sky, eagles have tremendous eyesight, whereas humans see three basic colours, eagles see five. They have five times more light sensitive cells estimated to be about one million per square millimeter of retina than those, which are found in human eyes regardless of their age or sex. Scientists describe the sky as is everything that lays above the surface of the earth, including the atmosphere and outer space, but itself the atmosphere of earth is a layer of gases surrounding the planet earth, which is retained by the earth's gravity. The sky is where flight is borne, a process by which an object moves, through or beyond the sky using buoyancy, which allows movements without direct contact with the ground. Scientifically, flight is considered as the fastest speed on earth, where the magnitude of an object's velocity or the rate of changing its position is high. Flight is made by many objects, including manmade objects such as airplane and spacecraft, but with more than 1,200 different species. It’s the birds, which dominate the sky. Many bird species are capable of travelling a long distance, but scientists say it’s the peregrine falcon, which has the fastest speed on earth. Normally, as if it’s playing or resting, this bird can be seen hovering slowly in the sky above national parks, game reserves and villages, which surround reserved forests. Peregrine falcons do this slow motion, while looking around the sky and on the ground in search of a prey such as small size of birds, mammals and different reptiles. From a long distant position, Peregrine falcons are capable of identifying their prey using big eyes armed with a sharp vision capable of locating a pigeon flying many kilometres away or a mouse trotting on the ground. Falcon's eyes transmit the picture of the intended prey to the brain, which analyses its position, feature and weight, all for a quick decision, which leads to a speedy attack. From this point, a Peregrine falcon will dive high then bust into a top speed of 320 kilometres per hour, which is three times higher than the top speed of Cheetah of Serengeti, Tarangire and Ruaha national parks. Scientists say to protect their eyes, the falcons are equipped with nictating membranes or third eyelids to spread tears and clear debris from their eyes, while moving very fast on air and maintaining a perfect vision. It is also said that Peregrine falcons are capable of reaching a theoretical speed of 400 kilometres per hour on a low altitude flight and 625 kilometres per hour for a high altitude flight. Speed at a high altitude is nothing with sharp eyes. In the savannah, vultures may be seen rotating in the sky at about 1,609km to scan the ground for a meal. At the same time, in the savannah, eland, bushbuck, buffalo, waterbuck and other antelopes die because of age and illness than being killed by predators. Due to a morphological hindrance, it’s very difficult for an older lion incapable of hunting to see a carcass of an antelope laying in the middle of savannah full of bushes, trees and ground with wrinkles. This is like searching for a needle on the floor of a darkroom although everyday there is at least a single dead body of a mammal within an area of about 259 square kilometres. This is an easy task to a vulture, which is equipped with telephoto vision system, which enables them to pinpoint a dead body from the sky even at about 1,609km. The system works in their eyes like a camera, whereby an object is photographed and an image is sent to the brain for scrutiny and action. This ability gives a vulture an upper hand against a ground dwelling scavenger such as a hyena, a jackal and old lions which depend mainly on their noose to sniff. There are some insects, which have super eyes, which work through a unique system. Dragonfly’s eyes are equipped with a selective attention mechanism, which means they are able to skip useless visual info and concentrate on the targeted prey. This account will not be well detailed if the praying mantis is not included. This smart insect has a body, which is divided into three major parts: abdomen, thorax and a very small triangular head equipped with very big and sharp eyes with a visual range of 20 metres due to their 10,000 small eyes on each side, which provide a perfect vision of a wide area through a binocular vision enabled by a black spot on each eye.