YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera has given Simba SC 50 per cent chance of qualifying into the CAF Champions League quarter finals. Simba sailed into the group stages of the continental top tier club competition after posting landslide 8-1 aggregate victory in their preliminary round qualifying matches against Mbabane Swallows of Eswatini and a 4-3 aggregate win over Nkana FC of Zambia in the first round double header clash. The Msimbazi street giants are the only side from the country competing in international games following the exit of Mtibwa Sugar in CAF Confederations Cup late last year. With the available fixture, Simba are set to open their champions’ league group campaign on January 12th this year, when they play host to JS Saoura from Algeria at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Founded in 2008, JS Saoura are yet to win the Algeria Premier League title despite finishing runners-up in three consecutive seasons and currently sit on fourth place with 23 points from 15 games. After taking on the Algerians, Simba would travel to DR Congo to face AS Vita on January 18th in their second group stage battle of the campaign. It will be the war between two defending champions of their domestic leagues. AS Vita who lately occupies second slot of the DR Congo’s Super Ligue with 28 points from 11 encounters won the title last season over their old foes TP Mazembe who finished second. Speaking in Dar es Salaam recently, Z a h e r a said Simba have 50 per cent chance to reach into the best eight teams of the competition as long as they play with focus. “They (Simba) are in tricky group but African football has transformed a lot these days. Y ou sometimes win in impossible games and lose in possible matches. I simply give them 50 per cent to reach into the quarter-finals,” Zahera said. Asked to compare AS Vita with Simba, Zahera said the main difference between these two clubs is team organisation. “I know a lot about AS Vita and its coach is a good friend of mine. Simba will be competing in Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar and trust me, AS Vita will send some of its staff members to see how Simba will be playing in Zanzibar since that is what they normally do when they are competing in big competitions,” Zahera said. However, on several occasion during his press briefing, Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems has been insisting that his main intention would be to do well in home matches taking advantage of vibrant supporters. “I am pretty sure that no team will leave here unwounded if we will be playing in a fully-packed stadium like the way we did against Nkana FC. Fans are very important in football games since their backing means a lot to the players on the pitch,” Aussems once said.