THE new Barrick Gold Corporation says it is now working to end a close to two-year long tax dispute with the Tanzanian government that has effectively paralysed Acacia mining operations, the company’s Chief Executive Officer(CEO), Mark Bristow has said. In March 2017 this year, President John Magufuli announced a temporary ban on exports of metallic mineral concentrates and immediately formed two committees that later recommended a permanent ban on the same, accusing Acacia of illegally operating in the country and evading tax. Following the dispute, the new Barrick, which began trading on Wednesday following its merger with Randgold Resources, holds a 64 per cent stake in Acacia, which has not been able to export gold during the tax row. Mr Bristow expressed confidence that the conflict, which began when the Tanzanian government slapped Acacia with 190 billion US Dollars tax bill in March 2017, would be resolved. “This has been a very complex and challenging situation where no-one has won. It’s untenable and will be resolved,” said Mr Bristow, who previously led Randgold. Under an October 2017 framework pact that has yet to be implemented, Barrick Executive Chair John Thornton and Tanzanian President Dr John Magufuli agreed that Acacia would pay the government 300 million US Dollars and 16 per cent ownership and split the economic benefits of its mines. Barrick said it could buy out the rest of Acacia, or could split up the company, among other options, according to the CEO. “This conflict has destroyed lots of value. We need to make sure there’s enough value to work out a solution that various interested and affected parties get something that’s fair and proper for them,” he said, adding the company would provide more information in the second week of February. Barrick agreed to buy Randgold in September in an all-stock deal valuing the Africa-focused miner at 6.5 billion US Dollars. It was the biggest transaction in years in the gold mining industry, which is under investor pressure to cut costs and better manage capital. Mr Bristow plans to follow Randgold’s strategy of deploying most of its staff at mine sites rather than centralised offices, giving local staff more autonomy as part of a new approach to slash bureaucracy and boost returns in the face of a sagging gold sector. Following the close to two-year long tax dispute, in July 2017 the government initiated talks with Barrick Gold Corporation, the majority shareholder in Acacia Mining, to resolve the dispute and a ban on export of metallic mineral concentrates. The government’s team is led by Constitutional and Legal Affairs Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi.