Do you know who has an undying belief in these powerful words – “to finish first, you have to first finish”? Any guess! May be the referred person could be a renowned sportsperson because it indicates about finishing first – may be in a race. Is that so? Not really! Because this powerful belief indicates to none other than the most successful investor on earth named – Warren Buffet. So what is the integral meaning of this famous quote – “to finish first, you have to first finish”? As is always the case let us try to decipher the hidden meaning by taking a real time example of two different investors named Mr. X and Mr. Y. The story goes as follows: - immediately after their graduation both Mr. X and Mr. Y joined as Junior Executives in a bank. Being working at an entry level position, their monthly salary was meagre but just sufficient enough to lead a moderate life. They both, being in their youth years and thus did not have much responsibility on their shoulders to carry. Both these friends were ambitious in their own sense, as they respectively dreamt of achieving the goal of leading a luxurious life. But their ways or philosophies to achieve their respective goals were quite different. Mr. Xl firmly believed in making consistent savings so as to accumulate or create sufficient wealth leading to fulfilment of his dream. Against this, Mr. Y believed that he needs to scale the promotion ladder fast so that he earns enough to lead a comfortable life and can also save for his rainy days. Despite their current earning being low, Mr. X was able to set aside Tzs. 200,000/- per month, whereas Mr. Y was waiting to become a Manager before he could commence his savings’ pursuit. After two years, the Bank promoted both of them to the post of Assistant Manager and after three more years they were holding the post of Deputy Manager in the same bank. With consistent promotions there was a regular increase in their respective salaries, but also the responsibilities were increasing as by now they both were married. Mr. Y was looking for opportunities to switch his job and finally after working for 2 years as Deputy Manager, he got an opportunity to work with another bank at the post of a Manager. Mr. Y was very happy as he had achieved the break-even point of commencing his savings’ pursuit because now he held the Manager post with a comparatively higher salary than Mr. X. But by now seven long years have passed and can anybody guess as to what could be the quantum of Mr. X’s savings by end of the 7th year. Remember, Mr. X consistently saved a meagre amount of Tzs. 200,000/- p.m. Assume his savings earned interest at the rate of 10% p.a [compounded monthly]. You would be amazed to know that by the end of 7th year; Mr. X’s corpus of saving [i.e. principal + compounded interest] would be equal to an astonishing figure of over Tzs. 24 million. With the same speed the amount at the end of 10th year would be nearing Tzs. 41 million. Is there any way Mr. Y could match or overtake Mr. X, when it comes to the quantum of savings and investment? To me it looks quite difficult because Mr. X is so ahead that the only way for Mr. Y to reach near this amount is by getting a jackpot or lottery. So what was Mr. Y’s fault? To understand his fault we need to go back where we started in the beginning - “to finish first, you have to first finish.” Mr. Y wanted to finish first i.e. ahead of Mr. X by becoming a Manager before him so that he can earn more, but he missed what was needed to be finished first i.e. consistent saving. Although he succeeded in becoming the Manager before Mr. X but he is way behind when they are compared in terms of their respective Savings & Investments. The fundamental principle of auto racing is that, to finish first, you must first finish. This dictum is equally applicable to business, and guides every action at “Berkshire”. Just for your update I may mention that ‘Berkshire Hathaway’ is Mr. Buffett’s company which employs more than 260,000 people. From hereon I am sure you would follow the footsteps of Mr. Warren Buffett by adopting the dictum – to finish first, you have to first finish. Cheers!!