SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems has defended his game plan that enabled every player to showcase his skills saying it has worked perfectly. H e says the players’ rotation system ensures safety of the players.Simba finished third in the just ended SportPesa Super Cup after snatching a 5-3 post-match victory over Mbao FC on Sunday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Kenyan sides Kariobangi Sharks and Bandari FC claimed first and second titles respectively which will see the former hosting English Premier League (EPL) side Everton FC in Kenya on a date to be named later. At a press briefing after the third-winner game, Aussems said he values a lot the safety of his charges hence the only way to protect them is through a rotation. “Our main focus as a team is to do well in CAF Champions League and the Mainland Premier League as such, do not expect me to deploy all my key players in competitions like Mapinduzi Cup and SportPesa Cup because they are not our priority,” Aussems said. He added: “If all the time you use the best team in these small competitions, you kill your players and I do not want to kill my players.” The Belgian national, however, conceded that his charges are able to create more scoring opportunities in a game only that they lack finishing. “Today (Sunday), we could have easily scored five goals against Mbao, but we were not smart enough on the target. The most important thing now is to work on our shortfalls and use them to our advantage,” he said. He went on to say that he was particularly impressed with the mental and psychological attitude of his charges throughout the game and that the final results did not matter to him at all. “We have no new injuries in the team which is healthy for us and this will play a big impact towards our next CAF Champions League clash.” Elaborating more on their upcoming tricky fixture away against Al Ahly on February 2nd, Aussems said he was aware that they will face one of the best teams in Africa as such; all measures have been taken into consideration to post tangible results. “I have seen some of their games and talked with some coaches thereby, I know their strengths and weaknesses of which we will use to disappoint them,” he said. Furthermore, the coach said he has belief in his squad that they will face the Egyptians with winning mentality to get the best results possible. Simba will be required to win their upcoming fixture to get back into the contention and stand a good chance of playing in the competition’s quarter finals after succumbing to a 5-0 defeat against AS Vita from DR Congo during their past game. A win by the Msimbazi street giants would be second for them in the unfolding continental contest following their impressive 3- 0 triumph over JS Saoura at the National Stadium early this month. It was a good start for the Reds in the competition.