IN an effort to improve the Department of Disaster and Emergency Preparedness, Response and Rescue Services, Zanzibar has bought two speed boats with President Ali Mohamed Shein saying his government does not want to see more loss of lives on the sea. Launching the modern boats and other equipment, along with opening of a disaster management centre at Mkoani Sea Port, Pemba, President Shein said that the government has decided to improve the department so that loss of lives and properties, both on land and sea, can be minimised. "We are happy to have the boats and equipment, a crucial step in our bid to ensure rescue services are quick in case of any disaster on the sea," Dr Shein said while launching the boats, which was among events listed to celebrate the 55th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution. It was unclear as to the amount of properties lost and people who die annually in marine disasters, but fishers and other users of the sea estimate that many accidents occur on sea, but are under-reported or end without being reported. In 2011 and 2012 more than one-thousand people died in fatal accidents following the capsizing of MV Spice Islander and MV Skagit. After investigations, the disasters were linked to negligence and violation of marine safety transport regulations. The modern boats and rescue centre is under the management of Coast Guard Unit/Anti-Smuggling Unit (KMKM). Other disaster rescue centres are Kibweni (Headquarters) and Nungwi on Unguja Island. Dr Shein said, "We are committed to ensure all people including visitors and tourists in Zanzibar enjoy their stay. Speed boats are important for sea patrols, while the 'safety city project' deals with improving security including fixing of CCTV cameras in many areas and patrols." According to the Permanent Secretary - Ministry of State (Regional Administration and Special Unit), Ms Radhia Rashid Haroub the cost of the projects is more than 18bn/= which include: construction of rescue centres - 5.9bn/=; diving equipment (500m/=); and purchase of boats 12.5bn/.