HOLDERS Mtibwa Sugar, Young Africans and Azam FC have been given the best possible incentive with relatively easy draw in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) round of 32. In the draw conducted yesterday at the Azam TV headquarters in Tabata, Dar es Salaam, Mtibwa Sugar will face First Division League (FDL) side Songea’s Majimaji FC, while Young Africans will face Mara’s Biashara United. The draw has also paired Azam FC with FDL side Mwanza’s Pamba FC. Apart from conducting fourth and fifth rounds draw, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has also named Lindi region, Ilulu Stadium as the hosts of this year’s ASFC finals. The previous edition’s final was held at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha. The dates for the round of 32 (fourth round) matches will be held from January 25th and 28th 2019 across the different venues in the country, while the round of 16 (fifth round) will be played from February 22nd and 25th 2019. The quarter finals stage will be held from March 27th and 30th 2019. Mtibwa Sugar, who represented the country in CAF Confederation Cup before being eliminated by Uganda’s KCCA FC in the first round, will host Majimaji at their Manungu Complex in Turiani, Morogoro. The 2016 winners Yanga will host Biashara United at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and the winner will progress to last 16 (round five) to face winner of the match between Mighty Elephant versus Namungo FC. Azam will welcome Pamba at their Azam Complex, whereas Kigoma’s FDL side Mashujaa FC, who stunned the 2017 winners and Mainland Premier League defending champions Simba by eliminating them from the tournament by 3-2 goals at the National Stadium, will face another topflight side Mbeya City at the Lake Tanganyika Stadium in Kigoma. Friends Rangers will battle it out with African Lyon, Alliance FC against La Familia, Dodoma FC will face Transit Camp and Cosmo Politan will play against Dar City. Other matches will see Reha FC taking on Boma FC, while Rhino Rangers will confront Stand United. Premier League sides KMC, Kagera Sugar, Lipuli FC and Coastal Union will face Pan Africans, Mbeya Kwanza, Polisi Tanzania and Kitayose respectively, whereas Singida United will host JKT Tanzania at Namfua Stadium in Singida region. According to the fixtures, winner of Yanga SC/Biashara United clash will face Mighty Elephant or Namungo FC, KMC/Pan Africans will battle it with either Mtibwa Sugar or Majimaji and Azam FC/ Pamba SC match winner will face Rhino Rangers or Stand United in the last 16. Winner of the match between Friends Rangers/African Lyon will lock horns with Mashujaa FC or Mbeya City, Alliance FC/La Familia winner will take on winner of Cosmo Politan versus Dar City match. Polisi Tanzania/Lipuli FC winner will confront winner of the match between Dodoma FC versus Transit Camp, Reha FC/Boma FC winner will date winner of the clash pitting Kagera Sugar and Mbeya Kwanza. And, winner of Singida United versus JKT Tanzania match will play against winner of Kitayose/Coastal Union clash. Winners of the ASFC will qualify to represent the country at the CAF Confederation Cup. Mtibwa Sugar are the current cup holders.