THE National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA) yesterday announced Form Two National Assessment results with good news of improving pass mark by 0.36 per cent. Announcing the Standard Four and Form Two examination results, NECTA Executive Secretary, Dr Charles Msonde told reporters yesterday that students recorded poor performance in Basic Mathematics compared to 2017. In the Form Two national assessment results, he said, the pass mark for History, Geography, English language, Physics, Chemistry and Biology increased while poor performance was recorded in Civics, Kiswahili and Basic Mathematics. Moreover, he said, 545,077 students were registered for the National Form Two Examinations that were held between November 12 to 23 last year but only 506,235 sat for the exams. Dr Msonde said 38,842 students registered for the examination did not attempt the examinations for a number of reasons, including sickness and truancy. Of the 506,235 students who sat for the examination only 218,038 passed with Division One, Two and Three levels which is 43.23 per cent. NECTA also nullified results of nine Form Two students from different schools who wrote abusive language in their answer booklets. "We have referred them to their respective school boards for disciplinary measures, which should serve as a lesson to other students," said Dr Msonde. He went on saying that other 38 students had their results nullified as well on cheating grounds, during the national Form Two examinations. Dr Msonde advised students and teachers to use the assessment result as their benchmark for their improved performance in the coming exams. "For students, they must learn where they have failed and take initiative to improve their performance in the respective subjects, while the teachers must be guided by poor performing areas and topic for improved teaching techniques," said Dr Msonde. He added that the council will come up with a critical analysis and subject per subject and topics performance and be distributed to all schools so that they can be used for improved learning and teaching. Speaking on Standard Four assessment said 1,362,642 pupils were registered though 1,302,461 did the exams on November 22 and 23 last year. According to the assessment 93.16 per cent of the pupils acquired A, B, C and D average in the examination and generally the performance is good in all subjects. Dr Msonde said there is increased pass mark for pupils with average of A, B and C by 0.03 compared to 2017 results. He said they nullified results of 151 pupils for cheating while 36,300 pupils did not sit for the exams due to sickness and truancy.