Ruaha National Park plans to introduce affordable monthly trips to the park for Iringa residents and other Tanzanians soon to promote domestic tourism. The Park’s Tourism Officer, Mr Antipus Mgungusi told a group of journalists who visited the Park recently that a recent research revealed that most Tanzanians are unable to visit tourism attractions due to high travelling costs imposed by travelling agencies. “One of the major challenge is lack of transport. Many people cannot afford charges imposed by people with travelling cars and tour operators,” he said. According to Mr Mgungusi, the tour will be organised and conducted once per month and those willing to tour the park will pay a small amount of money to tour the park. “We are currently in the process of organising to start the trips once per month for those willing will pay a small amount to enjoy the trip,” he said. He said once the plan is successful, the management of Ruaha National Park will conduct more trips per month to enable more Tanzanians visit and explore various tourism attractions at the park. He said at the park, local tourists will be able to witness rare experience on various tourism attractions in the park. He called for Tanzanians to develop culture of visiting the park to explore the unique tourism attractions. He said the park offers affordable entry fees of 5900/- and rental fees ranging between 15, 000/- to 20,000/- cost for Tanzanians and other people in East Africa. On the other hand, the Tourism Officer In-charge of Zonal Tourism Office in Iringa Region Mr Tully Kulanga said the number of local tourists visiting Ruaha and other attractions destinations in the Southern Circuit was small. He said introduction of the monthly trips would encourage more people to tour Ruaha National Park, the largest national park in Tanzania Ruaha is believed to have high concentration of elephants than any national park in East Africa. It is also a place where, magnificent mammals like Kudu (both Greater and Lesser), Sable and Roan antelopes can easily be spotted in Miombo woodland. The park is also a habitat for endangered wild dogs. Other animals in the park include lions, leopards, cheetah, giraffes, zebras, elands, impala, bat eared foxes and Jackals.