TWO businessmen appeared before Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam last Friday facing 601 counts, including occasioning 15bn/- loss to the government. Before Principal Resident Magistrate Wilbard Mashauri, Mohamed Yusufali and Arifali Paliwalla were charged with conspiracy, forgery, making false returns, money laundering, tax evasion and subjecting the government to 15bn/- loss. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges, which fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The case was adjourned to January 24, 2019 when it comes for another mention pending further arrangements. Prosecution’s team led by Principal State Attorneys Hashim Ngole and Pendo Makondo, Senior State Attorney Patrick Mwita and State Attorney George Barasa informed the court that investigations into the case nick named “Million Saba kwa Dakika” have been completed. They disclosed that the prosecution was preparing necessary documents to file information or formal charges before the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court, which will conduct the trial. Yusufali, alias Mohamed Mustafa Jamalee, alias Mohamed Mustafa Mohamedali, alias Mohamed Yusufali Jamali, alias Mhamed Y. Jamalee, alias Mohamed Yusufali, alias Mohamedali, alias Choma, alias Jamalii is charged alone with fraudulent evasion of tax. Being a Director concerned with management of affairs of his Farm Plant Limited Company, which is a registered Value Added Tax Payer with a view to fraudulently evade tax, allegedly submitted to the Commissioner General of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) false returns. According to prosecution, the businessman evaded Value Added Tax (VAT) amounting to 14,987,707,044/58. The court heard that the offence was allegedly committed on diverse dates between January 2008 and January 2016 in Dar es Salaam. Within the same period in the city, by reason of their willful acts of making and submitting false tax returns to TRA, the accused allegedly caused the government to suffer pecuniary loss of 14,987,707,044/58, which ought to have been paid as VAT. It is alleged by the prosecution that on diverse dates in Dar es Salaam, knowingly the same businessmen furnished to TRA about 88 false VAT return forms bearing different dates, purporting to show that Farm Plant Limited purchased commodities worth of the said amount, VAT inclusive. At unknown date between January, 2008 and January, 2016 within Dar es Salaam region, Yusufali and Paliwalla allegedly conspired with other persons not in court to commit the offence of fraudulent tax evasion. The accused stand charged that within the same period, they forged about 453 tax invoices of different companies bearing different dates, purporting to show that Farm Plant Ltd purchased from the companies various commodities worth of the said amount, VAT inclusive. According to the charge sheet, the two businessmen face 56 counts of money laundering. It is alleged that on diverse dates in Dar es Salaam, the accused engaged in money laundering through various transactions. For purposes of concealing the illicit origin, the accused are alleged to have transferred, used or deposited the money, in different bank accounts maintained by some individual persons and companies at various banks, notably, the I & M Bank. The prosecution told the court further that while at the time of such transactions the accused knew or ought to have known that the money was proceeds of fraudulent tax evasion, which is a predicate offence.