THE Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) plans to introduce Luku metres to its large power users (LPU) to reduce the number of unsettled bills. So far, the majority of corporate and few small customers owe to Tanesco 267bn/- outstanding bills. This was revealed in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Tanesco LPU Manager, Fredrick Njavike during their meeting with corporate customers, saying the Luku would help the power utility to collect its revenue on time. “There is a special committee working on it and upon completion of the process, the metres will be installed to LPUs as it was done for domestic uses,” he said. He noted that stakeholders would be involved in the entire process as they would be given an opportunity to share their views on the matter. For his part, Tanesco Senior Marketing and Sales Manager, Theodor Bayona said they would continue holding meetings with corporate customers to discuss various challenges. “Through this meeting we get to know the challenges our clients face and how we can address them,” he said. He added that Tanesco with support from the government would continue penetrate more power in a grand plan to meet demand for industrial and domestic use. The current total power generation capacity is 1,560MW, while maximum demand is 1,200MW, making a reserve of 360MW. “The government is implementing other major power generation projects meant to increase power supply to the national grid, including Stiegler’s Gorge Hydroelectric Power Generation Station that will produce 21,00MW and Kinyerezi One extension,” said Mr Bayona. He went on to explain that all Tanesco’s successes had been contributed by the government and the public-private partnership (PPP). Speaking at the event, some of the corporate clients asked Tanesco to continue improving power supply services. “They have improved a lot compared to the past, but they have to make more efforts to end power fluctuations,” said Mr Rajat Bhatnagar, who is Deputy General Manager of A-One Products and Bottlers Limited.