WE’VE all done it: Made resolutions to work out regularly, to stick to a budget, to eat better. Those are all great goals. And they can pay off if we stick to them. But the thing about strict resolutions is that when we break them, it can feel like we’ve failed, and it becomes easy to ditch them altogether. Too often, days at a time can go by with the conversations we have with our friends, family members and co-workers going no deeper than surface-level chit-chat. Though there’s nothing wrong with joking around, theorising about the latest episode of Sultan or strategising about fantasy football, if we’re not intentional about regularly engaging in deeper conversations—that challenge us intellectually, spiritually and socially—too often, those types of talks can become increasingly rare. Last year, close to 40 per cent of Tanzanians made financial New Year’s resolutions, according to a street survey. Studies show that those who make resolutions are more likely to accomplish their goals than those who don’t, so now’s a great time to come up with a few resolutions of your own. Making New Year’s resolutions and staying committed to them can be a challenging thing for a lot of people. And even though I think it’s important to have a vision, a clear direction or goal before starting the New Year, all these New Year’s resolution lists can create a lot of stress and anxiety in people, causing them to feel disappointed when things don’t go as planned. In the social media era, where everyone’s opinion gets a platform, it’s all too easy to fall into the trap of getting angry at our friends over things they say that we don’t agree with. Unfortunately, many times, that same mindset of taking offense at dumb stuff people say or do creeps into real-world relationships, the Church and workplaces. The thing is, most of the time, outrage is overrated. In 2019, commit to be offended less and reserving your anger for issues that really matter. This New Year’s, let’s resolve to think about how to make our lives better, not just once a year, but every day. Resolve to set goals, not just in one or two aspects of our lives, but in every important aspect and in our lives as a whole. Resolve to pursue the goals that will make us successful and happy, not as the exception in a life of passivity, but as the rule that becomes second-nature. If we do this, we will be resolving to do the most important thing of all: to take our happiness seriously. Happy New Year!