AS the New Year ushers in today, Dodoma City Director Godwin Kunambi has declared the 2019 as the year for increased revenue collection and self-sufficient city that relies on its own revenue sources. Speaking to reporters here yesterday on the city’s 2019 projections, Mr Kunambi said the city administration intends to have the central government funds catering for salaries only as the newly upgraded city revenues financing the development projects. He said they have started footing electricity, water and security bills for public schools as they want to meet as well the staff allowances, leaving the central government paying for salaries only. “We have to change our mindset and commitment…patriotism will enable us all to meet our plans,” said Mr Kunambi He said when appointed the Dodoma Municipal Executive Director in July 2016, the revenue collection was 12.7bn/- annually, saying positive thinking and team work have raised the amount to 26bn/-, with 13.5bn/- channeled to development projects. “Our 2018/19 budget is 68bn/- from our own sources and as we approach half of the financial year, we have collected 37bn/- and I believe we will meet the target,” he said. He further said 200bn/- has been released by Tanzania Airports Authority for construction of an international airport, with a nine-kilometre runway at Msalato area. Mr Kunambi commended President John Magufuli for his commitment to ensure that Dodoma matches both the City and designated Capital status in all avenues needed. He said that the main bus stand expected to be of its kind in Africa is being constructed at Nzuguni area and will be completed by September this year, whereas the job done at present is 33 per cent. On water services, the City Director said there are number of projects going on to ensure the city has the needed reserve to cater for the increasing population. The city, he said, has surveyed over 42,000 plots in a number of areas and plans are underway to turn Hombolo dam into a beach, which will be flocked over the weekend for recess.