Msimbati and Songosongo are two villages in the Southern regions blessed with natural gas. However, each has got its own way of benefiting from the resource. Whereas Msimbati is in Mtwara Region, Songosongo is located in Lindi Region. The hamlets became widely popular after discoveries of the natural gas in their lands and later extraction over five years ago. But, the question remained how the villages could benefit from the resource, particularly revenues earned by the mining companies. The country’s Finance Act requires that the companies pay a service levy equivalent to 0.3 per cent of their annual turnover to councils in areas they operate. According to Mtwara Acting District Executive Director, Patrick Almasi all collected service levies from the mining companies are regarded as council’s revenues. The companies have been paying the levy since they started extraction and production in the district. Such revenues are kept into one pool and are allocated to the development projects and the administrative activities. The district spends 40 per cent of the service levy on development projects and the remaining 60 per cent is allocated for administrative operations. The money set aside for the development projects is disbursed to the villages in the district as per their needs after identifying crucial projects to be undertaken in their areas. But, the residents living surrounding the mining areas suggest that there could be a specific amount set aside for their villages since they are directly affected by the mining activities. This suggestion has also been advocated for by some of the villagers who acquired awareness education under the project so called “Active Citizenship in Improving Petroleum Governance.” The Oxfam in Tanzania (OiTZ) in collaboration with Oxfam US are implementing this project which aims at improving accountability in the extractive industries. It emphasizes on ensuring that citizens (community animators) are critically engaged in the sector. Mr Mahafudhi Mbaruku, the animator at Msimbati village, was uncertain over the service levy benefits to the village, saying Songosongo village enjoys shares from the gas extraction after Kilwa District council had put in place bylaws that enables the village to get 20 per cent of the service levy paid to the council. Mtwara Society Against Poverty (MSOAPO) which implements the project in Mtwara Region says many people were unaware of the issues over the gas extractive industry; Mr Mustafa Kuiyunga, project coordinator, explains that the implementation of the project mainly focused on empowering them by educating them on laws and regulations governing oil and gas as well as local content policy. On sharing the service levy, the organization sat with the district leaders and villagers to discuss over how the villages could get a share because they were directly affected by the extraction activities. “Together with district leaders, we went to Songosongo village to learn how they benefit from the natural gas. After the tour we hope that the next full council meeting will decide to borrow a leaf from Kilwa district council,” he said. Acting Kilwa District Executive Director Stephen Pundil they managed to sort out issues of sharing revenues with the Songosongo village where the natural gas is extracted. The district gets 0.3 per cent of the total profit of the gas mining company since 2012 and spends the money on development projects. Mr Pundile says the district has always been allocating 20 per cent of the money to the Songosongo village for its socio-economic development. “The village has been spending the money for constructing schools, dispensaries and other social infrastructures,” he says. Through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) the Songosongo village also enjoys free electricity offered by the mining company. Songosongo Ward Executive Officer Saidi Bungala says he has been participating in the investment process as a local leader, for instance, when a new company comes to invest or wants to recruit some villagers and so on. The animators at Songosongo are trusted and have been actively following up on the service levy when the district council delays to pay the 20 per cent of the service levy to the village. The LANGO explains that it has been carrying out the project by involving a number of stakeholders including government leaders from grassroots level, citizens and the media. Furthermore, the project has strengthened partnership and collaboration among the stakeholders in the gas extraction industry in Lindi Region. “Today, the District Commissioner or District Executive Director won’t be surprised to see citizens of Songosongo village visiting their offices to seek for information over gas extraction in their village, so the campaign has come to bridge a gap between the citizens and the leaders,” he states. The villagers at Songosongo village have confirmed that their leadership has been engaging them in matters relating to the gas extraction. The animators used to advocate for transparency in earnings and spending of the 20 per cent share of the service levy from the district council. “Initially we were afraid of asking over earnings and spending, but after being educated and know our rights we are now following up on the service levy and how it is spent, as a result, things have improved,” Ms Chiku Kombe, a villager, says. The service levy has boosted village revenues, hence, it has been using the money to construct new health facilities, classrooms and recruit 6 more primary school teachers this year alone. Lindi Association of Non-governmental Organisations (LANGO) which implements the project in the region highlighted notable achievements of the project in the Kilwa district council, saying one of them is the growth of transparency in service levy collected from extractive industry. The council now makes public the revenues it has collected in service levy since 2012. The data shows that by this year the council has collected a total of Tshs2.9 billion from the gas mining companies. “In the past this has never been a tendency. If that isn’t enough, the Songosongo village government also reveals to the villagers the amount it receives from the council as part of service levy which goes directly to the village,” says Mr Sharifu Maloya, Executive Secretary of the LANGO.