IT was delightful to learn recently that the nation, so far, has a food reserve that is hefty enough to carter for all citizens and remain with a surplus of thee million tonnes. The self sufficiency ration, we have been told, stands at 124 per cent. Indeed, this is delightful news. During the past farming season (2018/19) the nation’s food demand stood at 13,569,285 tonnes. At the moment we have an excess of 3,013,515 tonnes, the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Japhet Hasunga says. Statistics indicate that between June 2017 and June 2018 a total of 64,477.95 tonnes of maize valued at 222bn/- were exported to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Kenya, Uganda, South Sudan and the United Arab Emirates. So, the Year 2018 wound up without worrisome complaints about food shortages countrywide. Although drought hit some regions including Dodoma, Tabora, Singida, Shinyanga and Mwanza ruining crops, most families managed to fend for themselves. In short, there was enough food to go round even on the tables of poor families. Agriculture in Tanzania is dominated by smallholder farmers (peasants) who cultivate average farm sizes of between 0.9 hectares and 3.0 hectares each. This also means that about 70 per cent of Tanzania’s crop area is cultivated by hand hoe. But it should also be understood at the outset that 20 per cent of the farmland is tilled by oxen ploughs and 10 per cent by tractors. It is also unfortunate that Tanzania depends on rain-fed agriculture. This is a longstanding weakness that remains a die-hard. Food crop production dominates the agriculture economy. About 5.1 million hectares are cultivated annually, of which 85 per cent are under food crops. Women, it has been established, constitute the main part of agricultural labour force. The major constraint facing the agriculture sector is the falling productivity due to application of poor technology, dependence on unreliable and irregular weather conditions. Both crops and livestock are adversely affected by periodical droughts. Irrigation holds the key to stabilizing agricultural production in Tanzania to improve food security, increase farmers’ productivity and incomes. The food crops grown mainly in the Southern Highlands, the nation’s bread basket, are maize, sorghum, millet, paddy, wheat, sweet potato, cassava, pulses and bananas. Hunger never stalks the highlands which comprise, Mbeya, Iringa, Ruvuma and Rukwa regions. These are the Big Four. Ironically, while farmers in the Southern Highlands complain that the surplus food stockpiled in their homes is spoiling for lack of markets, residents in Manyara, Shinyanga, Dodoma, Mara, Arusha and Tabora struggle with pangs of hunger. Even the Strategic Grain Reserves held enough food to ward off hunger during the year 2018.. Going by statistics, agriculture provides work for 14.7 million Tanzanians. This figure also translates to 79 per cent of the total economically active population. Farmers, who make up nearly 90 per cent of the more than 50 million-strong nation, need a lot of societal support. It is these mostly poor peasant farmers who eke out a meager living out of farm work and produce surplus to feed the rest of the population. But there is a kink in state efforts to improve food supply nationwide. Most corrupt elements have faced a monumental cash flow problem since President John Magufuli came into power at the end of 2015. Mr Magufuli’s administration has fought corrupt individuals left, right and centre and reinstalled a state of financial discipline. Affected individuals lament bitterly saying that the State’s move has shunted in a spectre of poverty and hunger. Some say that there is less food on most family tables and that the situation is akin to a famine. Well, this is not true. The Magufuli administration is doing painstaking work to whip corrupt elements and outright thieves back into line. In the past, some employees had virtually stopped working. They were busy looting State coffers while pretending to work. And the list of ghost workers, at that juncture, was incredibly long. Some people got one, two, three or more salaries every month. Posh homes sprouted on the outskirts of most cities and municipalities. And the number of motor vehicles boomed and chocked most streets. Most executive officers globe-trotted doing shopping overseas while lesser employees made most of their travel upcountry. The sky was the limit when it came to official cheating. Most employees at all levels found intriguing, innovative trends to survive with absolute comfort. Most drivers sold the fuel in their motor vehicles and some messengers moved files faster, at a fee. As President Magufuli often says, Tanzania is a rich nation. It is one of only a few countries that have an abundance of mostly untapped natural resources. But most Tanzanians, especially in rural areas, appear to be languishing in abject poverty come sun come rain. Tanzania has more than 44 million hectares of arable land, of which less than a quarter is currently under cultivation. This means over 34 million hectares of land, almost the size of Germany, is suitable for food production, but is not being utilized. The main reason is that most subsistence farmers use either the hand hoe. An insignificant number use the ox-drawn plough. And there are those who use crude stick ploughs often drawn by donkeys. Now, you cannot farm an area the size of Germany with a hand hoe. Indeed, Tanzania is just one example of how much more land could be used to grow food and cash crops such as cotton if farmers were given access to the resources, including farm machinery, needed to increase agricultural productivity and transform livelihoods. In Tanzania, where more than 67 per cent of the total population lives in rural areas, reliance on agriculture and agriculture-related activities is a vital source of employment. However, in some areas food is a matter of life and death when harsh drought strikes. In terms of agricultural production, Tanzania performs poorly compared to the rest of sub-Saharan Africa, especially in cereal productivity, labor productivity, and the ratio in which agricultural land is allocated to family farms. These poor performances often stem from a number of factors, including low investment in research and development and high dependence on rudimentary technology (around 70 per cent of Tanzanians still depend on hand hoes for cultivating their crops). Although Tanzania has a huge herd of cattle, for example, its citizens are also poor eaters of meat and even poorer drinkers of their own milk. The nation slaughters 1,500,000 bulls; 2,500,000 goats and 550, 000 sheep on average every year. But the citizens of this considerably wealthy nation eat only 11 kilos of meat each a year which is very low as compared to the 50 kilos recommended by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Milk drinking rates are equally miserable. The nation has a huge task in its hands. Apart from enlightening its citizens on the good virtues of eating enough meat and drinking much milk, efforts should be made to ensure that exports of live cattle taper off and that more cattle products are exported. However, Tanzania has many other plans on its economic development cards. These include starting up palm tree farms. It has come to light that palm oil seeds will soon become the sixth cash crop of priority as the state seeks to end the importation of edible oils. The upshot here is boosting domestic processing of edible oil, Prime Minister Majaliwa has said. Initially there were five cash crops of priority which earned Tanzania foreign currency through exports. The crops are cashew nuts, cotton, tobacco, coffee and tea. The envisaged massive farming of the crop will enable the country to produce enough palm oil to eventually eliminate importation of most other edible oils from abroad. At the moment, Tanzania spends about 600bn/- each year to import a variety of edible oils. Mr Majaliwa has already told farmers in Kigoma to start preparing farms as the government works on the modalities for providing them with seedlings. Palm trees can be planted in farms as well as homes for shade and decoration. After three years the trees become money spinners. As mentioned before, the government, plans to terminate the imports of a variety of cooking oils in the coming few years. The goal is to exploit fully local potential in palm oil production. Cooking oil can also be extracted from groundnuts, sesame, sunflower, cashew nuts and other crops, all of which thrive in Tanzania but the priority at the moment is palm oil production. The premier made it abundantly clear that the state has decided to make sure that no more importation of cooking oils is made in near future since the nation can improve its own production facilities. When production reaches its peak surplus oil will be exported. Initial exports can benefit the East African Community nations. Indeed, palm oil tree farming is a brilliant idea, to say the least. In yesteryears Tanzania was a shining example in palm oil production. At one point the nation donated palm tree seeds to Malaysia. Today, Malaysia is one of the leading exporters of locally produced palm oil. So, Prime Minister Majaliwa has extolled the good virtues of growing palm trees to Tanzanian farmers. It is envisaged that massive production of the crop will be attained. It is also imperative to point out that palm oil production has been proved to be a money spinner in countries such as Malaysia and Indonesia. The two countries account for around 87% of global palm oil production and the demand for the oil continue to grow.