From a standing position a cheetah can cover about 7 meters in one stride. While cruising at 120 kilometers per hour the cat must be able to locate its prey which is also moving very fast. While throwing sandy, fine particles which penetrate into the eyes with its eyes aching the big cat will be forced to abandon the mission and deal with affected eyes. To hunt effectively in challenging environment the cheetah is equipped with different mechanism that enables it to sprint like no other predator Earth, for camouflaging it has yellow and black spotted body. A 65 centimeter long tail for balancing, lightweight skeleton, flexible or fast twitching fibers, elastic back muscles, bendable spine, and powerful heart. A very small head with large nostrils and forward facing eyes. The cheetah’s eyes face forward, and from any position the cat has maximum information from area that covers more than 200 degree compared 180 degree which humans can see. Not only that a cheetah is capable to see details from several miles away and the passion of its eyes allow the cheetah to judge the distance it has to cover to catch its prey. The eyes also have an image stabilisation system to keep the prey in sharp focus when the cheetah is running. While humans sprinters go through many years of training to become world class athletics. In the Serengeti it is able to achieve a top speed of between 104 to 121 kilometers per hour. In a flash of 30 seconds a physically fit cheetah will chase and capture its victim weather it’s an impala, small wildebeest or gazelle. To achieve this wonderful speed during a typical chase, its respiratory rate increases from 60 to 150 breaths per minute. With its eyes on agile gazelle, with its specialized body capable of accelerating between 10 and 40 meters per second to click 40 meters per hour or 64 kilometers per hour. Just after 3 steps which make some analysts to say it’s a bust and not a run, scientists say this ability enables the cat to capture 40 to 50 percent of its prey between 100 to 300 meters from the initial point. Cheetah is differentiated from a leopard by black "tear marks" running from the corner of its eyes down the sides of the nose to its mouth. Different scientific researches indicate the lines work to keep sunlight out of its eyes and aid in hunting and seeing long distances. Furthermore scientist say the cat hunts by vision whereby a prey is captured between ten to thirty meters which are covered within shortest period of time. These factors makes the cheetah to prefer to work in daytime whereby the black lines absorb sunlight before it passes into the eyes. Although it can hunt in the afternoon when the sun is up in the sky and the temperature is high the cheetah will be forced to hunt in the morning or evening because its eyes cannot work effectively during darkness. Night is dominated by darkness and that means poor vision to most mammals in the savannah where most herbivorous retreat to safer places where big cats are not able to find them. On their side when they feel like hunting, lions may organise themselves for a hunting activity but after two hours if they found it’s very difficult to locate, chase and capture a prey they will wait for the night where darkness is their greatest allies. Scientists say when light fade as night approaches, both human, primates and bovines eyes adjust themselves immediately because they have evolved to work in a dimly light environment only because of a smart brain which process and translate faded picture of an object. With that great ability of our minds, as the night grow older our vision become poor to point that whenever we want to go outside we need assistants from artificial source of light. Unlike others, lions are mammals that have eyes which have the same level like human eyes during day light but at night these predators see eight times more than human being. Scientists say lions see mainly in blue and greens environment. With highly developed night vision mechanism, this doesn’t mean they can see in the dark because if they work on a pitch which is black they will be blind. Lion’s eyes are designed to work effectively in darkness where they are able to pick and use very little light available even from stars and moon. Lions have more rod cells than cone cells in the retina of the eye. These are photoreceptor or light sensitive cells which function to convert visible electromagnetic radiations or light into signals which stimulate biological process. Scientists say lion's eyes are equipped with two photoreceptor cells which are rods and cones, each of these cells contributing information used by the visual system to form a representation of the visual activities. Cone cells are wider and work as colour detector while rods cells are narrow and responsible for light as they are distributed differently across the retina. This feature shows that lions have more light sensitive cells packed tightly in the fovea a most sensitive area of the retina. This means their eyes need little amount of light to see something in darkness than human eyes. Lions have a Tapetum lucidum, this is a reflective layer of cells positioned behind the retina. This means that light entering into the lions eye's will be absorbed by either the rod or cone cells. Light that passes through the retina and the photoreceptor cells is reflected back by the mechanism while the light sensitive cells have a second chance to absorb the light waves. This is a very effective mechanism that work in doubling the effectiveness of their night vision. Not only that, outside each eye of lions, there are white patches which are located under each eye and work to enhance a little amount of light available while enabling the super predator to work effectively at night. In Mikese villagers are very much afraid of lion’s attacks at night but in West African countries villagers sing beautiful song in praise of leopard as an agent of darkness. Leopards are nocturnal animals which means they are mostly active during darkness. They are equipped with super eyes which are useful to darkness so they can see an antelope which have very poor sight in night hours especially when the moonlights goes off. Leopards have excellent binocular vision which involves the use of both eyes at once. They have eyesight, which allows them to judge distances, like other cats they cannot see in complete darkness they only need at least dim light from the Moon in order to distinguish objects at night. These cats' eyes have a special reflective layer behind the retina. This layer allows light that has not been absorbed first pass through the retina to stimulate the retina for a second time and provide good vision in poor light. It is this layer that makes cats' eyes appears to glow in the dark when a light flashes on them. Regardless if it is day or night lions follow and attack their prey after getting closer at a distance of between 50 to 30 meters. But leopards don’t waste their energy unscrupulously like that. The predator will pursue a target slowly over distances of a few hundred meters, or wait in a prime location for an ambush. At night time when antelopes depend on their big ears which they rotate in different direction to peak any incoming warning sound. A leopard may walk slowly to a position where it can attack its victim. Like most cats leopards have paw with soft materials which enable them to walk towards their victims without producing any sound. With all their abilities all big cats are threatened by humans activities. At the time when the government is working very hard to increase the number of tourists coming to our national parks it is a responsibility for every Tanzanian to protect all animals. Tourists from Europe, Asia, America and other parts of the world come to Tanzania because they are assured that if they go to Serengeti, Mikumi, Tarangire, Ruaha, Udzungwa and other beautiful national parks they will see lions, leopards and cheetahs dwelling in well kept natural environment. We need to do something more to protect all the big cats because the International Union for Conservation of Nature or IUCN has placed lion, leopard and cheetah in the list of endangered species. Due to population decrease caused by poachers lured by its beautiful skins and body parts for witchcrafts.