…It is a decision of a Cabinet session chaired by President Magufuli  THE Cabinet has approved zero per cent Value Added Tax (VAT) for the electricity sold to Zanzibar Electricity Corporation (ZECO) by the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (TANESCO). Simultaneously, the Cabinet has waived the accumulated 22.9bn/- VAT debt that ZECO owed TANESCO. The decision was reached during a Cabinet meeting held at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday, chaired by President John Magufuli. Those in attendance included Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Zanzibar President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, and Chief Secretary Ambassador John Kijazi. Speaking after the meeting, President Magufuli who also doubles as the Cabinet Chairperson, said that following the decisions, Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, would submit minor amendments of the VAT Law, Article 148 through the Finance Act of 2019 so that electricity sold to Zanzibar should be taxed zero per cent of VAT. According to the President, Zanzibar will be billed only for the consumed amount of power, as was the case in say, Dar es Salaam. “There is no VAT issue now. Concerning the accumulated 22.9bn/-, we, the Cabinet will submit recommendations to Parliament for exemption because the debt is in the 2018/19 budget,” said President Magufuli. On his part, Dr Shein said that despite the approval of zero per cent, the Cabinet also agreed that the Vice President would convene meetings to discuss Union issues whenever they arose and make decisions. “We want these issues to be properly addressed because we are concerned with both two sides of the Union. This is important because when issues pile up, wananchi think that we are not supporting their efforts,” stated Dr Shein. Before the Cabinet meeting, President Magufuli swore in Minister of the State, Prime Minister’s Office, Investment, Ms Angellah Kairuki. Ms Kairuki was appointed following minor changes of the Cabinet, by President Magufuli on January 8, 2019. She was previously Minister for Minerals.