TWENTY Four and 150 kilogrammes of gold and rhodolite gemstone, respectively, were last year confiscated from drug and organised crime cases, according to Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). DPP Biswalo Maganga, speaking at a three-day prosecutors meeting here yesterday, said during the period the government also withheld other properties of the accused in cases of illicit drugs, economic sabotage and organised crimes. He warned landlords whose buildings are used for drugs or organised crimes that they risk confiscation of their properties as well, reminding them to understand the people they rent their houses. Mr Maganga said his office decided to confiscate and withhold properties, including freezing bank accounts of the convicted drug barons and organised criminals as well as suspects of the same cases. “People should shy away from those crimes because the National Prosecution Services (NPS), which is an autonomous entity since February last year has been leaving no stone unturned in the fight against crimes that have heavily cost the country in terms of the negative effects caused,” said the DPP. Added he: “Let me assure you that we will forfeit, confiscate and withhold all properties of anyone involved in the crimes irrespective of one’s (social or economic) status.” He further said assessment will be carried out in any case, which the state loses especially the drug and organised crimes for a better way forward. Mr Maganga issued strong warning to NPS prosecutors, saying his office is intolerable to any officer condoning corruption. “That is why in this conference we have also invited the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Drugs Control and Enforcement Authority (DCEA) and the Police Force,” stated DPP. As for joint efforts to fight illicit drugs and organised crimes, the DPP invited to the meeting DPPs and prosecutors from Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Mozambique, South Africa, European Union and Spain to share experience and put in place common strategies. The prosecutors will also have to share their annual work plans and targets as NPS seeks to get rid of the business as usual trend and instead embrace fairness, peace and security for public and national prosperity. Constitutional and Legal Affairs Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, opening the conference, appreciated the EU for its financial support to the capacity training that has boosted the government efforts to fight drugs and organised crimes. In a speech read on his behalf by Attorney General Dr Adelardus Kilangi, the minister tasked the prosecutors to exhaustively use the conference opportunity to bring about the desired changes. “We want to equip prosecutors with the latest techniques that drug dealers apply…because in their prosecution, they will at some stages need to be well versed with the criminals’ techniques,” he said.