NYERERE Village in Kongwa District, Dodoma Region has finally received electricity in the Rural Energy Agency (REA) programme since independence. Speaking at the lighting ceremony at Nyerere Primary School in the village over the weekend, Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani, said households should not be charged more than 27,000/- for their homes to get connected to electricity. “The government has set low charges for electricity connectivity so that all people in rural areas afford the cost,” pointed out the Energy Minister, while addressing residents of Nyerere Village during the event. Dr Kalemani said households should get connected to electricity within seven days after paying for the service, directing that families should not be charged for utility poles anywhere in the country. “It is not the people’s responsibility to cover the costs of utility poles. It’s REA’s responsibility to put up electricity infrastructure including utility poles,” said the Minister. Dr Kalemani urged all residents of Nyerere Village and neighbouring areas to start wiring their houses for electricity connections, adding that families with a single room house will be provided with UMETA device. UMETA is Kiswahili abbreviation for readymade electricity, and it requires no wiring in a house in order to get electricity connection. In a related development, the Minister called upon public leaders in Kongwa to mobilise their people to connect their houses to electricity to expedite social and economic development in the area. Presiding over the occasion, Kongwa Member of Parliament (MP), who is also Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Job Ndugai, expressed gratitude to the government for supplying them with electricity, noting that the service will enable the villagers to set up small industries, and raise their livelihoods. “Electricity service will enable the people to fully participate in the industrial economy by setting up small industries largely food processing ones,” said the Kongwa MP. Mr Moses Malima, one of the villagers, said electricity will also improve their children academic performance in schools, because they will no longer use lamps while studying at home.