Our nation is in full swing since we ushered in a resolution to enter a swifter and broader social and economic transformation process. It is very clear that we are on a steady and sound move. There is hop e and optimism f or a successful journey. The confidence among wananchi is not only p romising but vivid and glowing. Today, I want to suggest that if the nation wants to benefit from an eff ective p articip ation of citiz ens in the nation building agenda, we should all seek to foster the value and principle of respect, something which, in recent times, seem to have been badly shaken. In the absence of resp ect, comes harassment, bullying and discrimination. These are bad experiences. I am glad my p osition is in line with the current situations in our society, whereby lack of respect is point out as a concern most people are experiencing. We are in a period where respect is highly demanded, and dignity, something intrinsic and rooted in personhood itself, regardless of a person’s social standing in the community, is highly called for. Today, people are asking a number of questions; do others resp ect me or not? When my leader speaks to me, is he or she aware that I am a human being whose dignity should be protected? Put it simply, there are a lot of questions surrounding the value of respect. I presume, this is the reason, a few years ago, which prompted Honourable Benjamin Mkapa, the former President of Tanzania to emphasize, in the words of his foreword for the Tanzania Development Vision 2025 document, when he clearly said; it is the responsibility of each one of us, Tanzanians, to isolate and censure anyone who entertains, promotes or nurtures disrespect, disharmony, hatred and mistrust in our country. I believe Honourable Mkapa knew very well that even though the majority of Tanzanians are patriotic people of integrity, but we still have people, from various walks of life, who have no due regard for the feelings, wishes and rights of others. Tanzanians who, in my view have no feelings of admiration for some people based on their abilities, qualities or achievements. How, as a country shall we ensure that together we create an environment that many would understand that empathy, courtesy and above all resp ect is critical to the achievement of our mission? Here I mean a task of nurturing industrialisation for economic transformation and human development. Unfortunately while our f ellow human beings in the West are starting to hanker after those good old days when neighbours, relatives and friends would rally around one another in times of hap piness and sadness, for us values of respect, intense humanness, caring, sharing, compassion and associated values seems to be vanishing. This is not good news. My argument is simple. We must revive the value of resp ect for others especially now when throughout our society, be it organizations, teams, close relationships, customer relationships etc. there is an increasing demand for respect. I emphasize that this proposition is a non-negotiable at the time when the evergreater concern about whether respect is granted or not, is growing at an unprecedented pace. Well, as human beings we must respect one another because we need one another. I believe my reader supports me and will behappy to stand firmly to my opinion and position. This is a very strong judgement simply because in our day-to-day actions, it is very easy, as human beings to forget that it is always very important to consider the thoughts and feelings of others. Be it at family level, or in social political circles, or in any government decision making position, there is a need to remind the general public that each one of us needs to be polite and civil, especially when we speak to each other or communicate in whatever podium. Put it simply, each one should be aware of the boundaries of inappropriate behaviour. But we have the question to answer here. Why does resp ect matter? Well, if you live in an era dominated, from within by calls for diversification of the economy based on a dynamic industrialization programme, and from outside by those with advanced technological capacity, high p roductivity, modern and efficient transport and communication to mention a few, you need respect among actors. In other words, we need an environment which promotes respect and consideration because it is, after all, key to good mental health and general wellbeing of wananchi, as well as morale and productivity. At whatever level and circumstance, an emphasis on mutual respect could easily create an environment in which people, leaders and their subordinates feel supported to achieve their best and progress in their nation building role. Thus my call for reviving and stimulating the value of respect cannot be overstressed. We simply, as a nation need to see people and leaders valuing respect. As for our leaders, if I may note, what we expect from them is to see them championing a positive approach to change and opportunity at this point in time when JPM and his team are bringing back hope to the nation. We expect them to encourage inclusive particip ation of their fellow leaders and eliminate nuisance and irritation. Instead of harassing and distressing them, they should ensure that they not only consider their thoughts and expectations but diligently support and develop wananchi to optimise talents. Actually, those who have been given responsibility to lead, should always bear in mind that respect signals a full recognition to whoever is led as a person. The same respect provides information about wananchi’s status, prestige and a feeling of being accepted by others and their leaders in the community. Once again, let me reiterate. We need a community built on respect. In fact a respectful, welcoming and inclusive environment is important if we want to put the task of developing the country in our own hands. As a nation we should place great importance on protecting and respecting the dignity of each and every one. Respecting peop le is very important. Being rude and inconsiderate is a trait of selfish people who treat others like they are worthless. If I was to advise my leaders on matters related to the value of respect, I would simply say; do not, in whatever way, make people feel distressed, humiliated or threatened by the way you behave. It is time to embrace diversity and recognise and celebrate achievement among your fellow colleagues and all citizens. Undeniably respect for others should be a value to watch for in the industrialisation agenda. I think Hussein Nishah’s wisdom is useful here, he says; treat people the way you want to be treated. Talk to peop le the way you want to be talked to. Respect is earned, not given. Cheers!