As part of continued efforts to speed up water supply projects, the government has terminated contracts with two companies that were executing the projects in Kisarawe District, Coast Region. The projects in question are Chole valued at 1.6bn/- and Boga (536m/-) which together are meant to supply water to Chole, Kwala and Boga villages in the district. This was revealed on Tuesday during an inspection tour of four water projects in Kisarawe, by the Deputy Minister of Water and Irrigation, Mr Jumaa Aweso. Briefing guest, the Kisarawe District Water Engineer, Majid Mtili said the decision was reached in a fresh bid to ensure the projects wesre completed as soon as possible. He said already, 1.16bn/- had been paid to Kika Construction Company who was undertaking theChole project while the Mazongela Building Company that was contracted to implement a water project in Boga village was yet to be paid. “The Chole project has been completed by 72 per cent, but at a slow pace, and the contractor hasn’t been at the site for more than two months despite various reminders that we have been sending to him,” he said. The deputy minister responded by declaring that companies whose contracts had been terminated would not be allowed to execute any other project in the country. The project in Boga village started in June last year and it was supposed to be accomplished within six months, while the Chole one started in 2014. “This is a spirit that all councils should embrace; all incompetent contractors should be dropped because they are delaying the economic development process. The government is determined to ensure that reliable water supply covers all urban and rural areas,” Mr Aweso said. The deputy minister instructed Mr Mtili to assign competent companies to complete the job. He also warned contractors and engineers to ensure effective implementation of water projects, as the government won’t tolerate incompetence that compromised the well-being of wananchi. “The government will not tolerate this behaviour because it frustrates the government’s goal of facilitating safe and clean water supply to 95 per cent of its people by the year 2020,” he explained. Earlier, the Kisarawe District Commissioner, Ms Jokate Mwegelo, said shortage of clean and safe water had delayed development in her district. “We are facing challenges when it comes to inviting investors as many of them are asking if we have clean and safe water,” she said, expressing optimism that many projects would be completed within two years.