HIGH Court’s Commercial Division has placed litigants in banking sector at a cross road with its contradictory rulings on recovery of loans from defaulting borrowers. The latest ruling allows financial institutions to recover the balance of loans from properties other than those mortgaged upon repayment default. In his recent verdict, Judge Lugano Mwandambo ordered payments of 299m/- as loan balance in a commercial case involving the Bank of Africa Tanzania Limited (BOA), as plaintiff, and businessman Naif Balhabou, as defendant as well as one Nacy Gagic and Salah Aly, as third parties. The December 14, 2018 dated judgment comes hardly three months after another ruling by Judge Amir Mruma of the same court, restricting banks to mortgaged properties as they attempt to realisethe advanced loan facilities as per the Mortgage Agreement and Facility letters. In the new decision, Justice Mwandambo said, “... there must be evidence of negligence or breach of duty in conducting sale resulting into obtaining a price lower than the market value which will preclude the lender from pursuing the borrower of the balance.” Furthermore, the Judge was of the view that the position taken by his colleague— Justice Mruma—will apply to cases where the lender pursues the mortgagor for other properties for the balance following sale not fetching adequate price to realise the debt. In his judgment, therefore, Judge Mwandambo declared the defendant businessman to have breached the facility letter agreement and ordered him to pay the plaintiff bank a sum of 299,290,629/11 plus interests at 38 per cent per annum from the date of filing the suit till judgment. He also dismissed the third party notice to have Nacy Gagic and Salah Aly held liable for the default of the loan repayment. In the case, the plaintiff had sued the defendant for recovery of 314,290,629/11 balance on the loan extended to him under the facility letter issued on September 11, 2012. It was alleged that on September 10, 2012, the bank processed the defendant’s application for an overdraft facility of 250m/- and scaled it down to 150m/- and made an offer in the form of the facility letter in that sum for 12 months with 25.5 per cent interest rate. The defendant accepted the offer on September 11, 2012. As security for the overdraft facility, Nancy Gagic executed a legal mortgage over the right of occupancy on her landed property on plot situated in Morogoro Municipality for unspecified amount but not in excess of the amount shown in the letter. Despite the agreed terms through the facility letter in relation to repayment, the defendant defaulted in repaying the loan on expiry of the contracted 12 months. This prompted the plaintiff to issue a default notice to the mortgagor, requiring her to remedy the default by paying the outstanding amount. The mortgagor did not comply with the notice and filed a land case to oppose the disposal of the landed property. However, the suit was dismissed for want of prosecution. The bank then advertised for sale of mortgaged property, of which 150m/- was realised. The sale left the balance of 299,290,629/11, compelling the plaintiff’s bank to file another suit for recovery against the borrower, the defendant. The defendant disputed the suit, alleging that he did not personally utilise the loaned amount rather his account was used by Nacy Gagic and Salah Aly. He further contended that the bank was to blame itself for selling the mortgaged property at a throw away price of 150m/- as compared to the forced market value of 247m/- according to a valuation report prepared in July 2012, two months prior to the approval of the overdraft facility on September 11, 2012.