Today, January 30th, is the Feast Day of ‘Martina of Rome,’ a Virgin, Saint and Martyr who is venerated in the Roman Catholic Church as Patron of Rome and Nursing Mothers. She has a Church dedicated to her as a major shrine in Rome, the ‘Santi Luca e Martina,’situated between the Roman Forum and the Forum of Caesar, close to the Arch of Septimus Severus. Very briefly, St. Martina started out (so to speak) as the daughter of an ex-Consul. But, it seems no one, living or dead, knows her date of birth! Described as “a noble and beautiful virgin” – and orphaned at an early age – young Martina so openly testified to her Christian faith that she could not escape the persecutions that were rife under the Roman Emperor Alexander Severus (222-235AD). Arrested and ordered to return to idolatry (worshipping idols), our very stubborn Martina flatly refused–whereupon she was subjected to various forms of tortures before finally having her head chopped off! According to her ‘vita’ –a brief biographical sketch –the tortures to which young Martina was subjected included being ‘scourged (whipped) and scaled.’ Then she was condemned to be devoured by wild beasts in the amphitheater that had been deliberately left hungry for some time. In the event, she was miraculously left untouched by the near-starving beasts... [Reminds one of the legendary Daniel in the den of lions, doesn’t it? Daniel remained untouched by the beasts overnight, while his rivals who had tricked Babylon’s King Darius the Mede into condemning Daniel to death were themselves, their wives and children tossed into the lions’ den. In the event, they were all hungrily devoured unto nothingness... [Go to Chapter 6 of the Biblical ‘Book of Daniel’]. Our Martina of Rome was then thrown onto a burning pyre. But, she also emerged from it unburnt, unhurt. This infuriated the authorities no end, who then ordered her to be beheaded in 228AD... [Or was it 226AD? Again, no one knows which one of these two was the actual year of her execution. But, the beheading worked]. Then again–as the Sisters of Fate would have it –her Hagiography asserts that those who were at the forefront in persecuting her, as well as her executioners, soon enough converted to Christianity. In the event, they themselves were just as soon beheaded for abandoning the Idolatry mode of worship, life! So much, then, for Saint Martina... I deliberately chose to start with her because it was on a date like today’s (January 30) down History that King Charles-I of England was also beheaded in 1649 – and Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated by Nathuram Godse, a Hindu extremist, in 1948, some 299 years to the day after King Charles-I was done in! Oh... it was also on January 30 in the year-1661 that Oliver Cromwell (1599-1658) – the self-styled ‘Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England’ – was ‘ritually executed.’ That was more than two years after his actual death on September 3, 1658. Confusing? Well, it was like this... Cromwell was struck by a sudden bout of malarial fever in late 1658, followed by an illness symptomatic of a urinary or kidney ailment. He died – and was buried just as soon. However, his body was exhumed from Westminster Abbey on January 30, 1661 – the 12th anniversary of the beheading of King Charles-I, in whose trial and execution Cromwell was closely involved, even signing the King’s execution warrant. The body was then subjected to a ritualistic ‘posthumous execution...,’et cetera, et cetera. You only have to Google the ubiquitous Internet for the gory details, which I spare my esteemed readers here, Heaven forbid! Shifting from politically-inspired beheadings, penal pyres, half-starved wild animals and other executions to mostly politically-inspired assassinations... For some reason or other, the US has had more than the world’s usual share of assassinations and attempted/failed assassinations of Heads of States. These started with the assassination attempt exactly 184 years ago to the date – on January 30, 1835–of President Andrew Jackson outside Capitol Hill by a house painter, Richard Lawrence, whose two pistols misfired. Anyway, four ‘sitting’ US presidents were shot dead out of the more than 30 assassination attempts on incumbent, former or presidents-elect, starting with Andrew Jackson. Those killed while in Office were Presidents Abraham Lincoln (1865); James Garfield (1881); William McKinley (1901), and J F Kennedy (November 22, 1963... Jeez: my 22nd birthday anniversary!). Incidentally, there were two assassination attempts on Abe Lincoln... the first on February 23, 1861: the ‘Baltimore Plot’ to kill the president-elect en-route to his inauguration; and the August 1864 unknown sniper’s bullet which tore through the president’s hat as he rode alone from the White House to his sleeping quarters at the ‘Sdiers’ Home’...