In a bid to facilitate the filling in of an asset declaration form for about 16,000 public leaders in the country, the Ethics Secretariat will introduce an online asset declaration system (ADS) to replace the manual system beginning this year. Commissioner of Ethics Secretariat Judge (rtd) Harold Nsekela revealed this yesterday, noting that the new system would enable public leaders to fill in the asset declaration form anywhere in the country. “This will address a challenge facing public leaders to go to our zonal offices or headquarters to collect and fill in the forms,” said Judge Nsekela, while briefing Deputy State Minister in the President’s Office (Public Service Management and Good Governance) Mary Mwanjelwa. The deputy minister, who was appointed to the post during a recent mini-cabinet reshuffle made by President John Magufuli, was on a familiarisation tour of the Ethics Secretariat headquarters. Judge Nsekela pointed out other plans for the Ethics Secretariat to improve the asset declaration form to keep abreast of current changes and improve monitoring and evaluation on the oath of ethics taken by public leaders. “The secretariat also plans to extend its services to regional level from operating at zonal level,” he noted. Judge Nsekela said the Ethics Secretariat had for the past three years achieved great strides in the submission of asset declaration forms, saying presently the submission of asset declaration forms stood at 96 per cent compared to 77 per cent for the past 10 years. He noted that in 2017/18 his office had reviewed its structure endorsed by President John Magufuli on June 11, 2018. Judge Nsekela said on the new structure, two departments at secretariat namely the Public Leaders Department and the Political Leaders Department were changed to the Public Leaders Ethics Enforcement Division and the Public Leaders Ethics Promotion. He explained that the Public Leaders Ethics Enforcement Division would be responsible for investigation and receiving complaints from members of the public and asset declaration forms and would have two units namely Investigation and Compliance. He said the Public Leaders Ethics Promotion would be responsible for education on ethics to public leaders and members of the public, adding that the division would coordinate the implementation of the Oath of Ethics. “The division will have two sections namely the Ethics Promotion Section and the Ethics Records Analysis Section,” he noted. Dr Mwanjelwa challenged the secretariat staff to set a precedent for ethics compliance. “We expect the Ethics Secretariat staff to be an example to other public servants because charity begins at home,” she said. The deputy minister directed the Ethics Secretariat to improve monitoring and evaluation of asset declaration forms, noting that the secretariat should conduct monitoring to establish if the assets declared by a public leader matched actual assets.