Solutions for rural water supply challenges need not be expensive large scale projects that cover large areas, a climate change adaptation project being implemented in two wards of Muheza District, deep in the East Usambara Mountain is proving. The project has come up with a cheap solution that involves construction of simple and cheap water project covering a small area (village or two villages). The water projects have largely, improved on local technologies that were being used by villagers. In the East Usambaras villagers used slit bamboo pipes, which were placed at the source, normally a rivulet or a spring to collect water at a one source for use by villages. The project constructed simple intakes above where the locals have been placing their bamboo pipe, connecting pipes to water points. The local technologies have served people for years, but unfortunately, they could not reduce the distances used by villagers, especially women in fetching water nor, of course, could not they cushion themselves from dangers of pollution. Villagers used the same source for drawing water, washing clothes and bathing. The water supply intervention, according the Project Manager, Eustack Mtui is just one of several interlinked interventions of the project whose overall objective is to demonstrate effective and efficient strategies that support poor, rural households in Tanzania to adapt to the negative impacts of climate change and to alleviate poverty. It is being implemented by several partners including the Tanzania Forest Conservation Group (TFCG) as leading organisation and Engineering for Human Development (ONGAWA). Others are Muheza District Council, Leeds University and Sokoine University of Agriculture. According to ONGAWA Manager, Gasper Gratian, the project has managed to build a total of four water intakes, four collection points of water at the water sources point, three water collection tanks, one break pressure and 31 DPs. A total number of 553 community members are accessing tap water. The four gravity water systems have been constructed in three of eight villages involved in the Climate Change Adaptation project. The eight villages are Shambangeda, Mgambo- Miembeni, Kwemsoso, Kazita, Zirai, Kizerui, Kwelumbizi and Misalai. The project further identified 27 potential spring water sources from the completed hydro-geological and technical solution studies, whereby 13 sources were selected for piloting the supply of safe and clean water to 3,250 inhabitants as per National Water Policy 2002 (NAWAPO2002). The main objective of NAWAPO2002 is to develop a comprehensive framework for sustainable development and management of the nation’s water resources. The supply of water at close range is said to have brought marital harmony.“Men feel more at ease now when their wives go to fetch water, because the water point is not far from home.” The Kizerui Village Ex- Cheap water solutions for East Usambara residents ecutive Officer (VEO), Anderson Kingazi admits that he used to solve quite a number of marriage rows. “Q uite a lot of men were suspicious when their wives took a long time at the village water source, far from their home,” said Kingazi. Another villager only said one never knows what happens when a woman goes to fetch water and stays there for a long time. Rhoda Peter Nkinda of Kizerui said that drawing water from the village source used to be cumbersome. “Y ou placed your buckets in the morning but manage to get water in the evening. Y ou are never sure what your husband might say at home because of the time taken to get home,” said Ms Rhoda. A 25 year girl at Kwelumbizi Village, deep in the East Usambara’s, Rahma Waziri, burden of fetching water for the family from the village sources was quite a distasteful chore. This was especially so during the rainy season when the soil is slippery. “Women and children would fall down and sustain wounds. It was even more frustrating when you go to the water source to find someone bathing at the same source. Y ou have to wait,” said Rahma, who was washing clothes near a new piped water point. On sustaining the water projects, villagers have already formed Water Users Committees, opening village water accounts and setting regulations that include setting a Sh. 2,000 fee that every household is required to pay per month. The regulations also include management of water points and protection of water sources. The ONGAWA Coordinator, Gasper Gratian said that the project trained 20 village artisans on operation and maintenance (O&M) practices and collaborating in the construction of water systems. He further said that a total of three (3) river committees were established towards managing and controlling conflicts in sub-catchments and are under effective operation. Initially, it was planned to establish two (2) river committees but three committees were established leading to 150 per cent achievement. Also a total of 480 water friendly trees were planted in 15 water sources as way of improving water catchment sources. The project also undertook participatory assessment and recognition visits of water recharge areas and polluted water points with WUAs and river committee members. “A total of 59 water sources were assessed in 13 villages and findings presented to each village government for sharing and uptake,” ONGAWA said. During this assessment human activities being conducted near to water catchments were observed such as farming activities, sand mining and all community members involved were gathered and trained on how their activities were affecting water resources. A total of 235 community members were identified conducting human activities near water catchments from all eight villages. Gasper also said that a conflict baseline study to identify existing conflicts in the sub -catchment linked to water and land management in all 13 villages was successfully carried. After assessment, he said, no conflicts were identified because the water from the villages is not used for irrigation and therefore no conflicts over water users were identified. A total of 16 registers were distributed in order to monitor all destructive activities to water catchment. (One register per village and one register per river committee).