THE Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) on Sunday refuted claims that it owes the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC) 31m/- in health bills for its staff. In a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, the authority’s Public Relations Manager, Ms Joyce Mgaya, said none of their staff is in debt at the Moshi based medical facility, as it was recently reported at the institution’s public notice. According to Ms Mgaya, the debt highlighted by the hospital was from villagers and pastoralists surrounding them, who at times get referrals to the KCMC for medical treatment. “Some of the locals who become injured by wild animals were referred to the KCMC upon receiving initial medical treatment at our medical facilities…the accumulated amount must have come from the residents,” she explained. According to Ms Mgaya, all their NCAA staff are covered by the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), adding that none of them is listed by the KCMC to have not settled his/her medical bill. “We also have two medical facilities here at NCAA, however, as part of NCAA’s ‘good neighbourliness’ programme, locals who become severely injured are referred to the KCMC for specialised medical care,” Ms Mgaya further said. Those referred to the KCMC are supposed to present referral forms handed over to them to the medical facility’s authority for records and payment processes. “The figure must have been accumulated due to the delay in processing of their referral forms,” suggested the NCAA public relations manager. To square the matter, she hinted that their office had already contacted the KCMC’s Accounts Department for verification of the disputed figures, before they settle the medical bill in question, if it would be necessary. Two days ago, KCMC management announced through their Public Notice that it will suspend providing medical services to seven organisations until they settled 2.2bn/- outstanding as medical bills. KCMC claimed through the notice further that the aforementioned figure, was proving to be a burden for them to keep on offering medical services to their patients. Apart from NCAA, other organisations mentioned by KCMC include Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), TPC Sugar plant, AAR Insurance, National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Jubilee and Strategies Insurance, all based in Moshi. However, KCMC Public Relations Officer Mr Gabriel Chisseo, when reached for a comment said that they are failing to meet their financial obligation since 2016, when they entered into an agreement with the organisations. On his side, TANESCO Offices in Moshi, Spokesperson Mr Samuel Mandari, trashed the claims as cheap propaganda, adding that their staff continue to receive treatment from the medical facility, because they constantly pay.