As I finished my weekend shopping at the Mwanakwerekwe market in Zanzibar town and heading towards my car, which was parked 200 metres away, I passed through young boys playing a draft. I stopped to see the expertise of the young players in the game, which I used to enjoy playing or watching when I was young. But as I watched the players making the moves most of them stared at me and soon realised that they were disturbed by my presence. In other words I was not a ‘welcomed guest’. Nearby, I saw a boy of about 13 years crying. I first though he was sick or has been beaten by his playmates. When I asked him what was the problem he told me that he lost the 1,000/-given to him by his uncle to buy tomatoes, onions and lime. But a tailor who was nearby told me that he lost the money in the gamble game as he pointed his finger to the group playing the draft. To me, this was a testimony of the unfortunate scenarios of many people especially young boys turning to gambling and betting as an easy way of getting money. In fact, some of them, as was the case of this young boy who was crying, end up regretting for putting at stake the little cash they have in hand. This is a serious problem, perhaps just like drug addiction, now in Tanzania (including Zanzibar) as is the case in many African countries. In the past playing cards, draft or board games was a past time for which had fun and leisure for many people, but nowadays it has turned into a gambling market together with those of the smart phones and mobile digital technology. It is unfortunate that this gambling exercise is lightly taken as a sort of a ‘sporting event’ and widely publicised by our electronic media from sun rise to late at night, especially in the sports programmes. Whether we like it or not, gambling and betting is now a serious social problem in our country and there are those who are now addicted to it. To them life is gambling and gambling is life. Like the smart phone usage gambling and betting now consume most of the time of some people at home as well as in offices, schools, workshops and farms. It is high time we take a serious assessment of the situation which will later have adverse economic effects on individuals and the country. We must look for a good regulatory framework to reduce exposure and solicitation of vulnerable groups, especially our young men and women. Frankly speaking, there seem to be some shortcomings which must be addressed immediately. At the same time we must have a close watch at the centres, where hundreds of our young boys spend most of their time gambling instead of studying, doing productive work or playing useful games as their elders used in the past. We can’t afford to turn a blind eye to this sad and dangerous scenario for our wellbeing by pretending that the gambling and betting we now see in almost each and every corner of the country is part of the present world of sports and recreation. We want a country of nation builders and not those who look at gambling and betting as a source of their income. The earlier we act now to reverse the trend the better.