Embattled Young Africans goalkeeper, Beno Kakolanya has officially written to the club demanding termination of his contract. Yanga yesterday came openly to give the way forward about the team’s first choice goalkeeper Kakolanya, who has been out of action since late last year. Kakolanya has never been included in Yanga squad ever since he returned home from international duty with the senior football team, Taifa Stars against Lesotho in November last year. The sour relationship between the two parties emerged on the day when the Jangwani Street team was preparing to go to Shinyanga to play their first Mainland Premier League match outside Dar es Salaam against Mwadui FC, when it was reported that the goalie refused to travel with the team. Since then, a lot has been said concerning Kakolanya and Yanga but yesterday, one of the key members at the club Samuel Lukumai told a press conference that they have received a letter from lawyers of Kakolanya demanding their client to terminate his contract with the club. “We have received the letter yesterday (Tuesday) from his lawyers, saying he wants to quit as Yanga player but at the moment, we are going to direct the issue to our lawyers for further clarifications because this is a legal matter,” Lukumai said. He further narrated that the club has already paid Kakolanya all his dues like other players but still wondered as to why he has failed to inform the team’s management on what is preventing him to link up with the club. Additionally, Lukumai revealed that this was the second letter for the club to receive from Kakolanya lawyers aimed at insisting them to end the contract with the former Mbeya City shot stopper. In the same token, the club denounced the information which was published recently in a local newspaper, claiming that some key officials there have embezzled billions of shillings. Putting this right was the club’s Vice-Chairman of Election Committee Siza Lyimo, who said the information was baseless since it was published with people, who do not want to see the team moving forward. “We were all surprised that how on earth billions of shillings could be stolen from the club which is facing severe economic hardships. This information is totally false and let me request those people with vivid evidence concerning that claim to come forward and tell us in details about it,” Lyimo said. Elaborating further, she revealed that this is the second time for the local tabloid to publish unfounded story about Yanga. “Whenever false stories like these are published, people who were planning to come and invest at the club fail to do so as such, we highly condemn such misleading information,” she said. She then urged team members across the country to desist from embracing information which can lead to the demoralisation of the team, while insisting to take legal action on those people who are using social media platforms to insult Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera. According to her, four people who were named by the newspaper in the embezzlement saga are the club’s Communications Officer Dismas Ten, Hussein Ndama, Clement Sanga and Yussuf Manji.