International tourist arrivals around the world grew 6 percent in 2018, totalling 1.4 billion, led primarily by the Middle East and Africa regions, according to the latest UNWTO World Tourism Barometer. Africa led with an estimated 67 million arrivals (up 7 percent), and the Asia-Pacific and Europe both recorded a 6 percent increase, welcoming 343 million and 713 million international tourists, respectively. Arrivals to the Americas were below the world average (up 3 per cent), with 217 million international arrivals in 2018, the report showed. The Middle East followed closesly accounting for 10 percent of international tourist arrivals in 2018, welcoming 64 million international tourists in 2018. “The growth of tourism in recent years confirms that the sector is today one of the most powerful drivers of economic growth and development. It is our responsibility to manage it in a sustainable manner and translate this expansion into real benefits for all countries, and particularly, to all local communities, creating opportunities for jobs and entrepreneurship and leaving no one behind,” said UNWTO secretary-general Zurab Pololikashvili. “This is why UNWTO is focussing 2019 on education, skills and job creation.”, he added. UNWTO’s long-term forecast published in 2010 predicted the 1.4 billion mark of international tourist arrivals for 2020. Yet stronger economic growth, more affordable air travel, technological changes, new businesses models and greater visa facilitation around the world have accelerated growth in recent years. Growth expected to return to historical trends in 2019 Based on current trends, economic prospects and the UNWTO Confidence Index, UNWTO forecasts international arrivals to grow 3 percent to 4 per cent next year, more in line with historic growth trends. As a general backdrop, the stability of fuel prices tends to translate into affordable air travel while air connectivity continues to improve in many destinations, facilitating the diversification of source markets. Trends also show strong outbound travel from emerging markets, especially India and Russia, but also from smaller Asian and Arab source markets. At the same time, the global economic slowdown, the uncertainty related to the Brexit, as well as geopolitical and trade tensions may prompt a “wait and see” attitude among investors and travellers. Overall, 2019 is expected to see the consolidation among consumers of emerging trends such as the quest for ‘travel to change and to show’, ‘the pursuit of healthy options’ such as walking, wellness and sports tourism, ‘multigenerational travel’ as a result of demographic changes and more responsible travel.