ENTREPRENEURS in the country have been urged to use available opportunities through various government programmes to test the quality of their products and meet market standards. Speaking after receiving a quality certificate from Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Mbalawala Women Organisation General Manager Leah Kayombo said entrepreneurs need to have the quality of their goods verified if they have to compete in the market. Ms Kayombo’s Mbinga-based organisation deals with production of alternative charcoal. “Our alternative charcoal, which is made from coal, has been tested and we have been issued with the quality certificate, it has given us the power and confidence to continue with production of this alternative source of energy which is a savior to many and an agent of environmental protection,” she said. She revealed that the project idea emanated from the need to curb environmental degradation, adding that the project also supplements government efforts to promote the use of alternative sources of energy. “For a product to be accepted in the market it should meet standards set by various government agencies and we have put that in consideration and that is why we have brought our products for testing here at TBS and we are glad that finally we have been approved,” she said. She thanked TBS and the government in general for various trainings offered and issuance of quality certificates free of charge to entrepreneurs, calling on her counterparts to come out in big numbers and grab the chance. “The government has planned to ensure that as it moves towards industrialisation, it also facilitates the growth of entrepreneurs by creating a conducive environment for them to meet all the standards,” she said. Ms Kayombo promised that her company will continue to observe TBS standards even after it has been certified, adding the raw materials for the production are abundantly available, giving hope that production will be sustained. She thanked Tancoal Energy Limited (TANCOAL) for sponsorship and Ruvuma regional government for guidance and support that enabled them to get the certificate, adding that the certification has opened business doors from beyond the regional borders. TANCOAL Chief Executive Officer James Shedd applauded the organisation for acquiring the certificate, noting that Tancoal will continue sponsoring them for further growth. Earlier, during the certificates handover ceremony, TBS Director General Dr Athumani Ngenya in a speech read on his behalf by Acting Director of Standards Lazaro Msasalaga said efforts to meet quality stands should be sustained. “It’s a must that quality standards should be observed throughout the production process, any failure will lead to the certificate revocation,” he said. Some 69 entrepreneurs were awarded with quality symbols and certificates after meeting TBS criteria between September and December last year.