During the past decades there is an enormous increase in the number of “man of God” churches in our society. Most of those preachers are fake, crooks and know how to tune their ignorant believers accordingly. Recently, I was watching a You Tube video clip and saw this Zimbabwean “Pastor”, who was going viral for talking to “God” on the phone during a church service: “Halloo, is this Heaven?” a strong man’s voice answered “Yeees” The Pastor continued “Papa God, I ‘ve a woman here, what do you ‘ve to say about?” Damn! I shouted furiously! While still confused by this awkward “Pastor”, my attention got tuned to my phone’s WhatsApp message of another Preacher who was sweating and screaming in front of his congregation. His style of preaching attracted me most; I mean of being neither cynical nor mincing words but with notable honest heart. Well, this understandable loud and clear articulating Reverend with his unavoidable, strong Nyakyusa accent is nowadays “the Tanzanian undisputed darling preacher” to many believers and even non- believers. He is none other than Mtumishi DANIEL Andendekisye MGOGO. Actually, I was attracted by Reverend Mgogo’s efforts to stop the rise of such bogus preachers in Tanzania. “Acheni kufanya Dini kuwa ujasiriamali!..” Rev. Mgogo throws his ‘dry punches,’ “...najua kwa kusema haya mimi najilipua, lakini potelea pote!..” Then he appeals, “...nataka Kanisa likae kwenye msitari!” When I called him early this week, I came to realize that his exemplary background career will definitely make everyone (and not only believers) to truly nod and accept this natural talented “man of God” and his preaching abilities. Born in 1969 in Lupepo village (in Tukuyu - Rungwe district), as a first born to Mzee Andendekisye Mgogo and Mama Enea. “We were four children, unfortunately my two younger brothers (Israel and Amenye) passed away some years ago, so now it’s only me and my younger brother (Lusekelo), whereas my Mother also passed away in 2013.” The young Daniel attended Lupepo Primary School and finished in 1983. “But, unfortunately, I wasn’t selected for secondary education, I decided to be a farmer.” After five years of establishing himself as a real farmer, at the age of 20 (in 1989), Daniel joined the precious circle of married people after his marriage to Atuganile Katira. This year, the Mgogos are celebrating their 30th wedding anniversary with 5 children (Joshua, Hekima, Haruni, Faraja and Agripa). Back to his preaching talent, by the year 1986, Daniel Mgogo became a ‘born again Christian.’ “I began preaching everywhere; vilabuni, masokoni, kwenye misiba ya wapagani etc.” A teacher from Kibisi Bible School (the late Jacob Mwaisele) saw Daniel’s preaching talent and brought him to attend a 4 years Bible school studies (between 1989 and 2001). “Again, while still there, I met another teacher (Mpeli Mwaisumbe), who convinced me to continue with further studies. I learned English for a year in 2002.” After graduation, Mgogo joined another 2 year Diploma Course on Theology until 2005, before finalizing with a degree in Theology at the Mount Meru University, in Arusha until 2008. “All these years, I continued to preach and lead several seminars at different places.” Reverend Daniel Mgogo has been and is still pouring his enormous contribution to almost every corner of our nation “I have visited almost every district” and even abroad (Kenya, Malawi, Zambia, South Africa and United States of America etc.). “It happens sometimes that for the whole month, I am on the road, preaching the ‘word of God’ to my fellow human beings.” This clever Reverend has also managed to timely grab the extra useful opportunities of fixing himself with all existing modern social media accordingly. His preaching are widely available on You Tubes, CDs, DVDs, mobile phones etc. Even our President JPM didn’t hesitate to declare his admiration towards Reverend Mgogo during his talks with some invited religious leaders at the State house this week. “Nimekuwa nikimfuatilia yule Mchungaji Mgogo ambaye amasema muache kulalamika kwamba vyuma vimekaza! Vitakaza mpaka muitike Abee!” In fact, the President finds his Motto: “Hapa Kazi Tu” to be perfectly represented through Reverend Mgogo’s preaching. Tirelessly and fearlessly, Reverend Mgogo goes for unpleasant topics; such as fighting against religious extremism, against believing in miraculous wealth, promoting education, discouraging laziness “Asiyefanya kazi’, Asile!” He criticizes those who are joblessly sitting on some streets’ corners; “watu wanakaa tu kwenye vijiwe kila siku Yanga – Simba, Yanga – Simba! Wenzako wanaocheza wanalipwa hela! Viongozi wanapiga mshiko! Wewe unabaki umekaa tu Yanga – Simba!” Also he grabs those who are trapped in a vicious cycle of gambling and betting, as well as those tending to believing in miraculous wealth. “Hapa mimi sihubiri Injili ya kukupaka Mafuta, na wala sichezeshi BIKO!” Obviously, within a short period of his preaching career Reverend Mgogo has managed to clinch his special style of transmitting the “messages” accordingly and indeed, the masses seem to accept him. This energetic, humble and honest Nyakyusa Reverend has managed to emerge at the right time for the benefit of many fellow human-beings around. Yes, Reverend DANIEL ANDENDEKISYE MGOGO is absolutely worthy to be illustrated.