DRAMA continued to rock embattled Young Africans election planned for tomorrow, after the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) called-off the polls. Chairman of the TFF Election Committee, Advocate Malangwe Ally Mchungahela, announced yesterday that the election has been put on hold until further notice, following a series of court cases filed by club members in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Mbeya and Morogoro. However, he said the committee has yet to receive any official court injunction but insisted that they felt it was wise to postpone the election until the court cases were addressed. “We had received information that the court has stopped the election after some Yanga members filed objections and in such a situation, the Sunday’s (tomorrow) election which, was to be held at Oysterbay Police Officers Mess will not go ahead,” Mchungahela said. He further said that the committee has also suspended the ongoing election campaigns for all candidates, who were vying for various posts in the election. The election was meant to fill vacant posts of club’s chairman, vice-chairman and four members of the Executive Committee. “We have decided to call off the Sunday’s election as well as the ongoing campaigns and also the live debate for candidates, which were scheduled to be aired by Azam TV today (yesterday) so as to abide by the court order,” he said. However, Mchungahela said after receiving all the documents from the court, his committee will on Monday announce the way forward. Yanga election has been dealt with various controversies with some members supporting and other against it, saying they still recognise selfdeposed Yusuf Manji as Chairman of the club. The members also argued that the election is being conducted against their club’s constitution. Manji resigned in May last year and later followed by the resignation of his Vice-Chairman, Clement Sanga and four Executive Committee members, who decided to step down on various reasons. Candidates for the Sunday’s election which has been called off were Igangula and Tiboroha for the Chairman post, while the third nominee of the post Erick Minga was disqualified due to his failure to provide vivid details about his qualifications. Likewise, Titus Osoro, Pindu Luhoyo and Salum Chota are vying for the Vice- Chairman post, while the fourth nominee Yona Kavela was disqualified for ethical reasons after he allegedly tried to vie for two different posts, which are chairman and vicechairman simultaneously. Eligible candidates to contest for the club’s Executive Committee slots are Athanas Kazighe, Ramadhan Said, Salim Rupia, Dominic Francis, Shafii Amri, Benjamin Mwakasonda, Christopher Kashiririka, Ally Msigwa, Sylvester Haule, Arafat Haji, Frank Kalokole and Said Kambi. Meanwhile, Dodoma District Court yesterday gave the green light to Yanga election, despite a petition by some members of the club objecting the election scheduled for tomorrow in Dar es Salaam, reports Ludovick Kazoka in Dodoma. A club member Immanuel Msangi along with 133 fellow members from Dodoma Region lodged a petition before Dodoma District Resident Magistrate Arnold Kirekiano yesterday afternoon, objecting the election on the grounds that Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and its Election Committee have no authority to supervise the club’s election. The Resident Magistrate adjourned the case to Monday, to enable TFF and its Election Committee to appear before the court. According to Advocate Fred Kalonga, representing the club members objecting the election, his clients lodged the petition because TFF and its Election Committee, who are supervising the election, have violated the club’s constitution. “TFF and its Election Committee have no authority to supervise the election according to the club constitution,” the advocate told reporters here after the case was adjourned to Monday.