THE dispute that surrounds the burial of Arusha-based mineral dealer, Jubilate Ulomi has taken a new turn with close relatives rejecting their sister-in-law Zainabu Rashid. The relatives have objected to the alleged deceased’s wife—Zainabu—conducting the burial, claiming that she was not legally married to their son. Jubilate died at Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi Kenya on January 15, 2019 and was later transported to Kilimanjaro region for burial. But, the deceased body has since remained at Bomang’ombe District Hospital morgue because the alleged wife, following an advice by Hai District Commissioner (DC), has taken the dispute to court to stop the funeral services. Already, Hai District Court’s Resident Magistrate Devota Msoffe has restrained relatives of the deceased from burying the body pending thorough investigations by police and doctors over the death cause. The magistrate has further restricted relatives to expose in any way the deceased’s properties until the main suit is determined to its finality. However, in his counter affidavit to oppose the case, one of the deceased relatives, Onesy Ulomi disputes Zainabu Rashid, the applicant in the matter, as the legal wife of the deceased, demanding her to prove her marriage. “The late Jubilate was my younger brother and he was not legally married to the applicant to my knowledge,” Onesy, who is one of four respondents in the dispute stated in his counter affidavit filed by Advocate Joseph Ngiloi of Makoa Attorneys. Other respondents in the dispute are Werandumi Ulomi, Awadi Ulomi and Abdulrasul Ulomi. He also stated, “Jubilate who was ex-communicated from his church for having multiple children with different women without following his spiritual guidance was reunited into the church after repentance before Reverend Chambulila of Good Samaritan Foundation and declared not to have any legal marriage.” Onesy claimed that the orders sought have no merits because they were not supported by any original civil application, which could shine proof of substantive matters to warrant issuance of such orders before the main suit is heard. “Use of this miscellaneous proviso in the legal system is attempt by the applicant to mislead and use court’s avenue to block the burial of my brother and cause further anguish to the mourners of the late Jubilate. The orders issued have got to be disregarded to avoid abuse of court process,” he stated. After issuing the contentious orders, the court ordered the matter to come for mention on February 7, 2019. In her affidavit to support the application, the applicant states, among others, that she was the legal wife of Jubilate, having lived with him as husband and wife for 12 years. She stated that they were blessed with two issues and they were temporarily and illegally separated but remained the deceased’s legal wife till his death. According to her, on January 18, 2019, both parties convened a meeting to agree on burial modalities. The applicant stated that on January 19, 2019, the respondents and their other clan members abruptly changed everything and restricted transportation of the deceased’s body to Mirerani as one of their rituals. The move heightened her doubts on the source of the urgency. She stated that Onesy ordered mortuary attendants against allowing anybody to see the deceased body, compelling her to write to the DC for his assistance. The DC advised her to seek court’s address, as his office had no mandate to resolve the matter. The applicant stated in her affidavit that there was confusion on the exact date of her husband’s death. She was told by Werandumi that her husband died on January 16, 2019, while Onesy informed her that his young brother died on January 15, 2019. In the counter affidavit, Onesy states that there was proof on the Nairobi hospital issued permit for burial that was shown to the applicant and all other valid documents pertaining to the deceased, only that the applicant refused or ignored to read them as they were written in English.