“MY first boss, believed in me, my skills and abilities, she gave me an opportunity to lead and that was a stepping stone to the rest of my career. I learned a lot from her, her commitment to the future of Tanzanian youths and the need for us, as leaders to invest in them.” Says Jamillah Mwanjisi, Head of Advocacy, Communications, Media and Campaign at Save the Children International, Somalia Country Office in Nairobi, Kenya. Jamillah’s expression is about the one and only, Dr. MINOU FUGLESANG, “a global citizen from Norway and Sweden, who has fallen in love with the people and the country of Tanzania.” Pronounced and popularly known as “MINUU,” this hard-working lady has devoted her past quarter of a century here in Tanzania, creating a now popular Initiative, Femina Hip, an education vehicle for youths about life-skills. Jamillah was among the first employees of the organization. Minou has spearheaded the building of the Femina organization to become a clearly visible work of dedication and commitment. Typically Minou in addition to her Scandinavian mentality, selflessly hand out the credits accordingly; “Femina is all about team work and co-creation. I may have had the vision in the start, but the success we have had is the creation of the team. I love working with our Femina team and I could not have done it without them.” Born in Oslo, Norway over half a century ago, to a Norwegian father (Andreas Fuglesang), while her mother (Yvonne Mew) was from Gibraltar, a British protectorate at the tip of the continent of Europe (connecting to Africa). The couple (Fuglesangs) were blessed with four children, three girls and a boy (who was born with disability). “I grew up with values of solidarity, rights and equal value to all humans, and that it is important to do good and have a purpose in life.” Minou has been in touch with Africa throughout her life. In the 70s and 80s the Fuglesang family spent years in several parts of Africa, among them; Zambia, Ethiopia and Kenya. “My father who was a supportive role model, worked for international development corporation organizations in various countries in the field of communication and education.” Fortunate enough for Minou, she also had a strong mother, who basically was the core of the family, keeping them together, but who also “volunteered in the education and social sector, teaching how to read to the illiterate, looking after orphaned and disabled children.” With such a parental background, there was no question for Minou not to devote her life to Africa. Even after almost five decades, Minou still recalls her memorable school years from the age of 10 at Lusaka Girls School in Zambia. “Here I would engage in studies, sports and drama. I loved reading and was particularly fond of cartoons and photo-novels. That is where my interest for ‘edutainment’ was born.” I believe Adam Lutta, a.k.a. Baba Tau and many others will be able to prove Minou’s point! After completing high School in Ethiopia, with great enthusiasm Minou joined University in Oslo to study Anthropology, human culture and organization around the world. Encouraged to pursue higher education, while in Stockholm, Sweden, where her (by then) future husband happened to reside. “I was determined to conduct my PhD research in Africa learning more about the continent where I had grown up.” Among places Minou conducted her study was in Lamu, Kenya. After her PhD studies, she worked with gender and development (based at the Karolinska Medical Institute) as a consultant with Swedish development corporation agency (Sida). “I was drawn into pioneering work to address adolescent sexuality in a global context, the HIV epidemic was looming and paradigms around family planning were changing.” Soon, some pilot projects were being set up, among them supporting the work of UMATI (family planning association). This created the foundation for the establishment of Femina Hip in 1999 “to foster healthy lifestyles by educating and connecting young people on sexual and reproductive health and rights and HIV/ AIDS.” The rest is a clear visible and tangible history, as this Award winning popular brand (Femina Hip) is now celebrating 20 years since it was established in 1999. As per 2017 Femina Hip’s Annual Report, a total numbers of almost 15 million youth has been reached so far, through all three (3) Femina Hip’s products; 1. Fema Magazine, 2. Fema TV Show, 3. Fema Radio Show. These have been stepping stones in building and empowering Tanzanian youths. However, Minou also believes that “long-term partnerships with donors such as what we have had with Sweden, is the key. Without their support and willingness to invest in the future of the youths of Tanzania, Femina would not be where we are today.” The victorious Rebecca Gyumi, former Fema TV Talk Show’s presenter and currently Executive Director Msichana Initiative Organisation clarifies: “To me Minou was not a just a boss, she was my mentor, my 2nd mother who spotted me and gave me an opportunity to learn under her wings.” Today, two generations of Tanzanian youths have grown up with Fema. It is Fema magazine, Fema TV show or even their participation in Fema clubs, that has positively changed their lives. “Femina to me now is like a child that has grown up, soon it will be able to move on without me. It has been an honour to serve the youths of Tanzania in a way that is both engaging and rejuvenating.” Insists Minou. My Production Co. (MMPC) spent some wonderful years (over half a decade) producing the FEMA TV Talk Show! Trust me, I can assure you that Minou is unique and also a superb Award to Tanzania. The lady is absolutely worthy to be illustrated.