SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the results his side registered on Saturday in CAF Champions League match were according to the team’s performance. Slick Simba defeated Algeria’s JS Saoura 3-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam to go top of their group D table thanks to 3 points and 3 goals for, a feat that forced Egyptians Al Ahly to settle at the second position with three points, two goals for after they demolished AS Vita 2-0 in the controversial match in Alexandria, Egypt. It was Ugandan import Emmanuel Okwi who opened the score sheet deep in the first half before the substitute Meddie Kagere netted a brace in the second half after replacing an injured captain John Bocco. Simba’s next assignment would be on January 19th this year in Kinshasa where the team will travel to face AS Vita Club of the Democratic Republic of Congo. According to Aussem Simba eye to maintain 100 per cent start of the campaign. At a post-match press briefing, Aussems said they were the best team on the pitch which made them to play attractive football, dominate possession and thereby produce best performance resulting to the big win. “Our target as already outlined in this contest is to win all our home matches to stand a good chance to enter into the semi-finals of the CAF Champions League. I am sure that no team would leave Dar es Salaam unwounded if we will continue to play before 60,000 fans inside the stadium,” Aussems said. He said his ambitious team has now shifted focus and point guns towards their next opponents AS Vita next weekend saying they want to register another remarkable outcome there. However, the Belgian tactician said the only setback on the day was John Bocco’s injury who was stretched out of the action early in the second half of the game. “Everything about the match was fine but I am just worried about Bocco injury,” he said. On his part, JS Saoura coach Nabil Neghiz claimed that their opponents (Simba) were somehow favoured by most decisions which the referee made during the encounter. “The second goal they scored was definitely a favour from the referee which completely put us out of the game, but we will recover to perform well in other fixtures,” said Neghiz. He further lauded his charges for the brilliant display of the game insisting that they played against the best team which has experienced players as far as football is concerned. He also seized the opportunity to say that Tanzania media contributed a lot to their downfall since prior to the game, they (media) underrated them. “Most media outlets published negatively about us before the match something which was disrespectful for us,” he said. He added: “During the pre-match meeting, I conceded that Simba is a big club than us since we are new. I never talked anything bad about them but I was later surprised by the way the media here quoted me.” In the same token, Simba skipper John Bocco said every player in the team is capable to perform miracles once given chance to play. “We work as a team as such the contribution of each player is very important for the success of the entire team and I hope that we will continue to work as a team,” Bocco said. Asked about the extent of his injury which saw him substituted, Bocco replied that only the team’s doctor is the one who can say much on his injury.