HOME Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola has urged religious organisations to invest m ore in education services and facilities that impart skills and k nowledge to Tanzanians necessary for building econom ic growth. “ Schools, universities, h ealth services owned by rel igious groups are offering im portant services to Tanzanians th at are vital pushing development forward. Also financial institutions l ike banks are offering financial services to Tanzanians regardless of their beliefs and h ence promote developm ent,” he said. The minister was speak - ing during th e first joint com - m emoration of Christmas day organised by the Dar es S alaam interfaith peace com - m ittee that brought together l eaders of different faiths as a sign of good w ill to each oth er. H e said religious organisations in th e country are offering serv ices that are helping in producing qualified l abour supply for contributing econom ic development and creation of em ployment opportunities for T anzanians th rough their participation in dev elopment activities. T he religious leaders are as w ell fostering peace that is v ital for any productive activ ities through giving right serm ons and interfaith understandings th at have been witnessed in th e country. H e said that the services offered by religious institutions are b oosting economic dev elopment and reducing social pressure and crime acts in th e country. The minister also asked the religious l eaders to use their pulpits to adv ocate peace at individual l evel as economic developm ent and peace are inseparab le. M inister Lugola also ask ed them to pray for President John Magufuli who is l eading the country to prosperous econom y through b uilding infrastructures, im - prov ing health services and free education for all. F or his part, Apostle B oniphace Mwamposa said th at it was the right time for T anzanians to thank God for th e leadership of President M agufuli and that some econom ic challenges are important to b e endured for the better future. “ There are some com - plaints that the economic situation is tough, I find myself tem pted to ask when it was not tough in your lifetime. I call upon Tanzanians to look ahead and bestow their hope in our leaders’ vision, next year will be more prosperous under the efforts b y President Magufuli,” said M wamposa.