I made a wish as a child. A wish that I have come to regret now. It is something that I thought would never really happen, I mean it was such a long way off that it seemed difficult to believe that it would actually come true. It was so harmless that I didn’t even think about it. As a girl growing up, I had (older) friends. So if I was ten, I had fifteen year old friends. It looked so cool at the time because I mean who wouldn’t want to be friends with a bunch of teenagers who had an amazing sense of fashion, freedom, oh yeah freedom was such a huge part of growing up. Who wouldn’t want that? My wish you ask was to grow up so that I could have the exact same things they had. Wouldn’t it have been lovely to have the forbidden freedom, fancy clothes shoes, because it came with that territory, Right? Anyway, fast forward to years later, when a thought comes to mind, “Girl you have all the time in the world”. What is time? Time is not just numbers that move on a clock. It is also the number of days, months, years, centuries that come and go. So with lying to myself that I have time, just like that my fairy godmother decides that I am not going to be in my twenties any longer. The #10yearChallenge hasn’t changed me much, but there is that feeling of being old. I’ve been trying to get my fairy godmother to stop the time, but in vain. She says that the older I get, the wiser I’ll be. I don’t know how that is supposed to be of comfort but accepting reality is the only way to go. As a women, seeing that time is catching up, what do we do about it? We hurry things up, get into (wrong) relationships, get our hearts broken and sadly sometimes repeat the process again. They are now calling it Dirty Thirty. I don’t know what’s filthy about it, but I guess it might be the fact that we are still searching for that one person. Where in heaven’s name is he? Was Cinderella in her dirty thirties when she went to the ball? When Sleeping Beauty got her kiss, perhaps she had waited for so long that she despaired. “So, we turn thirty and then what?” That’s the question I was asked recently, and at first I didn’t know what to say, but my thinking is life continues. The right person will come and whatever it is that we were looking for will be found eventually. I guess now I will concentrate and thoroughly enjoy being single before any commitment phase. So here’s to thirty, aging gracefully and beyond.