TANZANIA Gender Network Programme (TGNP) has donated equipment worth over 48m/- to Tarime District Hospital specifically to support rural women mostly nursing Gender Based Violence (GBV) inflictions also in various Dispensaries as well as Health Centres in the area. Handing over the donations here at the institution recently, TGNP Executive Director Lilian Liundi, said that they thought of that after realising that majority of the women nursing wounds as a result of GBV are mostly traced to remote areas, and can be helped in those isolated health centres. “Such women want to overcome difficulties they encounter once they attend treatment centres, as well as ensure that they are guaranteed health services including underage girls,” added Ms Liundi. She further said that her organisation was also closely working with other Anti-GBV agencies in the region including the Association of the Termination of Female Genital Mutilation (ATFGM) centre that seeks to provide protection to hundreds of girls, who are running away from Famine Genital Mutilation (FGM) She mentioned the equipment as delivery kits, and solar panels, besides conducting sensitization training to the District Social Welfare Department, which in turn will keep on building and raising their communities’ awareness to actively get involved in the fight against the menace. “Despite several initiatives by the Government as well as other private institutions against all sorts of gender based violence and discrimination including the notorious FGM mostly male-dominated communities, are not willing to reduce women as labourers, but raise their incomes,” she pointed out. In a related development, the TGNP Executive Director advised the Tarime District Council to set aside some funds in their annual budget also to help vulnerable women and girls, who are running away from their homes as a result of such acts. She equally, appealed to the communities to provide protection to hundreds of underage girls, who are continuously facing stigmatization from their parents and guardians, once they refuse to take part in the traditional initiation ceremonies. On his side, Tarime District Acting Medical Officer, Hamidu Adinan, commended the organisation for its continuous efforts and assistance to provide alms to the health centres. He said the solar power equipment will be utilised fully at the grassroots areas, which are not connected to the national power grid and operating as mere drugs’ stores. “We urge other organisations operating here to emulate the TGNP initiative and support the District Hospital in the ongoing fight against all sorts of gender violence, this is because the government’s resources are limited and cannot cater for each and every individual’s need,” he added.