Two local players have entered milestone after qualifying to play kabaddi at a professional level in Indian league. It is the first Tanzanians to reach that level due to the fact kabaddi is trying to win a ground in Tanzania. The qualified players are set to feature in the newly introduced Indo International Premier Kabaddi, inaugural league that was launched recently by New Kabaddi Federation (NKF) of India scheduled to start in March this year. Abdallah Nyoni, the Chairman of Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) informed the ‘Daily News’ that the association was delighted with the achievement of its players to reach that milestone. “This is step forward towards the games development, we are pleased to have professional players for the first time in the country, We are optimist that we can go even further,” he said. Nyoni added that the two professional players will be unveiled soon after completing official formalities. Once there they will join other world’s top players in the league. He said that they will register in different teams ahead of the league’s start in March. “The kabaddi pro league will feature eight teams in its inaugural edition. They are Bengaluru Rhinos, Chennai Cheetahs, Delhi Dumars, Telangana Bulls, Patna Panthers, Haryana Hurricanes, Mumbai Marathas and Kolkata Tigers.” “With the motto: Race To Olympics! NKF has launched Indo International Premier Kabaddi League (IIPKL) which will commence from March 2019.” He added that the dream of having Kabaddi in the Olympics is yet to be achieved, however, with such unimaginable growth, fans are destined to witness Kabaddi becoming a worldwide sport. Backed by the support of many ardent Kabaddi players around the world, Nyoni adds that NKF aims to diversify the game from the boundary of Indian culture to the international level. Foreign players from New Zealand, Poland, Argentina, Tanzania, Australia, Norway, United Kingdom, Canada and USA, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Mexico, Mauritius, Kenya, Iraq, Denmark will be participating with each franchise having 2 to 3 international players. He said that the league format will be a double-round robin with the first half of the tournament held in the initial days of March and the other half held after World Cup Kabaddi 2019 (Melaka, Malaysia).