JUST a day after Finance and Planning Minister Dr Philip Mpango released a state of the national economy outline, academicians yesterday anticipated that the situation would get better this year. The latter were separately reacting to the report of the national economy which outlines a number of achievements in controlling inflation as well as economic growth. Their expectations are based largely upon ongoing construction of several socio-economic infrastructures, some of which have been completed in various parts of the country. A lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, Dr Benson Bana, commented that he expected that in 2019 the economy would continue to grow speedily because of a couple of development projects currently being undertaken. “It’s my hope that as the country we will uphold what we have achieved in 2018 and move even far,” he said, but cautioned that it was possible only if Tanzanians across all sectors worked hard and produced more. To excel more, Dr Emmanuel Mallya from the Open University of Tanzania (OUT) advised that the government continues to craft good policies for all economic sectors, for facilitating more production. “If the political atmosphere continues to remain calm, the government will be collecting more revenues and therefore the economy will prosper,” Dr Mallya remarked. Another UDSM’s scholar, Prof Haji Semboja, noted that Tanzania’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 7.1 per cent was high, but more efforts were needed to reach between 8 and 10 per cent as stated in the 2025 Development Vision. “If you look at the 2018/19 budget, the economic situation will be good in 2019,” Prof Semboja said. He further explained that in 2019, public expenditure will rise because the government was investing in big projects which will in future make a big impact in the country’s economy. Dr Mpango explained that the economy was expected to continue growing in 2019 following the big investment in economic facilitating infrastructures such as roads, bridges and Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). “We are expecting that the newly-constructed industries and those still under construction will further contribute to national income by facilitating production, particularly in agriculture through adding value,” the minister said at a media briefing session in Dodoma last Sunday. He said inflation would continue remaining at single digit of 5 per cent during this year. For the private sector, he gave an assurance that efforts were ongoing to create a better investment and business environment, a move which would attract more participation of the private sector in driving the economy.