Month of January has distinctive historical happenings in Africa that need to be documented for the next generation to know where we came from. What do we have in Tanzania for the historic month of January? History should be told like it is; we have the good side worthy praising and the other side deserving condemnation. Let me send you back to 13th January 1963 where the first coup in Africa was staged in Togo ousting the legitimate government of President Sylivanus Olympio, a good friend of President Nyerere. It is said Mwalimu Nyerere was so much touched with this coup that took the life of President Olympio. Surely it must have been a wrong footing to the wind of change for Africa where young nations were emerging from colonial administration. Remember that time; Africa was just healing from the shock of the murdering of the first Prime Minister of Congo, Patrice Lumumba in the same January 17, 1961. If I may ask you, where were you on that Sunday 12th January 1964 exactly one year after the Togo’s coup 1963? For those who were already in this universe, can remember particularly when this is one of the historic monuments of Tanzania. The Zanzibar obnoxious sultanate oligarchy was overthrown on that day! That time I was old enough as student enjoying my December school holidays somewhere in Muheza just counting days before going back to school at St, Andrews’ College Minaki in Kisarawe. I was already armed with my school fees remission certificate of 900 shillings endorsed by my Muheza Divisional Executive Officer. At that time, Tanga was very much culturally associated with Zanzibar and mostly the Radio Zanzibar’s reception was easily beamed to the coastal plains of Tanga, but on that day the kind of music and broadcasting was very different. The marshal music with staccato of unfamiliar sounds was heard from Radio Zanzibar. What could this be? My grandfather was a retired teacher who had stayed in Zanzibar at Kiungani and Mkunazini as a UMCA Catechist. He was very familiar with the Zanzibar politics and was quick to point out to us that it appears Sultan Jamshid bin Abdullah has been overthrown by unknown people when he actually heard someone claiming to be Field Marshal John Okello making all the dubious orders. Field Marshal Okello was a Ugandan who happened to be in Zanzibar at that time and just seized the opportunity. He just filled the vacuum before the real executors of the coup showed up. It should be remembered that 1961 to 1964 were the years of independence era for the East African countries and no wonder Mwalimu Nyerere was ready to delay Tanzania’s independence so as to create a federation of all those other countries which never was! Following the overthrow of the Sultanate government in that January, it appeared as if something was brewing in the East African countries particularly on the threat and the behavior of Field Marshal Okello who broke loose and ended up to be disowned by all countries for fear of creating disturbances. His tattered background of leading labour strikes in his native land Uganda together with precedent set by the unruly Togo soldiers had created more fear to young African nations to accept him. As I was packing for going back to school the unbelievable happened that the schedule of our train was temporary suspended from Tanga to Dar es Salaam due to undisclosed reasons. Tanganyika Broadcasting Corporation suspended its normal scheduled programmes but went on playing marshal music. However it unfolded that, soldiers of the Tanganyika Rifles (TR) formerly Kings African Rifles went on mutiny on 19th January, 1964. They were demanding rapid Africanisation and other unspecified privileges. It was a chaotic week for East Africa. From Zanzibar the Sultanate oligarchy was overthrown, while in Tanganyika, unruly TR soldiers were on mutiny that was followed by unrest to Kenya where it was described as Lanet unrest; as a minor disciplinary incident before spreading to Uganda. The mutiny that was led by junior NCOs with their leader Sgt Francis Hingo Ilogi, were on the rampage in Dar es Salaam city, looting and beating people particularly the Europeans who were still in the regimental systems. By that time there were a few Europeans in the Prisons Service that included Mr. J.P Bradly and G.Caricati, the Commandant of the Prison Training College Ukonga and an Italian Expert in Tailoring of the Ukonga Industry respectively were roughed up. After night of carousing the soldiers would drift back to the Colito barracks stupefied; no wonder they were easily disarmed by the Royal Marine Commando led by Brigadier Douglas summoned from Aden later assisted by the Nigerian Army troops. President Julius Nyerere (right) shakes hands with Major Elisha Jairo Kavana on January 28, 1964 while Brigadier Sam Hagai Sarakikya (centre) looks on soon after the pair had been sworn in at the State House in Dar es Salaam soon after the mutiny. ( Photo by the courtesy of the then Ministry of Information Publication on Coverage of H.E President’s Tour after the mutiny) All the mutineers were rounded up and sent to Ukonga and Keko Remand Prisons to wait for the court marshal where the name of Sgt Francis Hingo Ilogi was very prominent in the whole case. Most of those who were found guilty were handed long sentences imprisonment and Hingo Ilogi was sent to Dodoma to work on an escape cage for quarrying. But what I will live to remember was the counseling that the first Commissioner of Prisons Mr. O.K.Rugimbana had to give to Sgt Ilogi at the Remand Prison Keko. Rugimbana is reported to have told Ilogi that he (Rugimbana) was also a sergeant, fought in Second World War, before demobilization. He also told him that mutiny was the highest demonstration of indiscipline in an army and a shameful act on the part of soldiers. He told him that mutiny has shamed the nation. He candidly told Ilogi that he was either too foolish to appreciate the terrible consequences of mutiny on public order and safety of civilians or was too evil to endorse such an undertaking. However, a happy ending was that African Army commander, Brigadier General Mirisho Sarakikya was appointed, and TR was disbanded and Peoples’ Defence Forces was created.