The Court of Appeal has refused the invitation of a local company that imports expensive cars, Arusha Art Limited, declining to hear the appeal lodged by Alliance Insurance Corporation Limited, and challenging the former’s payments of over 1.3bn/- in a fire insurance deal. This followed the decision by Justices Augustine Mwarija, Shaban Lila and Mwanaisha Kwariko to “overrule” two grounds of objections the company had presented to block the determination of the appeal. They held that such grounds of objections lacked merits. During the hearing session, the counsel for the company, as respondent in the appeal, had contended that the notice and memorandum of appeal have been drawn and lodged in court by an unqualified person, contrary to the Advocates Act and the Civil Procedure Code. Alternatively, the advocate had submitted that the two legal documents lodged in court by Ensafrica Tanzania Limited Attorneys do not mention in legible characters as in the present names or initials thereof and present surnames, nationality of partners in the firm against the Business Names (Registration) Act. In their ruling delivered in Arusha City recently, however, the justices of the appeals court agreed with the submissions presented by counsel for the insurance firm, the appellant, that the grounds of objections raised could not raise any pure point of law to be determined as required. They said that there was no dispute that although both notice and memorandum of appeal were shown to have been drawn by the legal company, a juristic person, the documents have been signed and could not have been signed by a juristic but a natural person. “The issue whether or not the person who signed them is an unqualified person or not is a matter which requires evidence to ascertain. In the circumstances, the point raised by the respondent’s counsel does not qualify as a pure point of law,” the justices ruled. With regard to the Business Names (Registration) Act, the justices were of the opinion that its application to drawing and filing of a notice and memorandum of appeal was misconceived, as such law, in particular, section 23 of the Act applied to registration of business names. “As argued by the appellant’s counsel, it is the Court of Appeal Rules which govern the process of preparation and filing of the said documents... “....Even if the respondent’s counsel had meant that the Ensafrica, the firm of the appellant’s counsel had contravened that provision, the contention would as well require to be ascertained. That would also disqualify the point raised by the respondent’s counsel from being a pure point of law,” they concluded. Alliance Insurance Corporation Limited was dissatisfied with the decision of the High Court, Arusha District Registry following a suit lodged by Arusha Art Limited, claiming as total sum of 1,318,338,907/-. Such claim arose from a fire outbreak at the company’s premises. The fire destroyed various properties of the company, thus occasioning loss to it. Arusha Art Limited held an insurance policy with Alliance Insurance Corporation Limited, with the latter having insured its properties against fire.