At least 19 people, who were suffering from kidney ailment, underwent kidney transplant operation in the country between July and December, last year, a move that helped the government to save 2.24bn/-. This was revealed on Wednesday by Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu. She said the number of people, who underwent kidney transplant, had reached 28 since the service was introduced in the country in 2017. “Health facilities performing kidney transplant operations in the country have helped the government to save 2.24bn/-, which would have been used to send patients overseas for treatment,” said the minister, while presenting her ministry’s annual report before the Parliamentary Committee on Social Services and Community Development. Ms Mwalimu pointed out that, while the government had incurred substantial expenses to send a patient overseas for a kidney transplant operation, such an operation would be performed at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) at between 20m/- and 30m/- per a patient. She noted that for a period beginning July to December, MNH had attended to 30,189 patients, adding that its intensive care unit (ICU) served at least 960 patients, who were in a critical condition. Ms Mwalimu further said that MNH had performed a cochlear implant to 11 children for that particular period, noting that the number of children, who had benefited from the service had reached 21 since its establishment in 2017. “Previously, the service was not available in the country forcing people suffering from hearing impairment to seek medical care overseas at between 80m/- and 100m/- per patient,” she said. Ms Mwalimu explained that cochlear implant service was presently available at MNH at between 35m/- and 40m/- per person. Responding to members of the Parliamentary Committee, Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, said Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) had performed lifesaving operations on 521 patients between July and December, last year.