NATIONAL Social Security Fund (NSSF) has reintroduced withdrawal benefit to employees losing jobs or having their contracts expired before attaining the official retirement age. The new development follows a directive by President John Magufuli to the pension funds when he met leaders of the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) and its allied associations, recently. At the State House meeting in Dar es Salaam to discuss the formulae for calculating the retirement benefits were also the Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF), NSSF and Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE). The Head of State directed that employees losing their jobs before the age of 60 be given unemployment benefits. NSSF Implementation Manager Cosmas Sasi told reporters in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that the payments will be disbursed after all the contributions have been thoroughly verified. “All members who are working in temporary jobs like construction in the temporaryprojects can withdraw their savings with a little interest and those with temporary contracts in various companies can receive their unemployment benefits upon termination of their contracts,” he said. According to Mr Sasi verification before payment will be conducted within 30 days after application forms are presented to NSSF and doubted applications, payment will be subjected to another investigation within 30 days. “NSSF is well prepared to conduct the verification within the required time to enable people to get their savings on time… we invite all people with the legal criteria for the payment,’’ he added. Mr Sasi clarified that after the savings were disbursed to the claimant, a member will equally receive an additional percentage as interest whose rate however he did not disclose. For employees who were working in professional institutions and contributed to NSSF for over 18 months, he said, they will receive 33.3 per cent of their last basic salary prior to their termination for six consecutive months to help them as they seek for another job. He added that those who had contributed for less than 18 months prior to losing the jobs will receive 50per cent. Commenting on the disbursement of pension to retirees, Education and Public Relations Manager Lulu Mengele said NSSF will suspend benefits of beneficiaries who will have not submitted their verification documents until the end of this month. “Retirees who have not been verified should submit their documents in our regional offices for verification,’’ she said.