Deputy Minister for Information, Culture Arts and Sports, Juliana Shonza is expected to flag off the maiden Mirerani Tanzanite marathon to be staged in Simanjiro District this Sunday. The Chairman of the event’s organizing committee Charles Mnyalu stated here that the Deputy Minister has confirmed her participation and that the preparations are in place, whereas in addition to cash prizes, the winners will also be awarded gemstone ornaments. At least 2,000 athletes are expected to participate in the maiden race, to raise dust at the foot of Mirerani Hills of Simanjiro. Covering 21 kilometres, the essentially ‘Half marathon,’ has so far attracted 2000 potential athletics from both Tanzania, neighbouring countries and overseas, who will be racing against in the windswept Mirerani Hills next Sunday, becoming the first sporting event to curtain raise the year. Runners of the main 21 km half marathon will be flagged off from CCM grounds in the Zaire township of Mirerani towards Kilimanjaro Airport, via the Mirerani wall route and back, while the mini 5 km fun race will also start from the same venue but finish at ‘Magufuli Gate.’ The race manager Alfredo Shahanga said the race will cost nearly 100m/-and this will cover all technical undertakings including initial preparations, awards and prizes. The first winners of both Men and Women Categories of the main 21km half marathon will each pocket 700,000/- the second winner 400,000/-, the third winners 300,000/-, the fourth winners, 200,000/- each and the fifth 100,000/-, and the 6th get 75, 000/- . The winners who finish from 7th to the 10th positions, in both categories, will each pocket 50,000/-, while on the other hand all participants are to get medals for their trouble. “The Marathon also targets to provide opportunities for foreigners to see for themselves how the rare blue gemstones are produced and possibly also invest in the industry here,” he said. Shahanga added that, for the youth and children, the first to the 10th winners, are to get school bags, education materials and related equipment. “We want the race to put Mirerani in international limelight because at the moment the country needs more mineral processing investors in the hills here,” said Chaula adding that, there is also the need to form a soccer league for Mirerani.