THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday dismissed demands by lawyers for CHADEMA National Chairman, Freeman Mbowe and Tarime Urban Member of Parliament (MP) Ester Matiko over speedy determination of appeal on cancellation of bail. Principal Resident Magistrate Wilbard Mashauri, instead, directed Professor Abdallah Safari, the advocate for the two accused, who are facing sedition charges alongside seven others to present his demands to the Court of Appeal where the appeal is pending. The Magistrate adjourned the criminal trial to January 17, 2019, for another mention to wait the outcome of the appeal preferred by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Before adjournment of the case, Prof Safari had asked two questions to the prosecution in relation to the appeal in question. He first wished to know whether the prosecution had filed a certificate of urgency to have the appeal determined without delay and, secondly, if not why. Principal State Attorney Paul Kadushi, for the prosecution, was, however, quick to respond. The trial attorney told the court that the defence counsel had no mandate whatsoever to question the prosecution over the matter. He was of the view that the prosecution’s duty was to file the appeal documents and leave other processes to the court to be done as per the law and procedure. He further submitted that the decision which is the subject of the appeal was given by the High Court and not the Kisutu Court. According to him, it was illogical for the advocate to present such a concern before the lower court instead to raising the same before the Appeals Court seized with the matter. On November 23, 2018, Magistrate Mashauri ordered Mbowe and Matiko to be remanded in custody after cancelling their bail in the sedition criminal trial they are facing, after finding them contemptuous for violating bail conditions, including failure to attend court sessions as required. Immediately thereafter on the same day, Advocate Peter Kibatala, for the two leaders, hurriedly filed an appeal to the High Court to oppose such court action. However, when was called upon for hearing, the appeal was greeted with a set of preliminary objections presented by the prosecution. The grounds of objections were with the effect that the appeal was incompetent for want of proper notice of appeal, complete records and incompetent grounds of appeal.