ALL precautionary measures are in place to protect the environment during construction of the mega hydropower dam Stiegler’s Gorge, the National Environment Management Council (NEMC) has assured. According to NEMC Director General Dr Samuel Gwamaka, everything is under control for the smooth execution of the ambitious power project. “We are determined to ensure that all water sources in Morogoro, Iringa, Dodoma, Njombe, Mbeya and Ruvuma regions are well protected and conserved,” Dr Gwamaka told reporters in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. He described Stiegler’s Gorge hydroelectric project as vital in building a strong industrial economy, adding that all essential measures have been taken to protect all sources of Rufiji River. He said NEMC, a stakeholder in development activities, is committed to ensure that industrial development in the country does not have negative impacts on environment. “NEMC is keen in ensuring that all the projects that have connection to water sources are environmentally friendly. We make sure that water sources are protected and sustained to benefit current and future generations,” NEMC boss said. He said the council will continue to uphold all laws and regulations dealing with environment protection as a way of enabling the country to achieve the vision 2025 of becoming the middle income and industrialised economy. “NEMC commends various measures being taken by the government under President John Magufuli to build the industrial economy, which is key to job creation,” he said. Dr Gwamaka urged institutions, authorities and other stakeholders as well as members of the public to collaborate with NEMC in ensuring that environment is protected. Vice President’s Office last year ordered all directors in towns, municipals and cities to earmark water sources and ensure that they are firmly protected. The VP Office directed all the local government councils countrywide to identify all water sources and rivers for protection. Stiegler’s Gorge project, apart from making electricity blackout history in the country is also expected to bring major social and economic reforms with 2,100 megawatts produced.