When the newly built diving and rescue centres were opened in Mkoani district, South of Pemba, the event triggered joy among residents, including students living close to the coastal area. The reason is clear, “Many lives will be saved because lack of preparedness for emergency and disaster rescue missions has resulted in loss of lives and property, ” says Mwajuma Khamis, a resident in the area. Another resident, Yussuf Juma believes that their loved ones who died when their vessel capsized in 2011 would have been saved if the country had proper ‘disaster preparedness and rescue response’ department. Fishermen who always go out fishing say many accidents occur in the sea, but the biggest challenge is lack or shortage of rescue measures. “We have saved people who get involved in marine accidents, but it is a fact that many accidents are unreported because the sea is huge,” says Hassan Kombo, a fisherman. Kombo argues that poor response in rescue operations which include delays, lack of facilities and lack of skills to save lives result in many deaths. “We normally offer a helping hand in rescue missions, but we lack skills and equipment. It is good that the government is now improving disaster and rescue department,’’ he says. According to reports from government’s probe teams after the big fatal marine accidents of MV Bukoba in 1996, MV Spice Islander in 2011, MV Skagit in 2012 and lately MV Nyerere in Septemberparedness and rescue response, among other reasons, is to blame for many deaths after the accidents. Consequences of the past marine accidents remain huge with many children becoming orphans and without any assurance of proper care and support. Some of the victims of Zanzibar accidents are developed mental problems, while some children are living with psychological problems. While the government, development partners and ordinary people take difference measures to minimize marine accidents, improving emergency and disaster management and rescue response are being emphasized in all reports written after fatal accidents. It is due to that fact that the government last year (2018) took to start improving security and rescue services in Zanzibar, which is part of the implementation of the government’s strategy to ensure that the citizens, visitors and tourists and their properties are always safe. Under the ‘Safe City Project (SCP),’ of USD 2895 million, a total of 877 CCTV cameras were installed in the Stone Town and the nearby areas along with other safety devices and equipment such as drones were purchased for the purpose of improving patrolling operations. The project was inaugurated on October 3rd, 2018. Another component of the project costing USD 7.2 million was geared towards improving ‘diving and rescue operation’, inaugurated on January 2nd, 2019 at the Mkoani Port in Pemba include construction of three diving and rescue centres, purchase of different rescue gears and new boats that are meant for rescue services at the sea. At the launch of the projects, President Ali Mohamed Shein who officiated the event, said his government wants to ensure that people’s lives are saved by preventing the accidents and also by improved ‘emergency and management and rescue services. “We are happy to have the boats and equipment, a crucial step in our bid to ensure rescue services are quick in case of any disaster in the sea,” Dr Shein said after the launch of the project aiming at making Zanzibar have modern rescue centres in all districts. It was unclear about statistics on loss of properties and people annually in marine accidents, but fishers and other users of the sea estimate that many accidents occur in the sea every week involving mainly small cargo and fishing boats. Minister responsible for Regional Administration, local government and special department, Mr Haji Omar Kheri said the ‘modern boats and rescue centre’ will be under the management of coast guard unit/ also known as anti smuggling unit – Kikosi Maalum cha Kuzuia Magendo (KMKM). “While we plan to have ‘Diving and rescue centres’ in all districts, under this project we have started by establishing the centres with modern equipment at Kibweni (Head quarters) and Nungwi on Unguja Island, and Mkoani in Pemba Island,” Kheri said. He said that ongoing efforts to improve security in Zanzibar particularly tourists’ areas like Stone Town and disaster management and response fall under the implementation of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) manifesto of 2015/2020 and national vision. Kheri says “We are committed to ensure all people including visitors and tourists in Zanzibar enjoy their stay. While the modern speed boats with equipment are important in sea patrol and rescue mission, under the SCP, fixing of CCTV cameras will help keep the city safe.” According to the Permanent Secretary (PS) - Ministry of State (Regional administration and Special Unit), Ms Radhia Rashid Haroub said implementation of the projects is done by the government, but the issue of security and prevention of accidents remains in hands of people. “You (ordinary citizens) are responsible to keep our country safe from any threat and also you have to stop accidents by refusing to overload or any violation of transport safety regulations in sea, air and land,” said the PS. Strengthening relations between ‘Zanzibar Maritime Authority (ZMA)’ and the ‘Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA),’ along with introduction of ‘National Search and Rescue (SAR) plan’ last year to stakeholders of sea and air transport were other important move for disaster preparedness and to ensure that accidents are avoided or minimized in the East African region. Under Article 112 (1) (d) of the Treaty for the Establishment of the EAC, the Partner States undertake to, among, other things, co-operate in the management of the environment and agree to take necessary disaster preparedness, management protection and mitigation measures especially for the control of natural and man-made disasters, which include oil spills, bio-hazards, floods, earthquakes, marine accidents, drought and bushfires. At the SAR training workshop held here in 2017, participants from the Aviation, sea transport authorities, Police, fishers, Ministries responsible for transport, local/regional administration council officers and rescue & disaster departments, were briefed on procedures and the execution of search and rescue operations. SAR is about the ‘search for and provision of aid’ to people who are in distress or imminent danger and that there is need to enhance the capacity of respective institutions to ensure they perform effectively in saving lives and property during search and rescue process. Mr Haji Shomar ‘sea surveillance’ officer says that modern facilities are required in getting prepared for search and rescue operations in the region mainly when accidents occur during bad weather. Director of ZMA, Mr Abdalla Kombo says that increasing use of air and sea transport necessitates the need for disaster preparedness which should include sharing of experiences in addressing the challenges in search and rescue operations. Ms Stella Joshua Katondo from ‘Safety and Environment’ department- Ministry for Works, Transport and Communications said “Getting prepared for an emergency is important and demands knowing what to do in a variety of difficult situations. Search and rescue is an international obligation and countries, like members of the EAC, have to incorporate it into their policy and plans.” Mr Mohamed Ngwali participant from the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA) said getting proper information about weather is also important in minimizing disasters, “We should realise that incidents at sea and in the air pose a risk to human lives and property in every region of the world.” He said that rescue organizations, weathers forecasts and other stakeholders in the region should promote maritime and aeronautical networking and coordination for effectiveness and efficiency. At the end of the workshop participants concluded by agreeing to promotion of public safety campaigns; campaigns to ensure the support of government decision-makers; media assistance; to enhance cooperation between SAR services and other State agencies. It was further agreed that there is an urgent need to set up Rescue Centres at different Sea Ports including in neighbouring countries and along the lake region and that the ‘Rescue Centres’ will keep a constant watch on Shipping and aircraft movements.