GIANTS Young Africans and Simba are both in Zanzibar ready to commence their campaigns in this year’s Mapinduzi Cup tournament, which kicked off on New Year at the Amani Stadium. Yanga will launch their campaign today when they face Zanzibar’s KVZ, while Simba will be in action tomorrow against Chipukizi at the same venue. The Jangwani Street lads will go into today’s match minus several key players as Yanga’s Congolese tactician, Mwinyi Zahera said that they have decided not to deploy a full squad in the annual tournament because they intend to rest most of their key players. Zahera said they have been forced to rest some of their keys players to avoid fatigue as their main focus is to excel in the Mainland Premier League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). “Yanga must make plans and targets in things which will benefit the club at the end, because if you decide that you want to win each and every title or accolades, you might as well lose all of them,” said Zahera. Yanga, who are currently at the summit of the Mainland Premier League with 50 points from 18 games, massive ten and 17 points ahead of closer competitors Azam and Simba respectively, have four tournaments ahead of them which are the premier league, ASFC, SportPesa Challenge Cup and Mapinduzi Cup. The team will compete in the tournament without leading goal scorer, Herieter Makambo, playmaker, Ibrahim Ajib, Amis Tambwe, Feisal Salum and Kelvin Yondani. And, the tournament will provide opportunity for fringe players such as Haji Mwinyi, Said Makapu, Deus Kaseke, Matheo Athony, Maka Edward and Juma Abdul to make their mark in the team. Yanga, who travelled to Zanzibar for the tournament under the tutelage of Assistant Coach, Noel Mwandila will have a tough task against their opponents from the Zanzibar’s topflight league in group B of the tournament. KVZ will certainly be aiming at upsetting the giants. After their opener against KVZ today, Yanga will face another tough test on Saturday, when they clash against the tournament’s title holders and their closer competitor in the Mainland Premier League, Azam FC. Then, Yanga will lock horns with Malindi FC on January 7th this year and wind up their group campaign against Jamhuri two days later. Yanga competitors -- Simba and Azam have announced that they will feature their full squads in the tournament, which is part of activities to mark the 55th anniversary of Zanzibar Revolution. The two consecutive winners, Azam FC under their Dutchman Hans van der Pluijm kicked off their title defence campaign last night, when they faced Jamhuri FC at the Amani Stadium. In the opening match on Tuesday KVZ and Malindi battled to a barren draw. This year’s Mapinduzi Cup will engage nine teams from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, which are KVZ, KMKM, Jamhuri, Chipukizi, Mlandege and Malindi from Zanzibar, while teams from Mainland are Azam, Simba and Yanga. The teams have been pooled in two groups A and B. Group A comprise Chipukizi, Mlandege, KMKM and Simba, while group B has KVZ, Malindi, Jamhuri, Azam and Yanga. According to the tournament organising committee, matches will be played at Amani Stadium in Unguja from group stage to semifinals and the final will be held at the Gombani Stadium in Pemba. Winner of this year’s Mapinduzi Cup will bag 15m/- compared to the previous edition in which, winner bagged 10m/- whereas the runner up will collect 10m/- which has doubled from the previous tournament prize. Azam won last year’s title after a 4-3 spot kick victory over URA of Uganda. Azam netted four spot kicks while URA managed three shots.