DEFENCE lawyers yesterday asked the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam to dismiss the 1bn/- economic sabotage and abuse of position charges and acquit all accused persons in the trial surrounding implementation of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) Line Project. Dr Rugemeleza Nshala and Mr Jeremia Mtobesya, for the accused persons, told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba when the case came for mention that the prosecution has failed to prosecute the case since the arraignment of their clients more than three years ago. It all started when the prosecutor with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Magela Ndimbo requested the court to adjourn the trial to another date as the prosecution’s file of the case was still with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for his decision. He informed the court that the latest information he received from the DPP’s office was with effect that the prosecutors were in final touches of going through the file in question and would soon deliver their decisions on how to go about the matter. However, the lawyers came up in arms and presented submissions, requesting the court to refuse to grant any other adjournment of the trial as the prosecution provided no tangible reason. They pressed the prosecution to prosecute the accused or the court to dismiss the charges. Dr Nshala submitted that the court’s refusal to adjourn the case was warranted because the prosecution has refused to commit the accused into trial by conducting investigations for three years since March 14, 2016 when their clients were arraigned for the first time in connection with the charges. “The prosecution has endlessly advanced reasons that investigations are incomplete. The investigations have not been completed for three years and it has never been said when it will be completed,” the advocate submitted. He added, “This court has numerously directed the prosecution to complete the investigations, but they have refused. The prosecutions have sought and obtained adjournments for more than 124 times. This renders the same to be unreasonable at all.” The seasoned advocate concluded, “The court now must protect itself as an independent organ. It must refuse the adjournment and compel the prosecution to prosecute the case today (yesterday). Upon failure, the court must dismiss the charges and acquit the accused forthwith.” Mr Mtobesya joined hands with his co-counsel and forcefully submitted that the nature of offences their clients are facing did not need three years for the prosecution to complete investigations, as the mode of collecting evidence was not that complicated. According to him, for the past three years, the prosecution have been advancing reasons for the adjournment as incomplete investigations and the file being with the DPP for decision. He reminded that the court could grant adjournment in terms of section 248 (1) of CPA on reasonable ground. Having so submitted, the prosecutor requested for time to respond to the defence’s arguments. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the trial to February 2, 2019. The accused in the trial include former Director General with Reli Assets Holding Company (RAHCO), Engineer Benhadard Tito, Kanji Mwinyijuma, a businessman and Emanuel Massawe, ex- RAHCO Company Secretary. They are charged with conspiracy, abuse of position and occasioning over 1bn/- loss in transactions relating to upgrade of the railway. The accused allegedly conspired to commit an offence under the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act between September 1, 2004 and September 30, 2015. The prosecution alleges that on February 27, 2015, at RAHCO offices in Ilala District, while discharging his duties, being the Managing Director of the Company, Eng Tito intentionally abused his position by procuring Rothschild (South Africa) Proprietary Limited. According to the prosecution, such company was procured as transaction advisor for the project to upgrade the central line corridor railway in Tanzania by single source method without a prior approval of RAHCO Tender Board, an act which was in violation of Procurement Act.