Bank of Tanzania (BoT) has transferred Bank M Tanzania’s assets and liabilities to Azania Bank Limited due to its critical liquidity problems. The BoT decision announced by the Deputy Governor Dr Bernard Kibese in Dar es Salaam yesterday is meant to protect depositors’ interests that could have been or were likely to be prejudiced. “The BoT decision is intended to protect customers’ deposits after Bank M failure to meet its obligations including payment of maturing obligations,” he said adding that will make Azania Bank Limited one of the five largest banks in the country. He added after transferring assets and liabilities, Azania Bank Limited which was medium tier II bank will become one of the five largest banks in the country behind NMB, CRDB, NBC and Standard Chartered. Currently, BoT, Azania Bank Limited and other parties to this acquisition are working on the necessary legal documentations to enable smooth execution of the transaction. “Depositors and other creditors of Bank M will be advised in due course on how and when will commence to access banking services through Azania Bank Limited, while all borrowers are required to continue paying their maturing obligations as per terms and conditions of the agreements,” he said. The 10 years’ bank M Tanzania had its assets grown to over 1tri/- and in 2016 its annual profits jumped to over 16bn/- before sliding to 12.1bn/- in 2017, Dr Kibese said. He said before arriving at the decision, BoT was closely monitoring Bank M operations for over a year. In exercising of its powers under Section 56(1) (g) (iii) of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act, 2006, the BoT took administration of Bank M Tanzania with effect from 2nd August last year following determination that bank had critical liquidity problems and was unable to meet its maturing obligations. He said in just few months since when the Bank M was put under administration, BoT has managed to recover over 42bn/- from borrowers out of the total 618bn/- lent to customers. Following the takeover, normal business operations of Bank M were suspended for a period of 90 days to allow BoT to determine appropriate resolution option. The period was extended for 60 days effective from November last year to allow more time for assessment of financial affairs of Bank M, which was an important aspect in the determination of the resolution option. “The BoT wishes to inform the public that, as per its mandate as provided for under Section 59(4) of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act, 2006, the process of determining resolution option for Bank M has been completed,” he noted. After considering various resolution options, the central bank adopted acquisition of assets and liabilities of Bank M by another bank as the resolution option with effect from 2nd January 2019. Consequently, as mandated under Section 58(2)(h) of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act, 2006, BoT has, under acquisition by operation of the law, decided to transfer all assets and liabilities of Bank M Tanzania to Azania Bank Limited.