THE Court of Appeal has upheld 20m/- compensation and life imprisonment sentence imposed on the appellant, Hussein Hassan, for sodomising a sixyear-old boy and infecting him with HIV/Aids. Justices Stella Mugasha, Richard Mziray and Jacobs Mwambegele reached to such a conclusion after dismissing the appeal Hassan had lodged to fault the findings of the High Court of Tanzania and that of the District Court. “We are satisfied that the appellant was properly convicted and the sentence meted out to him was the minimum provided by law. The appeal has no merit and it is dismissed in its entirety,” they declared. During hearing of the case, the appellant, who is a resident of Mbeya, had categorically denied to have committed the offence, alleging that the evidence of five prosecution witnesses called to support the charge was fabricated and hearsay after his love relationship with the victim’s mother had gone sour. In their judgment, however, the justices of the Court of Appeal pointed out that after earnestly going through the judgment of the two courts they were of the settled view that there was no truth in the appellant’s complaint that the evidence of the victim was fabricated. “The lower courts carefully weighed the evidence of (the boy). Both of them were satisfied that he was a credible and believable witness. They believed that he told the truth that he was sodomised and that it was the appellant, who did it,” they stressed. The Justices also appreciated that under section 127(7) of the Evidence Act, if found to be a credible witness, the complainant’s evidence could alone ground a conviction, as true evidence in cases of such nature had to come from the victim. “On that basis, therefore, the appellant’s argument that the case against him was fabricated after he had been in love relationship with the mother of the victim is an afterthought, hence, untenable,” they ruled. The justices were not persuaded as well that the evidence of the prosecution was nothing, but hearsay because the witnesses had inspected the victim and found that he was sodomised with one of them being more elaborate as his testimony came from a professional medical physician and a specialist in children. It was alleged during the trial that on March 5, 2014, in Mapelele, Mbalizi in Mbeya, the appellant had carnal knowledge of the boy against the order of nature. At the end of trial, he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. Additionally, the appellant was ordered to pay 20m/- compensation to the victim. Having been aggrieved by the verdict, the appellant appealed to the High Court of Tanzania in Mbeya. The High Court dismissed the appeal, forcing him to take the matter to the Court of Appellate, which has also upheld the sentence.