Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) yesterday reaffirmed its strong cooperation and good investment environment to potential Austrian investors in the country. TIC official Diana Ladislaus told the Austrian business delegation, which is in a two-day visit in the country, Tanzania aims at becoming an industrial economy and logistics hub for Africa as well as a semi-industrialised country by 2025. The delegation, which contains 16 business companies, is in the country to explore investment opportunities. The business trip has been organised in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation. According to information released on Sunday by the ministry, apart from promoting economic diplomacy, the delegation is set to bring more investors in various sectors like health, education, telecommunications, hydro-electric power and transportation. The delegation is also scheduled to hold talks with ministers for agriculture, energy, finance, health and works in Dodoma. Presenting the country’s investment climate overviewMs Ladislaus said “Tanzania aims at becoming an industrialised economy and logistics hub for Africa as well as a semi-industrialised country by 2025. The centre is therefore mandated to champion the industrialisation drive.” She added that peace and political stability, economic stability, endowment in natural resources, investment guarantees as well as strategic location and access to markets were some of the impetus for investors to come in Tanzania. The official informed the delegation that there were exemptions on project capital goods, including Zero Import Duty on raw materials and capital goods, 10 per cent import duty on semi-finished goods as well as 25 per cent import duty on final consumer goods or finished commercial goods. Commenting on the areas that the delegation was much interested to invest in, the Austria Federal Economic Chamber-Regional Director Africa/Middle East, Ms Nella Hengstler said their focus is on machineries, saying her country was well advanced in the field.