AGAIN, Young Africans made a clean sweep of December awards in which, Congolese striker, Heritier Makambo emerged Player of the Month, while Congolese tactician, Mwinyi Zahera won the Coach of the Month. The duo won similar accolades for the month of November and they picked from where they had left to win December top honours. The Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) through the Awards Committee picked the duo again basing on their impressive run at their club during the month. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, said in a statement yesterday that to win the award, Makambo saw off a challenge from Miraj Athumani of Iringa’s Lipuli FC and Idd Selemani ‘Nando’ of Mbeya City. During the month, Yanga played five league matches in which, they collected maximum 15 points, winning all five matches to move top of the league table. Ndimbo said Makambo made huge contribution for his team during that period, scoring four goals. Lipuli’s Athumani also had a significant contribution for his team in the league during the month, in which Lipuli played four matches and collected ten points after winning three and drew one. Lipuli climbed from 14th to eighth position in the league table, while Idd Selemani was also instrumental for his team Mbeya City in the league matches. Makambo, who tops the top flight goal scoring chart with 11 goals from 18 matches, becomes the first player this season, to win back to back monthly awards. Last November, the striker was declared winner after he saw off challenge from Said Dilunga of Ruvu Shooting and Yanga defender Abdallah Shaibu ‘Ninja’. His (Makambo) coach, Zahera also becomes the first tactician to win back to back monthly awards this season after scooping the November accolades. Zahera won the honours after beating two finalists –Samuel Moja, who is the Head Coach of Lipuli FC and Kagera Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime. Last November, Zahera won the award after beating two finalists -- Juma Mgunda of Coastal Union and Alliance FC interim Coach, Gilbert Dadi. Simba striker, Emmanuel Okwi secured the Mainland Premier League player of the month award for October after a string of good performances in the league. The Ugandan hitman beat Azam FC striker, Yahya Zayd and Eliud Ambokile of Mbeya City who were nominated by the Award Committee of the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB). Mbeya City’s Eliud Ambokile won the September award, while Meddie Kagere of Simba won the August award. Coaches who won the award and the respective months in bracket are Amri Said of Mbao FC (August), Mwinyi Zahera of Yanga (September), Azam’s Hans Pluijm (October) and Zahera (November).