Teams from Malawi and Zambia have been invited to spice up Mbeya basketball bonanza challenge which officially opens the 2019 basketball season in Southern Highlands. The two-day event jointly organised by Mbeya Flames Club and Mbeya Basketball Association is scheduled to be staged on March 9th and 10th at Roman Catholic Youth Centre courts in Mbeya. The event’s coordinator Joginda Msai told the ‘Daily News’ from Mbeya yesterday that they are happy to welcome teams from outside the country and they have already confirmed participation since the weekend. “We are very fortunate to have Bravehearts men and women from Malawi and Munali Suns from Zambia in the participants’ list,” he said. Msai added their presence will make the event more colourful with several entertainment groups also invited to perform during the event. He said that preparation for the 2019 opener is on a top gear as the region targets to run one of the best events of the season. “We have already received massive boosts from local teams, they have all responded well as I said before. Teams from Mbeya and others from other regions have already confirmed, we are delighted to see many teams responding positively to our call,” he said. Teams from Mbeya which have confirmed are Mbeya Elite, Super Team, Wakanda, City Bullets, Umeme Warriors, Mbeya Flames, Tigers Rangers all men’s, while Mbeya Flames Queens is the only women side. He also named Vijana City Bulls, Vijana Queens, Oilers, Oilers Princess as invited teams from Dar es Salaam, while Hoopers and Arusha Queens are from Arusha, Dodoma Spurs men and Dodoma Spurs Ladies come from Tanzanian capital. Others are Buffalo men and Iringa Queens from Iringa while Home Boys come from Rukwa. Msai added that confirmation of Bravehearts ladies makes total of seven women’s teams at the event to reach 15. He said that they gear up to promote and develop the game and the event is an ideal platform to reach the target in the Southern Highlands. “As I said before it is always good to see women teams competing in the event since they are very few of them countrywide. Bringing together seven women teams at the event is very fascinating,” he said. Msai has appealed for companies and sports wellwishers to come forward and assist the teams and the event so as to make it successful.