Simba SC jetted off yesterday evening for Cairo, Egypt ahead of their CAF Champions’ League group stage encounter against Egyptians and record winners of the tournament Al Ahly schedule for Saturday in Alexandria. Patrick Aussems side which is still reeling from a humiliating 5-0 defeat at the hands of DR Congo side AS Vita Club, left the country with a contingent of 20 players to face the club of the century in African football at the Borg el Arab Stadium. Simba, placed in group D alongside Al Ahly, AS Vita Club and JS Saoura are positioned third, level on three points with second-placed Vita Club, while Ahly are on the lead of the group with four points and Algeria’s JS Saoura are bottom placed with only a single point. Speaking about the match, Simba Belgian tactician, Aussems has piled praise on the Egyptian side alias the Red Castle as a tough side to face. Al Ahly is under the tutelage of Uruguayan tactician, Martin Lasarte. Aussems said his side is aware that they are going to face the best team in continent. Al Ahly won eight Champions League titles. “It is going to be a tough game, we have to work hard and just to be clear, I’ am not expecting to get any points from away games to Al Ahly and Vita Club. Our aim is to get the maximum points at home games,” he said. “I don’t really focus on certain players at Al Ahly, but of course it’s better to know how they play and all their strengths and weaknesses. It will be great if we can get points from Al Ahly and not returning empty-handed." Aussems who had also spoken about the different technical approaches coaches have taken when facing Al Ahly, disclosed that coaches know how to stop Al Ahly and cause them problems but what matters is all about the execution of plans. “I don’t like dreams because anything can happen during the game. It will be much harder for us if they get a penalty during the game or an offside goal or if one of our players gets sent off,” he added. Despite commending his opponents, Aussems said he is confident that his side will not make it an easy game for their opponents on the pitch. However, he said to get positive results, will come down to the extent of how his players will execute his plan. Skipper, John Bocco said the group was still open to all teams and the results of the third round would help to give a clear picture on the direction of the teams. Although the names of players making the trip were not officially made public but the reporter of this paper observed those who proceeded for check include Aishi Manula and Deogratius Munishi, Nicholas Gyan, Mohammed Hussein, Paul Bukaba, Pascal Wawa, Jjuuko Murshid, James Kotei, Jonas Mkude and Clatous Chama. Others are Haruna Niyonzima, Hassan Dilunga, John Bocco, Emmanuel Okwi, Meddie Kagere, Adam Salamba, Rashid Juma, Mohamed Ibrahim ‘MO’ and Muzamiru Yassin. Senegalese referees will be in charge of the game. They are Maguette Ndiaye, who will be the central referee and will be assisted by Djibril Camara and El Hadji Malick Samba, while fourth official will be Daouda Gueye.