To be weak or not to be weak? That is the question in the heads of many Tanzanians following the remarks made by CAG, when participating in a radio programme in the US recently, and referring to a ‘weak’ Parliament of Tanzania. The remarks irked the Speaker, who directed CAG to appear before the Parliamentary Rights, Ethics and Powers Committee on January 21. Before doing so, CAG called a press conference and is quoted to have said: “What I said recently is very normal. I think I was quoted wrongly… words like ‘weakness’ and ‘deficiency’ are very normal in the auditing profession, as they are used by auditors when providing opinions on performance of various organisations.” (Custodian, January 22, p. 2). This statement got me thinking about Italian mathematician, physicist and philosopher Galileo Galilei (1564-1642), who is reputed to have uttered words, which later became famous: “Eppur si muove”, meaning “and still, it moves”. Accepted dogma at that time was that the sun moved around the earth. Galileo found otherwise. It was, however, dangerous for one to say that publicly as it was considered to be heretical and one could be punished by death. Galileo had the conviction of saying so. He was brought before the Roman Inquisition, jailed and forced to recant his claims. This he did, but on being set free he is reported to have: “looked up to the sky and down to the ground, and, stamping with his foot, in a contemplative mood, said, ‘Eppur si muove’, that is, ‘still it moves’” meaning the earth moves round the sun. Back to CAG. He did not put it that way. Rather he said, at the press conference, that words like ‘weakness’ and ‘deficiency’ were normal in the auditing profession, though (by using those words) he did not mean to disrespect the august House (Parliament). The Custodian, like other papers of January 22, carried a news item on CAG appearing before the Parliamentary Committee. It was titled: “Parliamentary Committee says CAG Assad, ‘not stubborn’”. It was accompanied by a huge colourful photograph with a caption reading: “The Controller and Auditor General, Prof Mussa Assad, waits to be ‘interrogated’ by the Parliamentary Rights, Ethics and Powers Committee in Dodoma yesterday, on accusations of making disparaging remarks injurious to the legislature as an institution”. As we will point out in a moment, we have reservations about the use of the verb “interrogate” in this context. But the chairman of the Committee is reported to have used it when briefing journalists: “After ‘interrogating’ the respondent (CAG) we will go through his documentary submissions before concluding and ‘advice’ (read: ‘advising’) the Speaker as per Parliamentary Standing Orders”. Our contention is that the word “interrogate” is too strong for what was intended, and what took place. What does “to interrogate” mean? “To ask someone many questions in a formal situation, often in a forceful way that can be seen as threatening. Usually, it’s the police, FBI, or other law-enforcement officials who interrogate suspects”. “To interrogate someone is not just asking a few polite questions over a cup of tea. When you interrogate someone there is usually a method to the questioning with a specific mission in mind, like determining a criminal's motive or where the stolen loot was hidden”. To be required to appear before a Parliamentary Committee does not mean you are in for interrogation, as both our English and Kiswahili press asserted (Kiswahili: kuhojiwa). CAG was not a suspect. For sure, a number of questions were put before him, which may have included the following: Did he believe Parliament was weak? Why did he make his opinion to a foreign radio station, in a foreign country, washing dirty linen in public? How about all that which Parliament has done to address his observations and recommendations? But I would not call such an engagement, “interrogation”. Rather, it is a session meant to seek from CAG, clarifications in his opinions. CAG may have reiterated his concerns expressed in his reports, which are moreover public. He may have pointed out, as is reported in the Good Citizen (January 19, p. 4: “Govt Performance on CAG Reports”), that much as less that 40 per cent of his recommendations were implemented, he was aware that all efforts were being done to address the rest. He may have agreed with LAAC Chairman, who is reported to have said “‘parliament’ was strong enough to oversee the implementation of all audit recommendations”. Only that in this sentence, the article “the” is redundant and the “p” in “parliament should be capital i.e. “Parliament was strong enough …..” There would then be no Galileo’s “Eppur si muove” as CAG moved out of the session!