The 16th edition of Sauti za Busara is a fortnight away with Zanzibar ready to rock to African rhythms again with a rich line up of over 40 shows celebrating Africa’s artistic diversity. Set at the iconic Ngome Kongwe from the seventh to tenth of February, joining global leaders in denouncing corruption, with the theme ‘ Day No To Corruption’ the festival will open with the carnival parade from Mapinduzi Square to Ngome Kongwe. Speaking at a conference in Dar Es Salaam yesterday, festival Director Y usuf Mahmoud said that there is every reason to celebrate this season, from the selection of artists to ticket pricing. “Zanzibar will host music – lovers from all corners of the world joining as one to celebrate a kaleidoscope of sounds, from Algeria to Zimbabwe, Cape Town to Casablanca,” he remarked. According to him, this will once again put young and upcoming talents from the East African region in the spotlight. “These include Wamwiduka Band from Mbeya Region and S Kide who perform youthful and energetic Singeli style that is purely Tanzanian and soon set to conquer the world,” he commented. The festival is also set to highlight on the evils of corruption as a vice that continues to deny young people their rights especially female musicians. “Corruption is a parasite, eating away at the moral fabric of our society. Looking at the music industry around us, we ask ourselves why is it that artists have to bribe with money or sex producers so as to record their music or get airtime? Is this why there are so few women in the East African music industry?” he queried. Admitting that the festival alone cannot completely change society, however it joins hands with likeminded partners, to promote dialogue, change attitudes and encourage action for good governance. With about ten performers a day, the price for a Tanzanian to join the festival for a day is 10,000 and if purchasing a four day ticket then it is only 20,000, and for those who cannot afford it then there are free events every day. Adding that, through music and art there is a lot that communities can achieve, given the power they possess. Musicians share hope and build solidarity across borders. They communicate with people of all ages languages and back grounds. Sauti za Busara promotes Zanzibar and Tanzania across the world, attracting international promoters giving opportunities for Tanzanian musicians to share their work with global audience, asserted Journey Ramadhan, festival manager. “Since 2004 when the festival first opened its doors, our focus has been to showcase music that is unique and with cultural identity. We have consistently demonstrated that there is a market and demand for new, exciting and original sounds that are uniquely local,” he commented. The festival has changed for the better since it commenced, “we are looking for music that still holds and portrays African traditions and culture so that we do not get lost on the way,” asserted Mr Ramadhan. There will also be a Movers and Shakers conference which will provide a space for local and visiting artists, managers, promoters, media and other invited professionals can meet, share interests, exchange and network, he explained. This year’s lineup includes Fid Q , Damian Soul, Mkubwa na Wanawe crew, Stone Town Rockerz, Tausi Women’s Taarab, Rajab Suleiman and Kithara, Afrigo Band, Jackie Akello and Eli Maliki from Uganda, Fadhilee Itulya and Shamsi Music from Kenya. Others are BCUC and Tune Recreation Committee from South Africa, Mokoomba from Zimbabwe, Faith Mussa from Malawi, Hoba- Hoba Spirit from Morocco, MToroChamou from Mayotte, Ithrene and Ifrikya Spirit from Algeria, Asia Madani a Sudanese who currently resides in Egypt, Sofaz and Dago Roots from Reunion.