Preperations for the 16th edition of the Sauti za Busara festival have reached fever pitch as local revelers and international visitors prepare for another season of live music from across the African Continent. Busara Promotions, the NGO behind the event, have confirmed arrangements are in place for the highly acclaimed festival which kicks off on February 7th this year. According to the festival director Yusuf Mahmoud the theme for this year’s edition targets to fight corruption because they believe artists can use their voices to fight this vice as they celebrate the wealth and diversity of African music. “In support of artists who use music to advocate for peace, unity, human rights and freedom of expression, a strong message visible at this year’s festival is ‘Say No to Corruption’ (Potezea Rushwa, Sio Dili!),” he said. He added, Corruption is a vice eating away at the moral fibre of our society; across Africa and beyond. Sadly, it has now reached a point where some people even accept it as normal. Though one festival cannot completely change society, we join hands with local and global partners to promote dialogue, change attitudes and encourage action for good governance,” said the festival director. Some of the artists who will support the anti-corruption message include Faith Mussa (Malawi), Fadhilee Itulya (Kenya), Fid Q (Tanzania), BCUC (South Africa) and others as they will perform at the festival. “These small steps will help lead in the long run to the change we all so much desire,” he said. The festival manager Journey Ramadhan reiterated that as Sauti za Busara continues to promote Zanzibar and Tanzania across the world, the festival attracts many international promoters, providing the perfect platform for East African musicians to share their music with global audiences. “The list, which looks so simple yet so rich in many attributes, features iconic sounds from Tanzania, including groups that are geared towards showing the world the diversity of our homegrown music,” he said. Advance tickets are selling well and the organisers say they are confident these will cover around 30 percent of festival expenses. However, despite its past successes, recent years were not easy due to a funding crisis that leaves Busara Promotions operating on a shoe-string budget and forcing them to seek donor support.