SIMBA admitted the defence was porous and resorted to sort it ahead of their next CAF Champions League duel against Egypt’s Al Ahly on February 2nd this year. Simba suffered a disappointing 5-0 defeat from DR Congo’s AS Vita at Stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa, DR Congo over the weekend after a lackluster performance from the country’s sole representative in the continental competition. It was the first defeat for Simba in the ongoing CAF Champions League group stages which deprived them an opportunity to top their group D category which is currently being enjoyed by Egypt’s Al Ahly who have collected four points from two games. Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussdems admitted that AS Vita were superior to them and the hefty loss they suffered should remain a big lesson to players. Aussems said their opponents played tactically well and looked superior in individual skills. However, Aussems was not impressed with refereeing saying it clearly favoured the hosts. Simba will play their third match of the campaign on February 2nd this year at Borg El Arab Stadium against Egypt’s Al Alhy before hosting them on February 12th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The victory has since enabled AS Vita to sit second on the table with three points from the same number of games while Simba are third on the ladder with three points as well only that inferior goal difference has favored the former. JS Saoura who salvaged a point after a 1-1 draw against Al Ahly in Algeria last Friday are bottom on the log with one point from two outings and they have reportedly sacked their head coach Nabil Neghiz. Algerian outlet Ennahar claimed that Neghiz was fired because the administration was not happy that the team failed to claim a victory in their last five games this season. They are currently seventh in the Algerian League table with 23 points after 16 games. Speaking in separate interviews with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, most Simba supporters agreed that the team’s approach of the game was not good hence they were easily subdued by their opponents. “I think we lacked game transformation as a team because you cannot play every match using the same formula. You need to change the system of play in accordance with the nature of your opponent. This is what highly affected us on Saturday,” said Ramadhan Chombo, a resident of Dar es Salaam. He added, from his own point of view, that Simba players showed lack of unity throughout the normal play of the game thereby attracting pressure from the hosting side whose success hungry players were not shy on goal target. Another concerned fan who spoke on anonymity said the team is good in the middle and upfront but the defence needs a lot of improvement. “Frankly speaking, our defence leaves a lot to be desired and this is the right time for the technical bench of the team to make prompt adjustments ahead of the upcoming league assignments,” he said. On his part, AS Vita Assistant Coach, Raoul Shungu said they thoroughly scrutinised how Simba played in their past matches and made a perfect game plan on how to stop them. “Generally, Simba is a good team, but their only set back is that they prefer playing a lot of passes which is of no importance in modern football. They waste time in playing many passes while for us, when we get the ball, we move upfront,” he said. He further said Simba boast of good strikers who need to be properly fed with balls for them to get chances to score.