After clearing Algerian hurdle, Tanzania’s CAF Champions League envoys Simba are keen to add three more points when they face AS Vita this Saturday in Kinshasa. Simba return to Stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa to play hosts AS Vita four decades after their last meeting and the hosts emerged victors. Historically, no Tanzanian team has managed to go past a Congolese club for many years now. Simba, Young Africans and Pan African were once or twice pitted against the Congolese giants; TP Mazembe, AS Vita and DC Motema Pembe, but none managed to sail through. We say enough is enough as we strongly believe the Congolese dominance can be put to an end if all of us support this mission. Parading a formidable sq uad whose scoring ability has shocked the whole continent. We are convinced that Simba can now conquer Kinshasa by beating AS Vita and strengthen their group D’s pilot seat and race to play in the CAF Champions League quarters. With a flying start that has been brightened by 15 goals in five matches, we expect to see the same in Kinshasa regardless of the status of their opponents in the continental level events. But as we hope to see the best from our envoys, we would like to warn them that they would be facing all kinds of tricks at the venue that clearly looks unfriendly to our team. Having controversially beaten 2-0 in Egypt by hosts Al Ahly, AS Vita, who are still pointless, won’t easily allow Simba to beat them at their home soil, therefore Simba should know that they will be facing a wounded bull in Kinshasa. From what we have seen in several matches AS Vita played, ‘superior athleticism’ can describe the best of Congolese over our envoys. They run a lot, jump a lot and fight viciously, something that warns our envoys to be cautious in all 90 minutes of the game which likely to be tense and highly challenging. As we fully back our envoys to win and shatter the Kinshasa jinx , we wish our envoys all the best in Kinshasa and we loudly tell them that records are there to be broken. We rally behind Simba as we are convinced that this time around Kinshasa can be conq uered after so many futile attempts.