The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Election Committee announced yesterday that the besieged Young Africans election will now be conducted in a week time. Yanga election which was earlier planned for last Sunday at the Oysterbay Police Officers Mess, was called-off until further notice, following a series of court cases filed by club members in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Mbeya and Morogoro. Chairman of the TFF Election Committee, Advocate Malangwe Ally Mchungahela, announced yesterday that the election has now been given a green light after the warring parties reached an agreement to sort the matter out of the court. “We have reached an agreement with members who lodged cases in court to drop them and allow the election to go ahead,” Mchungahela told a press conference in the city. Mchungahela said the committee will soon announce a new election time table and that the polls will be conducted within the next seven days started yesterday. “The committee has asked all the complaints to submit written grievances to the TFF where they will be resolved amicably and in accordance with the TFF, CAF and FIFA statutes,” he added. He said the dispute was centred on validity of members with old membership cards, CRDB cards and Postal Bank cards to vote during the election, list of members from some club branches were omitted from the register book and that some members still recognise self-deposed Yusuf Manji as Chairman of the club. Yanga election has been dealt with various controversies with some members supporting and other against it, saying they still recognise Manji as chairman of the club. The members also argued that the election is being conducted against their club’s constitution. Manji resigned in May last year and later followed by the resignation of his Vice -Chairman, Clement Sanga and four Executive Committee members, who decided to step down on various reasons. Candidates for the Sunday’s election which has been called off were Igangula and Tiboroha for the Chairman post, while the third nominee of the post Erick Minga was disqualified due to his failure to provide vivid details about his qualifications. Likewise, Titus Osoro, Pindu Luhoyo and Salum Chota are vying for the Vice-Chairman post, while the fourth nominee Yona Kavela was disqualified for ethical reasons after he allegedly tried to vie for two different posts, which are chairman and vice-chairman simultaneously. Eligible candidates to contest for the club’s Executive Committee slots are Athanas Kazighe, Ramadhan Said, Salim Rupia, Dominic Francis, Shafii Amri, Benjamin Mwakasonda, Christopher Kashiririka, Ally Msigwa, Sylvester Haule, Arafat Haji, Frank Kalokole and Said Kambi.