PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa said yesterday that the government will start paying 12bn/- a day to cashew nut farmers in a bid to fast track payments for those who have stocks in warehouses. The PM said the 12bn/- process starts today and assured cashew nuts, assuring farmers that all will be paid as the verification continues. “We have enough funds. We had started by paying 1bn/- before jumping to 6bn/-, but from next week (today) we will pay 12bn/- a day,” Mr Majaliwa said amid cheers from the crowd at his home base, where most people are cashew farmers. The PM said while opening a CRDB Bank in Ruangwa District, Lindi Region, being the first in its network in Lindi and Mtwara. He said they had agreed to fast track the exercise to enable those who have financial obligations like paying school fees, at the beginning of this year to do so. The farmers’ verification is geared at enabling the government to shut out middlemen, known as Kangomba, who for many years had been swindling farmers. Under the shoddy system, they bought cashew nuts at low prices in advance, and reaped huge amounts before the beginning of the selling season, since farmers didn’t have cash to see them through to the new season. Mr Majaliwa said the government wants to stop that practice, to enable farmers reap maximum benefits from their sweat. This year, the country estimates to harvest 275,000 tonnes of cashew nuts and already, the government had paid 226bn/- as of yesterday. The government intervened in the cashew nuts auction after buyers refused to purchase at a good price of above 3000/- a kilo. To avert the warehousing problem, the premier said the government had set aside 6.6bn/- for a state-ofart cashew nut warehouse in Ruangwa District. It will be the biggest in the country. “This warehouse will add value to your bank (CRDB) and the entire Ruangwa community and the district’s economic growth,” Mr Majaliwa, who is also the MP for Ruangwa, noted. Mr PM said CRDB at Ruangwa alone paid around 200m/- and 300m/- a day and the opening of the branch simplified payments further. The government is buying cashews through Tanzania Agriculture Development Bank under Cereal and Mixed Crop Board of Tanzania. CRDB Managing Director Abdulmajid Nsekela said the bank would explore the possibility of opening either branches or agencies in wards where the crop is cultivated, to shorten the distance for farmers to access bank services. “I have passed some of these small towns which are growing up fast and certainly need financial services,” he added. Ruangwa District Commissioner Hashim Mgandilwa said some people walked for between 60 and 100 kilometers to access bank services and would like to see the services being brought nearer. During the occasion, the bank donated laptops to 10 Agricultural Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOs) to enable them keep accurate members’ records, including their farm sizes. Ruangwa District is also the food basket for surrounding districts and regions. It grows maize, tomatoes, onions, and sesame. The PM said they had managed to elevate the sesame price from 1,400/-to 3,000/- this season and that the government decided to find markets for farmers’ produce.