ALL the best to Tanzanian teams-Simba and Mbao, which are playing against Bandari and Kariobangi Sharks respectively in the SportPesa Super Cup semis at the National stadium. We urge our envoys to take their matches seriously and ensure the trophy remains here, a feat that will restore pride to our country. It is a football truth that for any national team to grow into a dominant force they need to invest in the development of clubs, players or tournaments and Super Cup can be among the yardsticks. Since it was introduced three years back, SportsPesa Super Cup has been solely a Kenyan affair with Gor Mahia twice winning it. It looked from what we experienced in the last two events. Tanzanian football looked to have lost its power and the winning culture has disappeared. Fingers were pointed and heads rolled, but this did not seem to help our teams ride past our Kenyan opponents, this can only put an end if Simba or Mbao win this year’s event. As lack of proper development structures that could produce players capable of playing in top leagues was pointed as the major source, we feel if our envoys overpower their opponents in terms of individual skills and tactics, the outcome will be very rewarding. We would like this time a Tanzanian team face Everton like Gor Mahia did when they twice won the title. In the past it seemed our clubs did not have a keen interest in the competition, and would even field under strength teams in the tournament, more concerned with having a strong team for their next League game. We end up by emphasizing the need to take the Sportpesa Super Cup finals seriously and the sentiments should be taken to heart by anyone who wants to see Tanzanian football continue its impressive revival. For a player to be the best he has to compete with the best and the platform for that are the regional or continental level showpiece, which brings together various football styles and top players. This season as it has publicly covered, Simba are seriously coming on and this helped them qualify for the CAF Champions League’s group stage. Simba are currently undisputed local kings, and they need to lead the charge and show others that the competition is an invaluable tool for themselves and the national team that they serve.