COUNCILLORS in NKASI District in Rukwa Region have commended the government move to lift ban on maize exportation calling upon farmers and traders to do business with a neighbouring country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) where they can get attractiv e and competitive prices. Kabwe Ward Councillor, Mr Asante L ubisha urged farmers and traders to grab the opportunity to export their m aize to the neighbouring country of th e DRC where several precincts along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika are in dire sh ortage of food. “ Several areas including cities and tow ns along the Lake Tanganyika shore on th e DRC side are facing food shortages including maize. O ur farmers and traders can ferry food crops across th e Lake Tanganyika to th e neighbouring DRC using engine b oats where a bag of maize weighing 1 00kg is sold at an attractive price of 1 00,000/- after paying transport charges,” he added. H e expounded that the bag of maize of th e same weight and quality is sold in N kasi District at a throw away price of b etween 18,000/- and 30,000/- S everal councillors echoed similar sentim ents saying the lifting of the ban on m aize exports has come as blessing to farm ers and traders in the district. “ We can surely say that lifting of the b an on exportation of maize was overdue. W e highly praise the government for tak ing such move as in the future I am optimistic that farmers in our area are assured of reliable and competitive m arkets both within and outside the country,” said the Isale Ward Councill or, Mr Paul Mizinga. M r Mizinga also insisted that the indicativ e maize prices issued by NFRA in S umbawanga Zone should be in conform ity with farming cost which is very h igh. T he latest statistics available here sh ow that NFRA- Sumbawanga Zone planned to purchase 5,000 tonnes of m aize in 2018/19, a season that started in A ugust 2018. T he NFRA bought maize via Agriculture Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOS) as well as Saving and C redit Cooperative Societies (SAC - C OS) that the allocated tonnages of m aize was far little compared to last season’s bumper surplus of 423,049.2 tonnes of m aize. F ollowing bumper harvest of m aize during last season boosted supply of the food crop causing the price to fall down and forcing farmers to sell th eir maize produces at throw away prices of b etween 18,000/- and 30,000/-.