Young Africans and Singida United crashed out of the SportPesa Super Cup after losing to Kariobangi Sharks and Bandari in their opener at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The double loss, assured Kenya of two teams in the tournament’s semis while other Tanzanian envoys; Simba and Mbao FC play at the same venue today. Yanga suffered a 3-2 defeat to the Kenyan Premier League side, Kariobangi Sharks with the Sharks two goals scored in the first half and the third in the second half of the game. Earlier, another Tanzania team, Singida United were eliminated by Bandari Kenya at the same venue. Mwinyi Zahera side who came into the game after their last weekend’s first league loss, began the game with speed looking for early goals and they could have succeeded in the first minute, but their top scorer Herieter Makambo wasted the chance to give his side the much needed lead. Makambo, who was set by the central defender, Kelvin Y ondani saw his shot going off target, and three minutes later play maker Ajib squandered another chance after his shot was saved by goalkeeper John Oyemba. Sharks who are placed sixth in the Kenya SportPesa Premier League carefully studied their opponents as after surviving several scares, they fought back and after some misses, Duke Abuya put them ahead in the 9th minute. Abuya scored the goal with a nice long range shot from outside the box and the ball went past Yanga’s goalkeeper Claus Kindoki whose efforts missed the ball by a few inches and it sailed into the back of the net. After the goal Sharks were on-fire and intensified attacks at Yanga’s goal. Abuya, who was the man of the match came close in the 13th minute, but this time his long range shot outside the box went a few inches off target. After the miss Yanga overlapping fullback, Paul Godfrey charged into the wing and released a nice cross inside the box, Mrisho Ngasa tried a diving header, but the ball went over the goal. Shark seemed to benefit from counter attack system and the pillar head of it was Harrison Mwenda who frequently put Yanga goal under pressure. Kindoki made a nice save to deny Vincet Wasambo to double his side lead after pushing away his header for a corner which produced two more others though both were futile. It was in the 37 th minute when Abege George doubled Sharks’ lead with another long range shot from outside the box which once again caught Kindoki off guard. Few minutes before a halftime, Sharks could have scored the third, but they were denied by a goal, or else they could finish the first 45 minutes with 3-0 lead. In the second half Zahera introduced in Amis Tambwe, Pappy Tshishimbi, Juma Abdul and Deus Kaseke, for Haruna Moshi, Fesial Salum and Paul Godfrey respectively, however the changes were not very productive in the early parts of the second half though changes rejuvenated Yanga. Yanga continued to squander more chances they created through Vincent Andrew, Ajib and Makambo. And had to wait until in the 87 th minute to score their first goal through Tambwe who capitalised on Shark’s Lemu Godfrey defensive slip to round goalkeeper Oyemba and place the ball home. But while Yanga were looking for an equaliser Sharks Abuya scored his second goal with a superb move to make it 3-1 but with time ticking off to the final whistle Yanga scored the second through Tambwe with a header to make it 3-2 and chaos erupted between the two sides’ players. Earlier Bandari kicked out of race Singida United with a 1-0 victory at the same venue.