Busara foundation is assured to sign a new agreement with the Norwegian Embassy in March this year with a 3 years grant of 351,000 US dollars as the present agreement will soon phase out. Supporting the foundation since 2009, the recently signed in ambassador of Norway Elisabeth Jacobsen announced this during the Sauti Za Busara media conference on tuesday in Dar Es Salaam stating that the embassy supports Busara foundation as they see the importance of supporting cultural organizations because culture and sports play a great role in the society. “We believe in the role of free cultural expression, cultural diversity, and bringing people together and create space for different forms of art something that is important for artists themselves as well as Tanzania as a country,” she asserted. Adding that Busara festival plays an important role in this regard by providing a platform for artists, increasing their visibility and accessibility. Explaining that another objective for supporting culture is to nourish the expertise, quality and professionalism in the cultural sector and Busara puts emphasis on nourishing talents and giving artists the attention they need. “We believe by supporting Busara Foundation and their efforts we contribute to a stronger and more vibrant Tanzania cultural sector as well as protect and promote the countries culture,” she said. Adding that through art one can communicate, make people reflect and deliver messages like this year’s theme that fights against corruption which is very real and every one can join to fight against corruption. She further appealed and encouraged for more private and government offices to support such festivals as it means a lot for the artists and has great contribution to Tanzania as a whole. Julia Bishop Board Member of Sauti Za Busara festival commented that the festival helps a lot in boosting the economy through tourism. From the vendors who sell coconuts on the streets to hotels, everyone feels the impact. It is more of cultural tourism than just the ocean, the sand and the sun, it is also about understanding the culture and the people, and Busara does this beautiful. “African Synergy supported Sauti Za Busara by conducting an impact assessment two years ago revealing that over 7.2 million dollars is generated directly in Zanzibar during the four days of the festival. This shows the extent to which the festival boosts every ones economy and the chart indicates that even the number of tourists increase during this period,” explained Ms Bishop.