2018 was the banner year for Tanzanian football with Simba, Serengeti Boys and Kilimanjaro Queens parading its continental and regional levels feats. The highest tune, however, is being trumpeted by Simba, who had the most colourful performance at the continental level in football. Simba will be much heard in 2018 as the country’s and East African only envoys in the CAF Champions League after eliminating Mbabane Swallows and tough Nkana on their way to the group stage. Simba, who played four matches, scored 12 goals, while conceding only 4 goals in their whole campaign. The success also marketed the team’s top scorers, Cletous Chama, Meddie Kagere, John Bocco and Emanuel Okwi. As well, golf, especially in ladies discipline continued to hit good scores at both continental and regional scenes. As seen in the bright performances of Hawa Wanyeche, Angel Eaton, Madina Iddi and Vicky Elias,. Iddi won the historical top honour in a sudden death match-play against South Africa captain Zethu Nyeki. She also won the tournament’s best player award. Iddi went into the final round of the 14th edition of the prestigious biannual AACT; seven shot off the pace to Nyeki, who led from day one. Iddi, who was best national team contributor at the event, became the first East African golfer to win individual top prize at the event’s history, since it was introduced in Zimbabwe in 1992. Madina and her team mates Angel Eaton, Hawa Wanyeche, Vicky Elias and Neema Olomi also had good performance in Open tournaments staged in Kenya and Uganda. Volleyball, a sport seeking to regain a stronghold in East Africa, was not successful at both regional and continental. Still there was determination to push it to the next level. On the other side, 2018 went down in history as a year of mixed fortunes in sports. There were moments of turbulence and success in terms of sports performance. Taifa Stars experienced yet another turbulent year, which culminated in the down spiral in the FIFA rankings. Tanzania ended the year in 138th position. Athletics, a mainstay sports in the country suffered massive failure this year. It was unfortunate that no Tanzanian athlete managed to register a top notch win at the international stage, compared to last year, when the likes of Felix Simbu and Francis Damas made their presence felt across the world. Young as they are, Serengeti Boys brightened Tanzanian name in 2018. The Boys fought gallantly to win the 2018 Africa Union Sport Council (AUSC) Region Five Y outh Games in Gaborone, Botswana. In April 2018, Serengeti Boys clinched CECAFA U-17 title after defeating Somalia in the finals held in Burundian capital, Bujumbura. Mainland football team, Kilimanjaro Queens also retained the CECAFA Women Challenge Cup title in Kigali, Rwanda. Little known Tanzanian boxer Hassan Mwakinyo destroyed Briton Sam Eggington in a second round knockout in a scheduled ten round fight on the undercard of Amir Khan vs. Samuel Vargas at the Arena Birmingham in Birmingham, England. It is still though, the country sports standard is below satisfaction and there is urgent need for improvement. It is high time we should implement new prompt and innovative plans that would sustainably change the state of the sports sector. In fact, sports can be enhanced gradually and be better than ever if everyone is involved in the process. Thus, improving the standard of sports include efforts from the government, sports associations and all citizens.