TO be successful, you have to use each day as an opportunity to improve, to be better, and to get a little bit closer to your goals. It might sound like a lot of work—and with a busy schedule, next to impossible. Dolly Parton once said that if your actions create a legacy that inspires others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, then, you are an excellent leader. Talking to Hilda Maziku, one gets a feeling that her destiny lies in helping others, and by doing this she is on her way to creating a legacy of success in her life. A mother of two and the fourth born in a family of five girls, Hilda was born in Tabora region in Tanzania; she is determined to set the pace for other women to emulate and succeed. Hilda confidently says that she is in the process of writing a book which aims to motivate more women to take the path of success, saying that once completed, it will be a catalyst for progress for whoever reads it. “I always tell people that meaningless things and distractions will always be in your way, especially those easy, usual things you would rather do instead of focusing on new challenging and meaningful projects, that is why I always insist to them to learn to focus on what is the most important,” she says. An accountant by profession, Hilda says that to be successful means more than just having money and making your mark. It means following your passions, living purposefully, and enjoying the present moment. She says that soon after completing university in 1994, she was immediately employed by the government in various ministries, but ergy, says Hilda. She reminds her fellow women that when they start working on something without clearly knowing the expected results, it may take them hours or days of hard work to realize that it isn’t what they should be doing, if they ever want to achieve their goals. She says that the number of women who still face challenges in reaching their full potential due to an uneven playing field is too, but she is encouraged by the women who have remained resilient in the face of adversity and committed to achieving their calling and purpose in life. In her book which she says is due for publication soon, Hilda says that she encourages women to take a turn and change their mindsets in terms of seeking for success, saying that this will make them achieve more. “One of the roads most travelled by women and girls to escape unemployment and attain a sustainable level of economic freedom in this country is the road of entrepreneurship,” she says. Hilda says that her book titled ‘Mtazamo’ or Outlook also aims to motivate women in achieving their goals and realizing their dreams in life. She says that it is through hard work that after leaving employment she managed to build two houses, saying that her dream is to build a luxury hotel to complement her income. “I work really hard at trying to see the big picture and not getting stuck in ego. I believe we’re all put on this planet for a purpose, and we all have a different purpose… When you connect with that love and that compassion, that’s when everything unfolds,” concludes Hilda.