NATIONAL Examination Council of Tanzania (Necta) has nullified the exam results of Tumaini Lutheran Seminary in Malinyi District in Morogoro Region and suspended it until further notice from operating as an examination centre. Necta Executive Secretary, Dr Charles Msonde, told reporters yesterday that they had also directed the seminary board of directors to take disciplinary action against all Form Two and three students as well as teachers, who facilitated the exams cheating ploy. He also said they had withheld the results of 381 St Mathew students and 153 other students from St Mark’s for alleged forgery until investigation of the matter was completed. On top of that, Dr Msonde said Necta had also nullified the results of 252 candidates for a number of examination cheating grounds of which 71 were private candidates. “We have as well cancelled the results of two candidates for writing abusive language on the examination answer sheet,” said Dr Msonde. Expounding on Tumaini Lutheran Seminary cheating plan ordeal, Dr Msonde said it all started from a well-wisher, who informed Necta that immoral examination acts were going on at the school. After a close follow-up it was revealed that there were unethical examination practices, which allegedly involved the headmaster, teachers, the academic master, a police officer and Form Two and Form Three students. Dr Msonde said Necta then sent a probe team to find out if there were such incidents during the exams and it was realised that the school authorities had assigned Form Two and Three students for the cheating ploy. He said the students and school authorities jointly modified examination rooms and made some holes and prepared windows through which they passed examination questions and answers. “The students in collaboration with a police officer assigned to guard during exams collaborated and passed examination questions through the holes and windows and submitted them to teachers, who were in a special room to solve them,” said Dr Msonde. The teachers, he said, would solve them quickly on examination answer sheets and the students through the holes sent them back to candidates for them to fill in on answer sheets. Dr Msonde said the committee caught red-handed question and answers papers, when they were doing chemistry exams. He said the questions matched with those issued by Necta. He said the teachers were interrogated and admitted that they were involved in the exams cheating ruse in Basic Mathematics, Geography, History and Chemistry subjects. He went on saying that the students involved in the scandal were Cana Mwalyosi and Focus Ligongo (Form Two), Edson Mwiche, Hassan Yohana, Francis Maongezi, Asbert Njavale, Juma Magembe, Christopher Tapule and Sharifu Ale (Form Four). Dr Msonde named examination invigilators, who were part of the cheating deal as Hassan Nguvila and Jovera Lujara and a police officer No G7281PC Khamis. He named the teachers, who were providing the answers as Diana Kajanja, Michaekl Mang’ande, Samwel Mngwasa, Amos Nyenja, Japhary Matengo and Nicodem Libebefu. The academic masters in the exams ruse are Mpollo and David Kambanyuma and headmaster Eliud Payovela.