NEWLY drafted Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2018 whose public hearing started here yesterday has been described as the legal tool to hold politicians and their political parties accountable to the public. Briefing reporters here yesterday, Parliamentary Committee on Constitution and Legal Affairs Chairman Mohammed Mchengerwa (Rufiji—CCM) said the Bill has attracted a record number of stakeholders in its public hearing session. He said the turn up of stakeholders is a clear indication that wananchi want to determine the destiny of their country, especially in the area of deciding how politics should be conducted in their country. According to Mr Mchengerwa, the committee was expecting to receive views from about 150 individuals and between 15 and 20 institutions by yesterday alone, adding that he expected to invite 300 individuals to air their views. “This is the first time in the country’s history the Bill has attracted this level of stakeholders’ turn up. I’m sure it has surpassed the level of turn up of stakeholders who volunteered to give their views last year when the Mining Law was brought here for public hearing,” Mr Mchengerwa said. He said the hearing session will be extended to Sunday this week, with registered political parties’ representatives expected to give their views between tomorrow and Sunday. The huge turn up of stakeholders during the public hearing of the Bill indicates strong democracy and its principles in the country, said Mr Mchengerwa. According to the Chairman, his committee consisted of good number of legislators who are conversant with legal issues, allaying fears of having half-baked Bill. He cited powers bestowed upon the registrar of political parties in regulating political parties and their activities as well as the immunity granted upon him against being prosecuted as areas that raised eyebrows. “No suit shall lie against the Registrar, Deputy Registrar, Director or other officers under the Registrar for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith in the performance of any function under this Act,” reads one section of the Bill. Other contested issues in the Bill, include the need or any person or institution registered within or outside the country wishing to conduct civic education or any kind of capacity building training or initiative to a political party to inform the Registrar in writing, stating the objective and kind of training, training programme, persons involved in the training, teaching aids and expected results. Among other important and beneficial issues, the Bill bars political parties from functioning as a pressure or activist group. “A political party, a leader or a member shall not recruit, deploy or form a militia, paramilitary or security group of any kind or maintain an organisation intending to usurp the functions of the police force or any government security organ,” the Bill reads. However, Mr Mchengerwa said some of the contested issues were not new as they were also in the amended legislation. The Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2018 proposes to amend the Political Parties Act, Cap.258 with the aim of removing legal challenges and improve its implementation. “We will listen to every stakeholder. Rest assured that we are going to come up with the best Bill that also does not clash with the Constitution. We want to have the law that will be useful even in the next 50 years,” said the Chairman. Bariadi West MP and former Attorney General Andrew Chenge said he was happy with the huge number of stakeholders giving the views. “Our work is to listen and later come up with good final document for submission to Parliament,” he said. Legal and Human Rights Centre, Twaweza and Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) issued their joint document in which they proposed reduction of the powers of the Political Parties’ Registrar.