CANCER and hepatitis have been described as the types of diseases which are a big threat to children in recent years whereby parents and guardians alike are advised to ensure they consult health experts whenever they see symptoms related to these diseases. For hepatitis, for example, the natural spontaneous clearance rate for hepatitis C is between 20 per cent and 40 per cent worldwide and is higher in children who have been parenterally infected compared to perinatal infection. It is a mild disease in children, but the indication for treatment is based on the future risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular cancer. In his presentation during the ongoing Prevention and Awareness Camp (PrevaCamp) which was held in Rombo, recently, the Doctor In-Charge of the Huruma Council Designated Hospital, Dr Wilbroad Kyejo says it’s high time for the community to take quick actions to save children from these deadly diseases. “Children, just like any other human beings, have been subject to different types of diseases and illnesses but in recent years they have also been affected by cancer and hepatitis diseases which were used to be heard affecting adults,” he says. He says to save children from these diseases parents and all those who are entitled to look after children should be aware of the signs and symptoms which are related to the diseases. Dr Kyejo names the symptoms of cancer in children as those of unusual swelling in different parts of children’s bodies, vomiting and eye problems, which he says can be easily detected by parents and guardians. “There are other symptoms of cancer which could be detected after learning from the children themselves and these include the complaining of children of frequent headaches and pains in parts of their bodies,” he notes. “Hepatitis symptoms include dark urine, abdominal pains, fever and loss of weight, just to mention few. Therefore to save children, one is advised to consult health experts as early as possible whenever these symptoms are seen,” Dr Kyejo says. He says that there are many ways which a child can get the Hepatitis B virus through blood or other body fluids that contain small amounts of blood from an infected person. People can spread the virus even when they have no symptoms. Babies and children can get Hepatitis B in many ways -- including at birth from their infected mothers. Concerning the challenge of cancer in Rombo District, Dr Kyejo says many people have been found to be subject to the disease and that majority of them do visit hospital when the disease has reached a critical stage. He pleads to those who would be diagnosed with cancer or any other symptoms related to the disease to immediately consult medical experts for early treatment. In his presentation, a the skin cancer expert at the KCMC Super Referral Hospital Cancer Centre (KCMC CCC), Dr Heriel Msuya, urged people to avoid chemical- related cosmetics, which he says are one of the products that cause skin cancer. “These products if used and stay for a long time in the skin cause the skin to lose its capacity to prevent sun rays and this could lead to various side effects, which include skin cancer,” warned. “Apart from providing check-ups, consultancy and on-the- spot treatment, this camp is also very important to people who will now be subject to education to enable them create the habits of checking their health status,” he said. A cancer expert from Germany Dr Oliver Henke makes it clear that the biggest challenge which experts met during the camps was that many cancer patients are arriving at the hospital when the disease is at its worst condition. “This is a big challenge which can only be addressed by providing education, which would enable people check their health status every time,” he says. The coordinator and founder of the PrevaCamp camps Antje Henke expressed her satisfaction that a big number of people in Rombo District turned out to seek services which were provided by health experts. “During these camps, people are subject to free screening of cancer and those who are found with symptoms do get free treatments as part of the PrevAcamp programmes,” she said.