Pakistani national Muhammad Hasnain Hyderi appeared before Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday charged with bribing a Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officer 2m/-. He pleaded not guilty to the charge before Senior Resident Magistrate Wanjah Hamza. The magistrate granted him bail on conditions of signing a bond of 5m/-. He was also required to secure two reliable sureties, who were also to sign a bond of 5m/- each. The accused was, however, restricted to move outside the city without court permission and was ordered to surrender his passport or any other travel document to the court. The case was adjourned until January 31, 2019 for mention. Investigation, according to the prosecution led by Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Officer, Leonard Swai, has been completed. It is alleged that the accused committed the offence on January 15, 2019 at Best Bite Restaurant in Ilala District. The prosecution told the court that the accused bribed TRA Officer Talib Abdul Kombo 2m/- as inducement so that he could favour him in tax assessment, a matter related to the principal’s affairs. Meanwhile, TRA Assistant Customs Officer, Godfrey Mapunga was arraigned before the same court accused of possessing unexplained properties valued at 721m/- against his lawful income. He pleaded not guilty to the charge before Senior Resident Magistrate Salum Ally. The accused was remanded for failing to meet bail conditions. The magistrate had granted bail to him on conditions of depositing in court 360,710,608/50, being half of the amount involved in the trial. Alternatively, the magistrate directed the accused to surrender in court a title deed of immovable property certified by the Registrar of Titles or any other official with such authority. In addition to that, such a title deed must be accompanied by a valuation report from any government valuer. Other conditions required the accused to secure two reliable sureties to sign a bond of 360,710,608/50 each, not to leave the city of Dar es Salaam unless he obtained a court permission. The accused was also ordered to surrender in court his travel documents, notably a passport. The case was adjourned until January 29, 2019, when it comes up for preliminary hearing. The prosecution, led by PCCB officers Vitalis Peter and Lilian William informed the court that they had completed investigation. It is alleged that Mapunga committed the offence on diverse dates between April 1, 2011 and July 19, 2016 in Ubungo District, Dar es Salaam. Being a public official employed by TRA, the accused was found owning some properties, which were disproportionate to his present and past lawful income. The prosecution mentioned the properties as one storey building located on an unregistered plot in Goba in Ubungo Municipal Council valued at 698,921,217/-, an unregistered plot located in Mbezi Juu, Ubungo District, worth 7m/- and a plot in Kigamboni, Temeke District, valued at 6m/-. According to the prosecution, the accused was also found owning an unregistered plot in Goba, Ubungo District, in the city worth 9.5m/-. All such properties make a total value of 721,421,217/-, which, the prosecution said, was disproportionate to the accused’s lawful income.