Kagera Regional Education Development Officer (REDO), Mr Aloys Kamamba, is furious over people who impregnate schoolgirls, warning that stern measures will be taken against them, including sending them to a Court of Law. This follows reports indicating that about 229 students in the region dropped out of school as a result of pregnancies between 2014 and last year. Equally, he appealed to residents in the area to take a holistic approach in eliminating child marriages and high rate of school dropouts. “People must collectively fight against outdated traditions, customs and practices, which conspire to keep millions of women at society's backyard. This infringes on their rights constitutionally, and we must guarantee them their rights, while they fight all forms of discriminations,” he added. In clarification, Mr Kamamba pointed that out of the number, 41 girls were attending primary schools, while 188 others were in secondary schools. Giving the breakdown, he said Ngara District recorded the highest number of 60 dropouts, Bukoba Rural District 52, Missenyi District 36 and Biharamulo District 28. Karagwe District had 23 dropouts, Muleba 19, Kyerwa 5, while Bukoba Municipality had only six, all in secondary schools. Muleba District Commissioner (DC), Engineer Richard Ruyango, on the other hand, revealed that about 25 girls who were in secondary schools were pregnant within a period of one month between June and July, last year. Engineer Ruyango named the schools as Gwanseli (8), Kaigara (7), Mubunda (4), Bulungura (4) and Bureza (4). Kagera Region is one of the regions where school dropout rates for girls due to pregnancies are high, while despite this worrying trend, the situation shows no signs of recovery. According to a survey carried out by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, more than 16,000 girls dropped out of school from 2008 to 2010 due to pregnancy. In Tanzania, pregnancy is one of the major reasons for school dropout among teenage girls, where in 2007, pregnancy accounted for 21.9 percent in secondary schools dropout. The list also cites Mtwara Region as one of the leading areas in Tanzania where teenage pregnancy is high. Statistics show that school dropout as a result of pregnancy has increased from 5.2 percent in 2003 to 21.9 percent in 2007. The data singles out social cultural reasons for teen pregnancies among other reasons, including poor parenting and monitors, and pressure from peer groups.