IN efforts to support road safety initiatives, the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology Company Limited, a product of Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) has come up with pedestrians’ traffic light technology, to be fixed at road junctions country-wide. The idea came in after the company observed troubles people face when crossing the road junction, while the current technology prioritises only vehicles, the Company’s Director General, Mr Joseph Challo told ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam, recently. “We have started with Mwanza-Musoma road where we have been conducting a six-month pilot project since September last year. There is special button to be pressed by pedestrians and let all vehicles stop to give room for people to cross the road through zebra signs at the road junction,” he said, adding: “At the junctions, people are forced to cross the road only when traffic lights order vehicles to stop. In this situation, apart from being ignored, people are more likely to experience road accidents. People should be valued at the junctions as it is the case for zebra cross at other places where drivers are directed to stop even if nobody is crossing.” The DG affirmed that, the new technology considered fairness by setting specific time frame for pedestrians to cross the junction. Vehicles cannot move on before 30 seconds have passed from when pedestrians have pressed the button. The opposite is true since no pedestrians can stop vehicles once the set time is over. He further revealed that the project has already been handed over to the Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads), waiting for approval so that DIT Company can roll it out, countrywide. “We worry nothing about the approval since Tanroads announced the tender. We competed with many local and foreign companies and emerged the winner for this project. Only our competitive power shows that we are perfect and fit to carry out the project,” he stressed. He added that, winning the tender encouraged the company to continue introducing the technology in other regions, both in Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar, including Kigoma, Tabora, Mara, Simiyu and Dar es Salaam. According to him, some of the municipalities have already shown interest and directed the company to submit vital information, including the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) so that the plan can be included in their budget. DIT Principal, Prof Preksedis Ndomba commented that promoting and commercialisation of the institute’s invented products was the main reasons behind introduction of the company. However, he added, the institute faced financial constraints to support the process while the commercialisation could also encourage self-employment, promoting locally made products as well as contribute to the national economy. “Our students come up with new invention almost every day to extent that there is a possibility for each invented technology to have its own factory. We have machines for textile factories, for leather processing activities as you can see these footballs, shoes and handbags products here. There are new technologies for agriculture activities including irrigation and drowning machine for pesticides spraying in farms as well as technologies for mining activities. This is just a small segment of our inventions,” he said. The college’s boss affirmed that despite DIT seeking various sponsors to support commercialisation; still the government support was needed to make it fully attain the goal. He stressed that all invented technologies were cheap and affordable for every class of people in the society, calling up on potential industrialists and other investors to visit the college and apply the technologies, in the name of smoothing investments in all fields.