POLICE in Rukwa Region are hunting for a woman for allegedly stealing 5.4m/- from her boyfriend after supposedly serving him dinner suspected to be mixed with illicit drugs. The boyfriend, a trader exporting maize to neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), checked in at Manyovu Guesthouse in Sumbawanga Town, Rukwa Region, accompanied by his girlfriend. Similarly, there are reports that he had also a bundle of vitenge valued at over 2m/-, which he kept in his room at Manyovu Guesthouse of which his girlfriend walk away with. Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC) George Kyando told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday over a phone interview that the police were looking for the woman and an agent, who allowed the woman to withdraw such amount of money at once from another person’s bank account. He said the girlfriend went to Tunduma in Songwe Region and withdrew 5.4m/- at once, using CRDB’s ATM card that belonged to her boyfriend. Narrating the story, the RPC further said it all started after the boyfriend and his girlfriend checked at Manyovu Guesthouse and later went to meet the agent, who the boyfriend requested to change his dollars equivalent to 20m/-. “However, the agent refused to give him all his 20m/- for fear that his client could easily be attacked and robbed of his money. Instead, the agent advised him to bank the money at the nearest CRDB Bank, Sumbawanga Branch. “The three, the boyfriend, his girlfriend and the agent went to the nearest bank and deposited the money in the bank,” added the RPC. It was further reported that the lovers went straight to Manyovu Guest House and had a siesta and at night they had dinner served at Skyway Pub. “After taking meals they returned to Manyovu Guest House and later the boyfriend felt drowsy and fainted. It was at that moment that his girlfriend searched him until she got his CRDB’s ATM card.” Preliminary police investigation shows that the boyfriend trusted his girlfriend to the extent that he shared his ATM password with her. The latter reportedly withdrew 5.4m/- at a go from the agent in Tunduma, Mbeya Region. “The agent allegedly allowed the girlfriend to use the ATM card of another person to withdraw the money. So, we are also looking for the agent and have got the agent’s mobile phone number,” added the RPC. Mr Kyando further explained that the boyfriend was discovered to have fainted by a guest attendant, who entered his room as the door was partly opened as she wanted to clean the room. She immediately reported the incident to the police, who arrived at the scene of incident and rushed him to Rukwa Regional Referral Hospital in Sumbawanga Town.