Simba’s dreams to clinch SportPesa Cup for the first time vanished yesterday after being bundled out by Bandari of Kenya by 2-1 in the semi final match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Mbao FC who eliminated giants in the quarter final stage also made an exit, a situation that makes the Sunday final a Kenyan affair. The goal that halted Simba’s race came in the second half, netted by substitute Wilberforce Lugogo in the 73rd minute. Bandari sealed a match winner after a hard work as they were a goal down by the end of the first half. Lugogo slammed home rebound following a corner taken by William Wadri after being punched away by Simba goalkeeper Aishi Manula and the ball met the scorer who released a sizzling shot into the back of the net. Simba who had dominated the first half, missing several scoring chances through Meddie Kagere, Mohamed Hussein and Clatous Chama, had themselves to blame for the defeat as they had a chance to kill the match in the first half. Among the chances wasted include that of Kagere who was brought down by Bernard Odhiambo right on the edge of the box and Chama stepped in to take it, played a cut back for James Kotei, but his shot went off target. Another chance came in the 27th minute when Kagere charged into the box and managed to release a shot which went direct into the hands of Bandari shot stopper Shikhalo. Bernard Mwalala’s side responded strongly after David Kingatua charged from the right flank and delivered a cross which met Wadri unmarked, but unfortunately his header went slightly above the goal. Kagere who led Gor Mahia to win the second edition of the SportPesa Cup in the previous tournament held in Kakamega, Kenya is currently featuring for Simba, the club he joined after the last year’s tournament. He was the one who put Simba in the lead a few minutes before the halftime whistle. The Uganda-born Rwandese, Kagere scored the goal after he was fed by Chama who received a through ball from Muzamir Yassin. The newly signed defender Lamine Moro initiated the move. The former Gor Mahia man wasn’t much seen during the first half but he got half a chance and punished the Mombasa based Kenya Port Authority side after splitting Bandari’s defence, in one on one with Faruk Shikhalo and placed the ball in the near post. However, Kagere’s goal was cancelled in the second half through a penalty converted superbly by William Wadri in the 58th minute, the penalty was awarded after Hassan Abdallah was brought down by Muzamir Yassin inside the box and the referee pointed into the spot kick. Simba introduced Emmanuel Okwi, Pascal Wawa and Haruna Niyonzima for Hassan Dilunga, Juuko Murshid and the Namibian striker Sydney Urikhob who was in a trial with the club. The Namibian failed to impress despite being given a chance to start in the first eleven. Simba responded through Okwi and Shiza Kichuya who came in for Chama, but their efforts were either thwarted by the defenders or goalkeeper Faruk or went off target. The victory saw Bandari cruising into their first final and will meet their compatriots Kariobangi Sharks on Sunday’s finals. It will be all Kenyans final after another Tanzania envoys Mbao lost 6-5 to Sharks on penalty shoot out. The winner of this year SportPesa edition will pocket 30,000 U.S dollars cash prize as well as set a date with English Premier League (EPL) side Everton FC in England whereas the first runners up will take home 10,000 U.S dollars and the second runners up will bag 5,000 U.S dollars.