As they gear towards their match against Arusha United at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium here, Geita Gold Sports Club has called upon the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to allow all remaining matches be recorded. Geita Gold Secretary General, Sefu Kulunge, said their leadership has already written a letter to TFF through the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPBL), so that all First Division Football League (FDL) matches are recorded for sake of fairness. “We have decided to write a letter asking for that for security reasons as we see sabotage acts openly against other teams. It should be recalled that a team from Geita District was subjected to such acts two years ago,” he said. Kulunge noted that a high degree of cautiousness should be exercised due to the fact that there is every indication that peaceful environment would not be entertained at the match, recalling what happened when Geita Gold faced Arusha United on October 6th in Geita town. He said some club leaders’ mobile phones were taken off them. He alleged that after their (Geita Gold) match against Mgambo their driver was roughed up and sent out of the stadium violently, something he said was contrary to the rules that govern football. Kulunge said they have prepared well for the match, the squad was already in the city with 25 players and nine leaders and that they would remain in the city for two weeks as they have other matches in the Northern Zone. Arusha United Head Coach, Fred Felix Minziro said his squad was strong enough to ensure they pick maximum points at home ground. He, however, said the game would be tough as both teams want to maintain higher position in the FDL Table. In Group B of FDL, Geita Gold are at the helm with 20 points, followed by Boma that have scooped 18 points, the same with Arusha United. Rhino Rangers sit fourth with 17 points while Dodoma FC has 15 points. This weekend will see Boma FC entertain Police Tanzania in Mbeya city; Dodoma FC visit Mashujaa in Kigoma; Pamba will be tussling out with Arusha FC, Mgambo Shooting and Transit Camp will seek to establish who are mightier while Green Warriors will be up against Rhino Rangers.