COURT of Appeal has dismissed an appeal by Geita resident Marco Elias who was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to eight years in jail for killing his friend with whom they tussled over a woman. Justices Kipenka Mussa, Sivangilwa Mwangesi and Gerald Ndika ruled against Elias, the appellant, after considering a number of factors, notably the circumstances that led to the death of Marco Lutobeja and grounds of appeal advanced to challenge the High Court verdict. “We find that the sentence of eight years imprisonment imposed on the appellant is appropriate; it is his cross to bear for unlawful and brutally ending the life of the deceased. Accordingly, this appeal is dismissed in its entirety,” they ruled. During the appeal hearing, the parties to the appeal had complained that the trial court arrived at the impugned sentence on the basis of generalised consideration of the appellant’s antecedents and mitigating factors. In their judgment in Mwanza city recently however the Appeal Court justices were of the view that even if the trial judge had considered the appellant’s antecedents and mitigating factors explicitly and in detail he would not have arrived at a lesser sentence. According to the justices, there were aggravating circumstances that militated against such course. They agreed with the prosecution that the killing was vicious, that the weapon used was lethal and the appellant being a reveler at a disco party ought to have not been armed with a knife. “We wish to observe that the trial court did not make any specific reference to the contents of the postmortem examination report when assessing sentence. In our opinion, that report ought to have been looked at as it bears out the extent of the appellant’s barbarity against the deceased,” they said. They noted that the report indicated that the deceased’s body had multiple cuts—four deep cuts on the head that fractured the skull and penetrated the brain as well as one cut on the neck, deep to spinal cord. “From these deep and deadly cuts, it is reasonable to infer that the appellant applied substantial force against the deceased. Even if he stabbed the deceased in response to the latter’s provocation, the force that he used was plainly disproportionate and unwarranted,” the justices concluded. On December 27, 2011 at night, the appellant went to the disco party in the company of the deceased and two other people. At the disco hall, a brawl ensued between the plaintiff and the deceased over a woman with whom each wanted to dance. In the course of the fight, the appellant hit the deceased with a padlock on his buttocks and then drew the knife with which he stabbed the deceased in his left ribs. The deceased fell down as the appellant fled the scene. The deceased was administered with first aid but died shortly thereafter. The appellant was subsequently arrested and admitted to have killed unintentionally. He was arraigned in court where he also pleaded guilty to the lesser offence of manslaughter.