President John Magufuli yesterday made a categorical affirmation that Tanzania was a wholly democratic country, refuting claims that the government had banned political rallies and public meetings. He clarified that the ban related to leaders of political parties holding rallies or demonstrations in areas where they had been losers in parliamentary or grassroots elections. The Head of State stated the position when addressing religious leaders at State House in Dar es Salaam during a meeting that lasted for almost six hours. President Magufuli gave the clerics an opportunity to raise concerns over issues they perceived to be contentious. Forty two of them aired their views. Reverend Amani Lyimo of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) did, among other issues, request Dr Magufuli to grant freedom of expression to politicians and members of the public. “I want to assure everyone here that we have democracy in Tanzania,” said the President in response, adding, “No one has been blocked from holding a legally sanctioned rally”. According to him, only elected leaders are allowed to conduct political meetings in their respectiveconstituencies. He pointed out, however, that democracy had limits to within which everyone had to confine. “What we are doing here is also applicable in many countries, including the United States where you can’t see Hillary Clinton mobilising demonstrations in the streets of New York to protest against President Donald Trump; she has let Trump to work because he won the election and that is democracy,” he noted. According to Dr Magufuli, Members of the Parliament and councillors are allowed to hold rallies in their respective constituencies and wards, focused on briefing their voters on the accomplishments they had made. The President said legislators and councillors could hold rallies throughout a given year provided that was within their boundaries. “It is not right for a member of parliament from a given constituency to organise rallies and demonstrations in a constituency to which he or she doesn’t belong; this would trigger insults and breed violence; t his is something government seeks toavoiding. We should work for the greater interests of the poor Tanzanians,” urged the Head of State. He also reminded politicians to seek permits from security officers as required by the law before holding rallies, saying that no-one who planned to hold a legal gathering would be denied a permit. Dr Magufuli said the system that has been adopted would enable the government to concentrate on development activities. “If a certain politician insults his or her counterpart during a public rally, the targeted person could apply a permit to hold a meeting for a counter-attack. The government would be compelled to allocate a budget for providing security in meetings whose focus would be trading insults. Development activities would consequently be affected,” he further explained, adding: “We can’t build Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) road networks, power dams, schools and hospitals in that way and this has to be clear because people have been misled by the comments of some politicians,” he said. President Magufuli further assured clerics that the government would continue to cherish the democracy that the country had, and consolidate its cooperation with religions institutions. High-profile dignitaries who attended the meeting included Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, Chief Secretary Ambassador John Kijazi, Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Prof Joyce Ndalichako and Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo. Others are Deputy Minister of Water and Irrigation Jumaa Aweso and Deputy Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndungulile.