The number of child care centres are on the increase. These cater for orphans, children with disabilities and even street children However, some analysts attribute the increase to laxity in child upbringing by parents or family members and the rise of the cost of living, forcing many parents to go out of their homes and leaving their children behind with caretakers. Authorities admit that informal care and orphanage centres are mushrooming but their owners have also been accused of using the centres to solicit funds from donors. There are similar stories even in rural areas. However, child rights and nurturing experts are discouraging the practice of taking children to caregivers and orphanage centres saying a child should not be separated from biological parents. For the past five years authorities working under the department of ‘elders and social welfare’- Minister of Empowerment, Elders, Children and Women development have been discouraging child care centres, encouraging parents to raise their children. Ms Wahida Maabad- Director, Department of Elders and Social welfare says studies have proved that children cared by their own biological parentsor family are nurtured in acceptable standards compared with those raised in child care homes or by caregivers. “Let us change now, unnecessary separation from children is not good. Children need ‘ maximum freedom’ and love from parents, but in care centres and caregivers, the freedom and love is limited,” Maabad said as the campaign gets international boost. She said Children in orphanage centres and caregivers face various challenges which include lack of parental love is essential to a child’s well-being, and depression which causes them to perform poorly in schools, cruelty, abuse, isolation and stigma. Maabad said the project is a reflection of Zanzibar Child Act No.6 of 2011 which promotes natural way of child upbringing. The media should take the role of advocating for better child care by biological parents or in families instead of care centres. Some parents like Mwanaisha Kombo, argue that caregivers and care centres remain important in this world of increasing instability economy. “We have to go out to work and earn money. Many women are divorced and there may not be someone in the family to take care of children.” The campaign to encourage child upbringing by biological parents or family members is being implemented in three East African Countries: Kenya, Rwanda, and United republic of Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar) as a pilot project. The three-year project dubbed “Community Actions for Q uality Alternative Care and Protection (CAQ ACP)” with the aim of helping children here who have lost, or are at risk of losing parental care receive appropriate alternative care and protection that serves their best interest. SOS Children Village Zanzibar is implementing the pilot project in collaboration with Department of Elders and Social Welfare, a total of onehundred district social welfare officers. NGOs (TAMWA, ZAFELA, Muzidalifa Islamic Charitable Organization-MICO), and village committees dealing with children living in difficult situation. Speaking on behalf NGOs: TAMWA (Tanzania Media Women Association), Zanzibar Female Lawyers Association (ZAFELA), and Muzidalifa Islamic Charitable Organization- MICO) activist Ms Asha Abdi said Journalists through their tools can bring changes in child care by promoting acceptable child care. According to Ms Nyezuma Simai Issa, the Coordinator of Community Action for Q uality Alternative Care and Protection, the project which started in July in 2017 is helping 50 children who lost parental care. Similar project has been going in Rwanda, Kenya and Tanzania’s villages of Chanika (Mainland) and Tumbatu (North A-Unguja). The project was supposed to start in January 2017 but it was delayed for seven months said Nyezuma working with the SOS village here. She said “We want children to remain in respective families, taken care-of by family members instead of bringing them in care homes or caregivers.” “In this project, we picked 50 children being cared-for by 31 women in Tumbatu village in North A district on Unguja Island. Each care womon or head of established kinship family is taking care-of between one and three children,” she said. Speaking when introducing the project to journalists, asking them to drum for CAQ ACP, or promote natural way of upbringing children, the coordinator said after training those head of the families on how to care for them and allow children to access their rights. Each one is provided with supporting aid and each child is also supported with school requirements like uniform and other school needs. Ms Issa said that the 50 children including 29 female are entitled basic needs and are assured of support. Which include each family receiving some funds to start/run a small income-generating activity that will help improve the children’s care and satisfy their needs such as education when the project ends. She said that the women taking care of the children were free to choose any kind of activity like farming, poultry/ domestic animals keeping or trade farm products, along with advocating and lobbying the government to increase its commitment to support the implementation of alternative care guidelines. Help children join families, go back to school and get birth registration, and sustain provision of enough resources. Ms Issa thanked the Denmark foreign Ministry through SOS Denmark for funding the pilot project being implemented in the three East African countries, and that the key players in the project have been trained on alternative care guidelines, policy and budget analysis.