Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said SportPesa Cup would help him to select a good squad for the CAF Champions League match against Al Ahly on February 2nd this year. Simba thrashed AFC Leopards from Kenya 2-1 on Wednesday at the National Stadium in the city to land into the semifinal stage of the SportPesa Cup. They will face Bandari FC who eliminated Singida United in the quarter final stage on Tuesday. Emmanuel Okwi and Cletous Chama scored in each half of the game to give Simba, who reached into the final last year in Kenya but lost 2-0 to Gor Mahia, a second chance to win the title for the first time. Leopards hit one back in the 62nd minute courtesy of substitute Vincent Oburu. The second semi final match will see debutants Mbao FC who mercilessly bundled out defending champs Gor Mahia, taking on Kariobangi Sharks later today and winners will automatically cruise into the finals to be played on Sunday. Simba travel to Egypt to play their third group stage match of the biggest continental competition looking to register a positive results after a disappointing 5-0 loss to AS Vita in Kinshasa in their previous fixture. The slump prevented Simba to top their group D category which saw them clinging on third slot with 3 points from two games and so far, the team’s best results was the 3-0 triumph they posted after hammering JS Saoura at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Al Ahly still command the group with 4 points from two games, seconded by AS Vita with 3 points while Simba is third on the pile with 3 points as well whereas JS Saoura is fourth with one point respectively. However, the group is open to each team and the results of the third round would help to give a clear picture on the direction of the teams. In his post match briefing, Aussems said the unfolding tournament will enable him to come up with a good team to derail the Egyptians. “The teams from Kenya are very competitive and we had a great game today (Wednesday) against AFC Leopards. It is a good preparation ahead of our away CAF Champions League match versus Al Ahly next month,” Aussems said. Commenting on the game itself, the coach said his side ought to be realistic at the back line to avoid conceding goals. “We conceded a silly goal but that is something we can solve ahead of the upcoming semifinal clash on Friday,” he said. Quizzed on the performance of the two new players who played the entire match on the day, Aussems said they need to be given ample time to fit the team’s style of play. On his part, AFC Leopards coach Marko Vesiljevic admitted that they played against a good team which competes in group stages of CAF Champions League. “We have lost to a good team. They used our mistakes to their advantage but this is how football behaves,” Vesiljevic said.