Rwanda has chosen Bukoba Port to be its oil cargo receiving point from Dar es Salaam before transporting it to the final destination in the East African nation. The decision made by Rwanda to pick Bukoba Port as its oil transit point was reached yesterday after a meeting that involved Rwandan Minister for Infrastructure, Ambassador Claver Gatete, Minister for Energy Dr Medard Kalemani and Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Isack Kamwelwe. The meeting of the three ministers, among other things, aimed at finding the best way of hauling oil to Rwanda from Dar es Salaam Port. Speaking after the meeting, Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Kamwelwe said he held the meeting with his counterpart from Rwanda, Ambassador Gatete and Energy Minister Dr Kalemani for the objective of looking into how Rwanda could quickly receive its oil cargo from Dar es Salaam port. He said the discussion was centered on how Rwanda could use railway transport in hauling oil cargo from Dar es Salaam Port via Mwanza Port to Bukoba Port before transporting it to the final destination. “Our colleagues in Rwanda have been transporting oil from Dar es Salaam Port by trucks owned by private individuals. Now that we have good railway infrastructure we want them to start using it in hauling their cargo,” Kamwelwe said. According to the Minister, a joint team from both countries has been formed to research on how best the two countries can utilise the available transport infrastructure to reach the desired goals. “We want oil cargo destined for Rwanda to be transported directly to Mwanza by railway and later Bukoba Port,” the Minister insisted. From Mwanza Port to Bukoba Port the cargo will be ferried on Lake Victoria. The minister said special oil infrastructure, including storage tanks will be installed at Bukoba Port as part of the efforts to implement the plan and a joint budget for project implementation at Bukoba Port. He said it would be less costly and easier for Rwanda to haul cargo from Bukoba Port due to the fact that the distance from Bokoba to Rusumo border is not more than 300 kilometres. Rwandan Infrastructure Minister Ambassador Gatete said the decision reached was not only meant to simplify oil cargo haulage but in essence it is meant to cement the existing good trade and diplomatic relations between Tanzania and Rwanda. He said last year he and Engineer Kamwelwe met to explore means on how to jointly finance the project of constructing a railway from Dar es Salaam via Isaka to Kigali in Rwanda. “We have discussed on how best to utilise Bukoba Port in transporting oil to my country. As you might be aware transporting cargo from Dar es Salaam or Mombasa to Rwanda is so tedious and costly,” Ambassador Gatete said. “The joint taskforce we have constituted will conduct a feasibility study and advise how best to put up suitable infrastructure at Bukoba Port so that we can start using it,” he said.