Young Africans seek to restore pride and recapture winning formula when they host Biashara United in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) at the National Stadium today. Yanga lost their last two matches in Shinyanga and Dar es Salaam, a situation that forces them to fight tooth and nail to win the match. Yanga who lost their first Premier League match to Stand United in Shinyanga, angered fans a week later when they suffered a 3-2 loss to Kariobangi Sharks in the just ended SportPesa Cup tournament. So Mwinyi Zahera side seeks to win the tournament and sail to the last 16 stage of the tournament and go on to win the title. Yanga overpowered the First Division League side Tukuyu Stars from Mbeya 4-0 in a match that saw Amis Tambwe netting a hat-trick and Heritier Makambo adding the fourth goal. Under Zahera, Yanga had 19-match unbeaten run before losing to Stand United a fortnight ago. Hence today’s match will see them back to a fight to regain the winning run. This will be a second clash between Yanga and United as the clubs met in a league game at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and Yanga won 2-1. However, the two sides enter into the game differing in positions a situation that suggests, Yanga who are at the top of the league table with 53 points, clear favourites over Biashara United who have reaped 20 points from 23 games. And Zahera’s side need to be cautious when facing United as they seemed a rejuvenated side at 18th position with three points above the bottom-placed Tanzania Prisons. United under the tutelage of the former Simba SC player, Amri Said, United seemed to be gaining fast since his arrival as the head of the technical bench. Said who has been a threat to many coaches, has warned Yanga that they should not expect an easy ride just as walking in the park since United also target for a place in the last 16 of the FA Cup. Biashara United are participating in the ASFC edition for the first time, but can stun their hosts Yanga. The winner of tomorrow’s match will join Azam, Mtibwa Sugar, KMC, Kagera Sugar, Mbeya City, Lipuli FC , Alliance FC, Dodoma FC, Coastal Union, African Lyon, Namungo FC and Dar City in the last 16 of the ASFC. The winner of Yanga and Biashara United match will set a date with Namungo FC who eliminated Mighty Elephant from the tournament. Azam eliminated Pamba SC by 2-0 and will meet with the winner of the game between Rhino Rangers and Stand United whereas the tournament title holders Mtibwa Sugar dumped Maji Maji with 2-1 win to strengthen their title defence campaign. Winner of the ASFC will represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup.