TANZANIA Ports Authority ( TPA) has pledged to provide 1 bn/- for the construction of K agunga market in Kigoma Region to stim ulate trade between Tanzania and the Great Lakes countries. The TPA Director General Deusdedit Kakoko who was on tour of L ake Tanganyika shore ov er the weekend said the construction of K agunga market w ill play a key role in effective functioning of K agunga harbour. “ When the market gets started w ill stimulate the port’s productiv ity and increase the rev enue of the authority,” he said adding th at it will also increase th e number of traders and sh ips berthing at the harbour. He said in the first phase, T PA has disbursed 300m/- for th e construction of the market and ensure it starts functioning in a sh ort period of time. Kakoko added that TPA has also provided 500m/- for the reh abilitation of the road leading to th e harbour from the border to B urundi to simplify the im - port and export of cargo from th e port. On his side Kigoma Port M anager, Ajuaye Kher Msese said th at there has been a sub stantial increase in cargo sh ipping to the Democratic R epublic of Congo (DRC), Burundi and Z ambia, thus increasing gov ernment revenue. Msese said that the major im provements continuing in K igoma Port have enabled the h arbour to operate more efficiently by increasing load and self-reliance without subsidies. He added that the trend increasing incom e collection from 4 .1bn/- in 2016/17 to 6.8bn/- in 2 017/18 and thus the plan is to increase shipping of the cargo th rough the port of about 5 00,000 tonnes up to the year 2 020. Recently, TPA completed th e expansion of its berths at D ar es Salaam port thus easing h andling of extra-large cargo sh ips. The initiative was part of th e port’s efforts to increase its annual handling capacity to ab out 28 million tonnes by 2020 and prepare the port for bigger containerships. According to TPA, the b erth has been expanded inw ards by 200 metres with its depth reaching 15 metres, mak - ing it th e deepest berth of all at D ar es Salaam port.