A Moshi-based sugar producer, TPC, has appealed to the government to lower wildlife hunting charges as it plans to introduce wild animals in its 4,500 hectares Namalog Ranch opened in an area deemed unsuitable for sugarcane cultivation. TPC’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Robert Baisac told the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Joseph Kakunda and Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Mr Omary Mgumba who visited the factory over the weekend. That they have not been able to introduce the animals in their ranch because it was expensive to get the animals due to high charges. TPC, a unit of Mauritius sugar producer Alteo has established a ranch in an area that was proved not suitable for sugarcane cultivation to diversify its activities in a venture also expected to boost local tourism. Mr Baisac said already the factory has allocated 4,500 hectares for the ranch and the government has provided a permit to develop the area as a part of promoting domestic and international tourism. He said for instance hunting charge for a zebra at 600 US dollars was expensive and would make the project unviable due to high costs to be associated. The CEO said the charges were meant for hunting and seemed to be no consideration for anyone who wants to relocate the wild animals. He said according to the state system, every animal has its own costs to hunt but for them as a factory they need to keep them up and not kill them. TPC Human Resource officer, Japhary Ally, said that the area already has some wildlife except the big five which have different system in tracking and keeping them in such sites. “What we ask for the government is not to be charged the rates for normal hunters. We ask for some consideration as we do not kill the animals,” he said. Ally said the factory has now traversed a fence throughout the 4,500 hectare area, building houses for workers, drilling wells, dams and road infrastructure for tourists. Commenting on the matter, Minister Kakunda said he had received the request and he would submit it to the relevant ministries for deliberation.