Tell a Tanzanian in the know about Sumbawanga, and they will immediately think of witchcraft. There are many frightening stories from Sumbawanga hinged on witchcraft. For example, you could go to bed normally, only wake up in the morning, finding yourself sleeping, dirty and tired, in a field away from your home and room. How did you get there, when you went to bed sober in your own room, with your spouse, and the house was locked? It is in Sumbawanga that bolts of lighting could be sent on mission to infringe damage to an adversary. So it is no wonder that a baby elephant could get lost in Sumbawanga, as is reported in the Custodian of 16 January (front page), in a news item titled: “Lost Baby Elephant Airlifted from Rukwa to Kilimanjaro Sanctuary”: The reporter opens the story as follows: “A baby elephant which lost its herd and plunged into a deep gorge in Sumbawanga District, Rukwa Region, has been rescued and flown to a sanctuary in Kilimanjaro Region”. The article is accompanied by a colour photograph whose caption seems to have been truncated but reads in part: “The ‘which’ is airlifting of the young elephant”. The word “which”, attracted my attention. The writer was in Sumbawanga. He was presumably thinking about witchcraft. It was possibly because of witchcraft that this young elephant got separated from its herd and ended up trapped in a gorge. With this in mind, the writer crafted a caption for the photograph. He nearly wrote “witch”, but then slipped into “which”. Did he want to write: “The witch is airlifting the young elephant?” We do not know. He ends up writing: “The which” is airlifting the young elephant” although we seriously believe he wanted to write: “The winch is lifting the young elephant onto the rescue aircraft”. Yes! Winch, not which, not witch. What is a “winch”, you may ask? It is defined as: “a machine for lifting or pulling heavy objects using a rope or chain”. The good news is that there was no witchcraft involved. The baby elephant is recovering, at the sanctuary where it was airlifted, and wildlife and veterinary officers hope to release it back to the wild sooner than later. Still in Sumbawanga, we get this story titled: “Police hunt woman over 5m/= theft” (Daily Blog, January 16, p. 2). The gist of the story is that there is this businessman who trades in maize and vitenge clothing between Tanzania and the DRC. He checks in at a guest house, accompanied by a girlfriend. The two, meet somebody else, identified as an agent, in order to change money. The agent advises them to put the changed money into a bank account for safe custody. At night, the businessman and his girlfriend have a meal after which the man feels drowsy and faints. The girlfriend gets his ATM Card, and, accompanied or assisted by the agent, withdraws 5.4m/- from the businessman’s account. Here are some highlights of what happened thereafter: “Preliminary police ‘investigation shows’ that the boyfriend trusted his girlfriend to the extent that he shared his password with her”. Was he bewitched? I would have said: “Preliminary police ‘investigations show’ that ……..”. “Similarly, there are reports that he had also a ‘bundle’ of vitenge valued at over 2m/=, which he kept in his room, ‘of which his girlfriend walk away with’”. I would rewrite this sentence into: “Similarly, there are reports that he also had a ‘bale’ of vitenge valued at over 2m/=, which he kept in his room, ‘and which his girlfriend walked away with’”. Finally, we are told that the (apparently drugged) businessman: “was discovered to have fainted by a ‘guest’ attendant”. By using “guest” on its own, the writer had switched to Kiswahili, where the word “gesti” means a guest house or lodge. The recommended version is: “The fainted businessman was found by a guest house attendant”. Clearly, when in Sumbawanga be extra careful. Have your witchcraft repellant with you!