Water problems facing Kagera Region’s residents and elsewhere will soon end as the government is finalising plans to establish Water Rural Agency (RWA). Rural women spend countless hours trekking through harsh terrain in search of water, at times fearing for their safety, while enduring fatigue, illness and having to deal with contaminated water. Water plays an important part in people’s everyday life, it takes much time and energy to collect it. But the water from many sources is often not safe to drink without treating it, leading to diseases like diarrhea, typhoid and cholera. Efforts should be directed to ensure that people benefit from rain water harvesting. About 1,157 water tanks were recently constructed while 172 artisans were trained. Councils should enact by-laws related to rain water harvesting. Reports from different areas in the region indicate that they faced prolonged dry spell while some of the traditional water sources had dried up. Water and Irrigation Deputy Minister, Juma Aweso revealed that the government is keen to ensure that by 2020 people living in towns get clean water by 95 per cent and 85 per cent for those living in rural areas. Appealing to people to use water resource meaningfully taking into consideration that rains were not favourable due to climate change. “Councils in the country should award water project tenders to qualified contractors, who were financially viable, warning that stern measures would be taken against local contractors, who would be implicated in undertaking shoddy works. We are closely following up all water projects undertaken by local contractors. We have also deployed investigators for verification at construction sites and take immediate action accordingly. I have received reports indicating that some of the water projects, which cost millions of taxpayers’ money are non-functioning, while others are yet to be completed. My appeal to leaders is to ensure that the funds are well managed for the benefit of the majority poor,” the minister said. Aweso was irked by increasing incidents of vandalism of water infrastructure, calling on councils in the country to utilize existing by-laws to prosecute suspects. Councils should embark on serious programmes to educate wananchi on the importance of guarding water projects. The government is allocating huge amount of money to the water sector development. People must be educated on the importance of safeguarding the projects. Also, stern measures should be taken against perpetrators, including prosecuting them in court. He expressed disappointment with some of the water engineers who failed to supervise well the projects, warning that stern action would be taken against such irresponsible engineers. Citing an example, he said a water project at Bugango Village in Missenyi District had cost about 830m/- and the contractor had already been paid 781m/-but project beneficiaries lacked access to water. Another project at Katoke Village in Muleba District a contractor, identified as Ms Sajac Investment Company was paid about 404m/- out of 476m/-, but people were not getting water. About 87 villages in Kyerwa and Karagwe districts are expected to benefit from water sector development. In Karagwe District the project will involve Lake Lwakajunju supplying water to Kayanga township but also covering 30 villages… to cost about 70bn/-. In Kyerwa District the project would involve Lake Rushwa, covering 52 villages to cost 1.5bn/-. Tenders will soon be opened to get a Consultant Engineer for detailed project designs. The two projects are among multi-million projects being implemented under Water Sector Development Programme (WSDP). Kyerwa Member of Parliament, Innocent Bilakwate appealed for government intervention to include a project which will supply water in 57 villlages in the 2019/20 financial budget. Kyerwa District had population of about 321,026 but only 57 per cent of the residents access clean water. Feasibility study of the project had already been completed and when the project was implemented the target was to access 85 per cent of water supply in villages. However, a water project for Itera and Ruberwa villages was half functioning due to lack of competency by a contractor. We appeal for government intervention to ensure the project was completed on time. According to the MP, the District had only two water engineers, while one of them recently got involved in a road accident, thus appealing for additional staff. Ngara District Commissioner Lt Col Michael Mtenjele revealed that about 63 per cent of Ngara residents access clean water... out of them 60 per cent were rural villagers while 63.3 per cent were urban residents. Aweso commended Bukoba Urban Water and Sewerage Authority (BUWASA) for good performance in executing a big project which cost about 30bn/-on completion. Completion of the water project will increase water availability from the current 9.5 million litres to 13 million litres. BUWASA Executive Director, Allen Marwa, said the project capacity was 18 million litres, while demand for Bukoba Municipal Council was 13 million litres. To date water production was 9.5 million litres. The project was co-funded by the French government through its International Development Agency (IFD) in collaboration with the Tanzania government and was implemented by TECHNOFAB Company from India at a cost of 27.5bn/-. Ten out of the 14 wards were being served by the water utility. Four other wards –N yanga, Kahororo, Ijuganyondo and Buhembe --would be served after setting up extension tanks in different areas. The water utility was functioning at 88 per cent capacity while the target was to achieve 95 per cent by 2020. Engineer Avitus Exavel at the regional secretariat hinted that almost 64.7 per cent of the 2,458,023 Kagera residents in rural areas access clean and safe water. About 88 per cent of Bukoba Municipal residents access clean water while about 64.6 per cent at district headquarters get water.