Over the years, cartoonists have been informing and at the same time entertaining us, but we have not honoured them the way other journalists of all cadres have been appreciated. The Media Council of Tanzania (MCT) usually organises a competition on annually to reward journalists, whose work has been outstanding in various categories. My suggestion is that cartoonists’ entries should also be presented and evaluated to award best cartoonists in the country. I like cartoons and enjoy viewing them each time I read newspapers or rummage the social media. I guess you too enjoy the way cartoons present topical issues, frames and characters to capture our imaginations. Undoubtedly, they tell great stories in a very subtle way. They entertain, enlighten and make us think out of the box. Interestingly, cartoons are always informative, humorous and mind boggling. Masoud Kipanya (KP) is one of a few cartoonists, who present editorial cartoons, which are not only hilarious, but also critical. At times, he presents President JPM in an elusive manner that leaves great minds smirk! In one of his cartoons, which he usually publishes with Mwananchi Newspaper, he asks President JPM, “Do you have a roadmap of where we want to go?” Satirically, President JPM replies to his question, “Do you know about your tomorrow?” With the presence of the social media, cartoons can now be drawn and shared widely at a speed of light. Thousands of audiences across the world have access to these cartoons and provide instant feedback than was ever before. The electronic media such as televisions also provide space for cartoons on selective programmes to quench the thirst of targeted audiences. Unlike newspapers and televisions, radio stations employ comic segments or blocks to capture the interests of listeners. E-FM is extremely good at it with characters such as Mkude Simba, Bwakila, Panjiwani and others. In our heydays, we also enjoyed artistic work from creative and resourceful cartoonists. In the 1970s and 1980s, we had great names in this category such as Christian Gregory (Chakubanga & Polo), Philip Nduguru (Madenge, Lord Lofa and Comrade Kipepe in the Sani Magazine) and Godfrey Mwampembwa alias Gado, James Gayo (Kingo). On the list, we also have the likes of Ibra Washokera, Masoud Kipanya (KP), Nathan Mpangala, John Kaduma and Francis Bonda to mention, but a few. Undoubtedly, they were and are still creative in many ways. I like the way they create their characters and craft messages. They surely deserve accolades. Like pictures, cartoons tell stories with greater impact than all the editorial combined. The characters, their names, hoopla and appearance and their communication cues are what make caricatures unique and irresistible. If you take a critical look at them they communicate a lot of sense and are a representation of major issues of the ordinary citizen in the streets. Pick KP, for instance, annotate and cogitate his message to the government, politicians, activists, academicians and society as a whole. Again pick Nathan Mpangala and his ‘Kibonzo’ on ITV and ruminate its power! Trust me, a lot of brain and talent is displayed to capture the attention of the viewer and at the same time drive the message home. If you take cartoons for granted, you will be making great mistakes. They usually communicate amazingly. To understand the message, it also calls for a laser-like brain and a critical eye. Gayo’s non-verbal cartoon is a case in point. I think politicians and all other celebrities have now come to terms with cartoons. That they do not have to make any fuss out of it because by so doing they risk a chance of attracting more reactions from cartoonists as well as readers. Such is the power of cartoons be it in print or electronic form. They drive a critical mind to think out of the box and see a bigger picture. They present the feelings and aspirations of ordinary people to their rulers as well as characters and personalities of the rulers to their citizens. In this scenario, I am specifically referring to political cartoons, hence a need to look at the importance of political cartoons at a glimpse. In his Master’s thesis entitled “Importance of Political Cartoons,”Meghana Lawate explains the importance of political cartoons at length. His observation of political cartoons is that they are an important part in any newspaper. In addition, political cartoons adorn a small part of a newspaper, often in a corner, but with a huge impact. “A cartoon conveys a lot of information in very few words. Emotions behind the political cartoons are genuine and although sometimes demeaning, are taken with a sense of humour,” he notes. Conversely, editorials are for elite masses, who understand the intellectual content of the piece. Unlike cartoons, editorials have a tendency to be politically correct and hold back what gatekeepers consider ‘in a bad taste’. On the contrary, cartoons are generally barefaced about their stand on the issue. Basically, editorial cartoons play a major part in African culture. They are visual metaphors that can be found in a variety of newspapers and magazines. They often express a silent view of one or more parties or issues. Editorial cartoons are a form of nonverbal communication and are vital to our culture because they help shed light on issues that affect us as a people. View, read and understand cartoons. You will never get upset as your lungs will be filled with oxygen and your face lightened!