TRADE Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) has urged social security funds to invest in industries, as a response to President John Magufuli’s call during a meeting to discuss the calculation formula for retirees at State House in Dar es Salaam, recently. “The reason is that industries play multiple roles at a time, including job creation as well as transforming the nation to middle economy as per the fifth-phase government’s target,” said the Congress’ Secretary General, Dr Yahya Msigwa. Last month, the President met with leaders of the Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) and its allied associations, Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF), National Social Security Fund (NSSF), SSRA and Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE), for discussion. During the discussion, Dr Magufuli ordered that the formula used to calculate retirement benefits before the merger of social security funds in the country should be used until 2023. Investing in productive projects, expanding the scope of members as well as removal of ghost pensioners were among President Magufuli’s directives to the Funds, for their sustainability. In a press conference convened, yesterday, specifically to thank President Magufuli, Dr Msigwa noted that the President’s decision on the calculations made prospective retirees to breathe a sigh of relief. He said that the fear of failure to clear loans that had already been secured by some pensioners and development projects many people plan after they retire, were among issues that were seriously paining pensioners and retirees. “We do urge the funds to consider President Magufuli’s directives, especially on productive investment as well as expanding members’ scope. Investing in buildings seems to have no benefits because occupancy rate is down, sometimes not more than 25 per cent, because they are expensive,” he noted. If they were interested to invest in buildings, then the Funds should invest in affordable houses and let everyone in need of residential services have access, advised Dr Msigwa. Commenting on techniques to expand members’ scope, the TUCTA SG advised the Funds’ runners to consider formalisation process to all groups and individuals in informal sector, saying that apart from an increase in the number of members, the move will also serve in contributing to national economy.