AFTER a successful participation in the roadshow held in China a few months ago, Tanzania has been invited to participate in the Germany Tourism Roadshow scheduled for March this year. Government officials from various ministries and departments attended the China- Tourism Roadshow, where the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) inked an agreement with Touchroad International Group of China which is expected to bring in 10,000 Chinese tourists this year. The company will organise the tours through chartered flights. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Prof Adolf Mkenda said they are determined to make better use of the expo to market tourism attractions available in the country. “We shall make sure the expo brings more tourists to Tanzania, because what was done in China has resulted in the country expecting to receive 10,000 Chinese tourists this year,” he told members of the media yesterday. He said they will be making follow-ups on impacts of all events that were attended by officials from the ministry and its departments on increasing the number of tourists visiting Tanzania. Prof Mkenda cited the arrival of 35 Chinese tourists and other 300 who will come in March this year, saying it was a good start and insisting that they will keep the same spirit. “The ministry in collaboration with TTB will continue doing everything possible to boost the number of tourists as per the set target,” explained the PS. He also instructed TTB to come up with innovative ideas on marketing tourism destinations in order to compete with other countries that have attractions of the same kind. Adding “We must be aware that competition is high in this business, I have instructed TTB staff to take extraordinary efforts for the greater interest of the country.” As part of implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between TTB and Touchroad International Group, the latter brought a total of 35 Chinese tourists who arrived in the country last week for a three-day stay. While in the country, the tourists visited the Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) station, which is among the key projects that were constructed by the government of China in the country. According to recent statistics that were issued by the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, the number of visitors that toured the country in 2018 stood at 1.3 million and the government is targeting to attract 2 million tourists by 2020.