SIMBA test Mapinduzi Cup thrill today when they face Chipukizi in a group A match at the Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar. The only country’s envoys in the continental level club tournaments, Simba are using the tournament as part of their preparations for their CAF Champions League group stage match against Algeria’s JS Saoura on January 11 at the National Stadium. The tough encounter against the Algerians forces Simba to field most of their key players as part of a drill. Simba who are pooled in group D of the CAF Champions League alongside the tournament’s eight times winners and finalists of the previous editions, Al-Ahly of Cairo, AS Vita Club (DR Congo) and JS Saoura, are expected to take Mapinduzi Cup platform seriously. As it will be good test for the team, Mapinduzi Cup will enable the technical bench under Belgian Patrick Aussems to see the team’s strength and weakness that need to be either improved or rectified before their group stage assignment. Apart from the preparations for CAF level mission, the Msimbazi Street side are as well taking Mapinduzi Cup competition seriously as they want to add another silverware in their club’s shelves. So the likes of Cletous Chama, Emmanuel Okwi, Meddie Kagere and skipper John Bocco are expected to lead the team’s onslaught upfront with a support from the defensive midfielder Jonas Mkude, Paschal Wawa and Erasto Nyoni. But Simba who come into the match as favourites should not relax thinking they are playing against minnows, as their opponents who are featured in the Zanzibar topflight league might have a pack of surprise for them. Though they are not well known outside the Isles, Chipukizi might do what Mashujaa FC did to Simba in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) match. Simba lost 3-2 to the little known Mashujaa and were kicked out of the tournament for a second consecutive time. Meanwhile the tournament’s defending champions, Azam FC were forced to a 1-1 draw with Pemba’s Jamhuri FC in a group B match held at the Amaan Stadium on Wednesday night. The defending champions took the match’s lead in the 28th minute through their Zimbabwean attacking midfielder, Tafadzwa Kutinyu, who converted a penalty after Jamhuri’s Emmanuel Balele handed the ball inside the box in effort to clear’s Kutinyu shot. And disciplined Jamhuri who contained their opponents pressure well managed to equalise in the 66th minute through Abdul Ramadhan. The draw between the two sides means the defending champions Azam need to post positive results in their three remaining games against Young Africans, Mlandege and KVZ to ensure they cruise into the quarter finals and keep their title defence alive. The ice-cream makers second game will be on Saturday and it will be a tough test as it is against Yanga whom they are yet to meet in the Mainland Premier League and this will be their first meet in 2018/19 season. In the post match meeting, Azam Dutchman tactician, Hans Van der Pluijm lamented his side’s wastefulness as they squandered many scoring chances they created in both halves of the game. However Pluijm said they are looking forward to perform well in the next game against Yanga and other two games against Mlandege and KVZ.