Geita Gold Mine Limited (GGML) says the construction of its 98bn/-(43m US dollar) power plant at the Geita Gold Mine has been completed, the new 40MW facility having started producing electricity in August last year. The world-class plant which is intended to enhance the mine’s operations over the long-term, will play a key role in ensuring stable, reliable energy supply for mining and processing activities at the firm. Geita Gold Mine is a significant provider of reliable and decent employment opportunities in the region, in addition to contributing to the regional and national economy. “We are proud of this new investment, which fits in with Tanzania’s broader industrialization and skills development ambitions,” says Mr Simon Shayo, the GGML Vice-President, adding: “The power plant provides for many Tanzanians to look after its ongoing operations and maintenance.” Compared to the old plant, the new energy generating capability will be more efficient with lower operational and maintenance costs. It will support the mine’s transition from open-pit to underground mining operations, thus cementing its presence in Tanzania’s mining sector. Geita Gold Mine is currently the single largest mine in Tanzania in terms of operations and output and is currently transitioning from open cast to underground mining, reflecting the company’s commitment for further investments in the country. An efficient and reliable power supply is a key prerequisite for ensuring stable operations of the mine. Plus, creating a solid operational foundation for future investment in extending the life of the mine, which has a workforce of nearly 4,000 people, employed directly by the mine or by contractors. By generating over 40- megawatt electricity, the power plant will be directly supporting GGML underground mining. The operation method, which the company recently adopted, will gradually lead the mine to a complete shift from open pit mining. This method will increase the lifespan of the mine and sustain its current workforce, 96 per cent of whom are Tanzanian nationals. The constant supply of power to the underground mining will reduce company operational costs while maintaining its productivity. GGML will be able to pay more taxes and royalties to the government, while surrounding communities will continue to benefit from GGML Corporate Social Investments. Further, local businesses will continue to grow through its purchase of products and services. “Building the power plant and running lines to the process plant, is only the first step to generating success,” Marwa Makori, a GGML engineer who has been working on the construction of the power plant since the project’s inception, says: “Running plants efficiently and consistently improving efficiency as they run, is the path to ensuring the profitability and sustainability of the operation over time.” The plant consists of an engine hall, four-stroke generating sets, and a spare bay built to allow the installation of a fifth set in the future, if required. It is equipped with Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS), a leading-edge technology used to minimize emissions.