Last Sunday, January 12th, 2019; was the 55th anniversary of the Zanzibar Revolution which removed the Sultan’s Government from power, that had been in office for just over a month; and installed a new Revolutionary Government led by President Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume. As will be revealed in this presentation, the British Government, under extremely controversial circumstances, had granted the instruments of independence to Sultan Jamshid Abdullah of Zanzibar, at midnight on December 9th, 1963, as a result of a seriously disputed general election which was held earlier that year. And that was, undoubtedly, the raison de’etre, or root cause, of the successful revolution which took place on 12th January, 1964. Zanzibar under Arab rule The History books show that Zanzibar was, for quite a long time, an Arab colony, initially ruled from Oman by the Sultan of the then vast Arabdominated Oman commercial Empire in East Africa. But around the beginning of the nineteenth century, as a result of wars of succession which had erupted in Muscat when Sultan Sayyid Said died in 1856, with strong factions refusing to recognize his successor in Zanzibar, Sultan Seyyid Bargash bin Said as their Sultan, and instead making it known that they wanted to secede from the Zanzibar Sultanate. They were successful in that demand, with the intervention and help from the British Government, through what became known as “the Lord Canning Award of 1861”. Thus Zanzibar and Oman became separate Sultanates. It is further recorded that “the Sultan of Zanzibar, apprehensive of the encroachments by the European powers, agreed to British Protection on February 17th, 1890”. That is when Zanzibar became a British Protectorate, under the administration of an official called “the British Resident”. And this is the same British Administration which, after a series of wholly disputed elections which they had administered and managed unfairly against the Afro-Shirazi Party (ASP), they still decided, against wise advice, to hand over the Instruments of Independence to Sultan Jamshid Abdullah in December 1963; thus precipitating the resolve by the Afro-Shirazi Party, to throw that Government out of power. As we shall see below, this revolution took place primarily because the Afro-Shirazi Party had been continuously cheated, through the British Administration’s gerrymandering of constituency boundaries and other uncouth election malpractices, aimed at ensuring the success of the Arab dominated political party, the Zanzibar Nationalist Party (ZNP) at the relevant elections. The ugly face of elections in Zanzibar Zanzibar has an unfortunate long history of controversial, closely fought, and violent elections. This is because behind the scene, Zanzibar has always been haunted by its troubled past, based on politics of hatred and animosity that has divided that country into two warring parties, which appear to be unable, or unwilling, to cooperate and work together. Except for the praiseworthy reconciliation pact which was successfully worked out by President Amani Abeid Karume, who boldly crafted an innovative reconciliation pact with Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, that enabled the two sides to form a ‘Government of national Unity (GNU) after the 2010 general elections, with Dr Shein (CCM) as President of Zanzibar, and Maalim Seif (CUF) as First Vice President. Initially, it all went smoothly, with no indications of conflicts within. But, indeed sadly, the old politics of animosity soon reappeared, as the 2015 general elections approached. It would appear that there are certain extremist politicians there in Zanzibar, whose vested personal interests are seemingly being served by the continuation of the political stalemate therein. This is so because that welcome development, namely the formation of a Government of National Unity, was only very short lived; as the next following general elections of 2015 sent Zanzibar right back to its old politics of hatred and animosity. The 2015 elections in Zanzibar actually amounted to what may be described as ‘organised chaos’, which led to the annulment of the election results, and the holding of a fresh general election. But this action itself made the situation even worse; for these repeat elections were boycotted by the Civic United Front (CUF); which, to this day, refuses to recognise the legitimacy of the CCM Zanzibar Government of Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, which was formed after that disputed election. Thus, in view of the violence, and other nasty conflicts, which continuously erupted after every general election in Zanzibar since 1957, one could justifiably even describe the elections in Zanzibar as a “curse”; that is to say, ‘something that magically causes harm or evil’. No wonder therefore, that soon after assuming power after the successful revolution in 1964, President Abed Amani Karume declared that “there will be no elections in Zanzibar for the next fifty years”. He must have been utterly frustrated, and hugely disappointed, by the negative experience of those pre-independence elections. What follows below, is a historical narrative of the British administered Zanzibar pre-independence elections. The first general election, July 1957 The process started, as was also the case in Tanzania Mainland during the same decade, with the formation of political parties, which would compete in the proposed elections. The first to be formed was the Zanzibar Nationalist Party (ZNP), which was established in December 1955, consisting mainly of the Arab subjects of the Sultan, also known as ‘Hizbu’. On the African side, a Union was formed between the ‘African Association’ and the ‘Shirazi Association’, which gave birth to the ‘Afro-Shirazi Union’; which was later renamed the ‘Afro-Shirazi Party’. For the purpose of that election, Zanzibar was divided into six constituencies, which were: Zanzibar North and South; Pemba North and South; Ng’ambo and Stone Town. The newly formed Afro- Shirazi Party won in five of those constituents, and lost only in Stone Town, which was won by a candidate fielded by ‘The Muslim Association’, one of the two Indian Associations. The Arab Zanzibar Nationalist Party did not get any seat. It is reported that “this resounding defeat of the ZNP (with the resultant disappointment to its supporters), greatly contributed to the rise in the political temperature which, from there onwards, continued to gain momentum”. The Report of the Provincial Administration for the year 1958, recorded that “the year was notable to the extent to which politics infested almost every side of life in Zanzibar. Traders, cultivators, laborers, fishermen, and even house wives, were all affected. Villagers in the rural areas argued among themselves. Funerals and religious were boycotted by rival political parties. Women even pawned their clothes in order to raise funds for the bus fare to political meetings . . . Such were the immediate results of the first common roll elections for these formerly peaceful islands”. It is instructive to note that identical, or similar incidents, were repeated after the first multiparty general elections of 1995. The second general election, January 1961 For the second Zanzibar general election, the number of constituencies was increased to twenty two, and that is when the first gerrymandering activity in favour of the Arabs took place, when the tiny Stone Town constituency, a predominantly Arab and Indian residential area with only 1622 registered voters, was split into two constituencies; instead of Ng’ambo constituency, a predominantly Africa residential area with 4,853 registered voters. By then, some positive constitutional changes had been introduced, including the enfranchisement of women, and the lowering of the voting age from 25 years to 21 years. Those two measures considerably increased the voting population, from a total of 39,833 in July 1957; to 94,310 in January 1961. In the meantime, a new party had been formed, known as the ‘Zanzibar and Pemba Peoples Party’ (ZPPP). This second general election was held in January, 1961. Its results were that the Afro- Shirazi Party obtained a total of ten seats, eight in Zanzibar, and four in Pemba. The Zanzibar Nationalist Party obtained nine seats, all in Pemba; while the newly formed ZPPP won three seats, all in Pemba. Two of the elected ZPPP members formed a coalition with ZNP, while the remaining ZPPP member joined the ASP. Thus, producing a stalemate, because each side now had eleven seats; hence the Ministerial system could not be introduced. The third general election, June, 1961 In those circumstances, a fresh election was quickly organised, which took place on 1st June, 1961, after an extra constituency was created in Pemba, in order to make an odd total of twenty three constituencies. This was explained as an effort to avoid a repeat of the stalemate which had been caused by the even number of twenty two constituencies. But again, the additional constituency was deliberately created in Pemba in favour of the Arab dominated parties, which had their greatest strength in Pemba. The results of this third general election were that ASP, and ZNP, tied with ten seats each; while ZPPP retained its three seats, whose members again divided themselves as they had done previously. This therefore gave ZNP twelve seats, while ASP got eleven seats. The British Government granted Self- government to the majority ZNP/ ZPPP coalition. But there quickly ensured bloody riots that reportedly left sixty eight people dead, and more than 350 injured. The fourth general election, 1963 Thereafter, a Constitutional conference was held in Lancaster House, London, in 1962; in order to determine the constitutional way forward. The Afro-Shirazi Party insisted on two conditions: one that another general election be held before the grant of independence; and two, that independence be granted in 1962. The second demand was rejected by the British Government. But it was agreed that fresh elections be held in 1963, before the grant of independence. For that general election, eight new constituencies were added, making a total of thirty one. The results of this election were that: ASP secured thirteen seats; ZNP got twelve seats, and ZPPP got six sets. This election is what demonstrated very clearly, the effects of the gerrymandering of constituency boundaries in favour of ZNP; for in this election, ASP polled a majority 54per cent of all the valid votes cast, because it had obtained 13,000 votes more than the total of the votes obtained by ZNP and ZPPP combined. But yet, ASP had obtained only 13 seats, while the other two, with a combined lesser number of votes, won a total of eighteen seats. It is on record the Sir George Mooring, the last British Resident in Zanzibar; as well as Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the President of Tanganyika, both warned the British Government against granting independence in such controversial circumstances, but the warning was ignored; and the British went ahead to grant the instruments of independence to Sultan Jamshid Abdullah, at midnight on 9th December, 1963; who thus became the Head of State of independent Zanzibar. The final straw As far as the Afro-Shirazi party is concerned, the British action of granting independence to Sultan Jamshid following the 1963 general election, must have been the “straw that broke the camel’s back”. Preparations for the overthrow of the Sultan’s Government must have started very soon thereafter, which culminated in the successful revolution of January 12th, 1964, hardly a month after the country’s independence. This year’s revolution day celebrations are taking place a mere two years before the next general election next year, 2020. We all hope and pray (admittedly a forlorn hope, but a most fervent prayer), that the parties concerned will be able to sit together again, and agree to return to that heroic reconciliation pact, which was successfully worked out in 2010. May the Lord God hear our prayer..