CHINESE Beijing Engineering Company Ltd (BECL) in collaboration with a local investor, Ntoku Co Ltd, are set to secure a licence for mining investment in Misungwi District in which, among others, they will construct a gold smelter. During a tour of mining sites earlier this week, Ntoku Company Ltd Managing Director Christopher Eliufoo said plans were underway for his company and his Chinese partner to secure permits for the ambitious investment in two areas in Mbalika and Shilalo wards in the district. The two sites with 1.5 square kilometres and 2 square kilometres respectively have explored findings showing they have huge gold deposits ready for medium and small investments. “We plan to undertake medium investment in areas and if all goes well our companies will provide over 300 direct employment opportunities and skills transfer to small-scale mining groups,” he said. Misungwi District Executive Director (DED) Kisela Mabuba and Misungwi District Commissioner Juma Sweda were optimistic that anticipated investment would provide many socioeconomic advantages. DED Mabuba said Misungwi District Council had allocated total investment of 2,400 hectares for industrial investment, challenging local investors to utilise the opportunity and work in partnership with potential foreign investors. For his part, DC Sweda said the coming of the two investors was a result of a tour by former Minister for Minerals Angellah Kairuki of China early last year, where she invited business partners to come and invest in the vibrant mining sector in Tanzania. “It was during that tour, where BECL promised to invest in our district, while other companies showed interest as well to introduce different investment ventures elsewhere in the country,” said Mr Sweda. Mwanza Regional Resident Mines Officer Samwel Ayub said his office was aware of the companies’ interest in gold mining investment in Misungwi District. However, he said his office was waiting for them to complete all crucial steps, including securing mining development agreements (MDAs) and fulfilling other legal procedures as stipulated in the Mining Act, 2017. Mr Eliufoo was of the view that all stipulated legal procedures would be completed as soon as possible to pave a way for investment to take off by next month.