SINAJAMBO Mkonde Makame is an upcoming entrepreneur from Makunduchi- Kajengwa village, about 70 kilometres, South of Stone Town, who still remembers how the just ended international conference on promoting Kiswahili language, boosted her sales. Chama cha Ukuzaji wa Kiswahili Duniani (CHAUKIDU) - a Global Association for the Promotion of Swahili organised the fourth conference held in Zanzibar, but beside the forum, a trade show was organised for the local women entrepreneurs to display and sell their products. “I regard the conference as one of the best gathering because I sold all my goods (handcrafts bags and wallets) at the trade exhibition and my colleagues were grateful after managing to sell their commodities,” Ms Makame said. The conference attracted Kiswahili lecturers, teachers, students, writers and speakers from different parts of the World to discuss Kiswahili language and how to promote it, but they turned to be good customers for the women entrepreneurs. Ms Faa-Ida Mohamed Shaibu and Ms Ziyada Mshamba Jabir were other entrepreneurs who attended the trade show and sold most of their commodities to the conference participants. The goods sold by entrepreneurs include food spices, baobab fruits (ubuyu), spicy cassava chips and African fabric (Kitenge). The women expressed their happiness about the ‘two Day trade show’ beside the CHAUKIDU conference (from December 15th – 16th 2018) where they sold their made soap, bags and wallets, saying they wish more similar conference like that of the Kiswahili attracting more people from across the World take place frequently so that they sale the locally made goods. They said that it was a rare opportunity for them to interact with men and women from abroad, spreading Kiswahili and using the language to promote business locally and internationally as recommended by the Vice- President Samia Suluhu Hassan when opening the conference. “We were able to host new customers and also make profit, we thank the conference organizers. However, skills on improving the quality of our products and lack of reliable market to sell our goods are challenges we face,” says Ms Jabir. Entrepreneurs said that trade shows and trade fairs offer a rare platform where they could market and sell at the same time. Prior to the conference on December 15- 16, 2018, similar trade shows that benefited women entrepreneurs were organised in different areas of Zanzibar and also hope that more trade shows would be organised in 2019. Other exhibitions or trade shows that benefited women entrepreneurs in 2018 include the seven Days “Tanga Trade Exhibition” held last October followed by the East Africa Committee (EAC) Jua Kali/ Nguvu Kazi Exhibition 2018 held from 2nd -10th December. More than seven women engaged in handcraft and vegetable cluster, business in Unguja attended the shows outside Zanzibar Islands and there were also other trade shows organised in villages of Unguja (Dunga and Nungwi) and Pemba. During the events the business women also demonstrated how they process or manufacture some of their good such as how to make the chill sauce, lime and mango pickles and making baskets, handbags, hand-fan, from coconut leaves. The trade shows and exhibitions here were organised under the ‘Women Empowerment Zanzibar (WEZA II), a three and half year project which is in its third year of implementation since 2016, benefiting about 3,770 women and girls so far. The project aims at improving women entrepreneurs here by linking them with high profile markets and relevant Government agencies project and also to contribute to reducing poverty and improve social justice. “We want to ensure that many women’s lives are transformed from bad to better by the end of the project. Through their groups- ‘Income Generating Activities (IGAs)’ and women business committees grouped into four clusters: cosmetic/soap, vegetables, handcrafts and poultry,” said Ms Winnifred Yatuwa, projects coordinator. She said women and girls in Unguja and Pemba now have access market, control productive assets and formalize their enterprises. Thanks to Milele Zanzibar Foundation (MZF) and Canada Funds for Local Initiatives (CFLI) respectively for supporting the project implemented by Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA) - Zanzibar. Ms Yatuwa said many women are progressing for example the handcraft cluster was given the tender to supply the 150 hand-fans and that exhibitions have increased people’s awareness in search for market. The Coordinator thanked the development partners for also supporting ‘Village Saving & Loans (VSLs)’ groups in fighting poverty and that women are now engaged in various businesses like producing cosmetics which includes Soaps (Solid and Liquid), body cleansing products and skin lotions. Locally made massageoils, shampoo and hairstyling products (gel) and scrub, among many others are produced from Zanzibar’s cloves, lemon grass, turmeric, eucalyptus and seaweed, while sold handcrafts include shopping baskets and handbags. Laptop bags, table mats, basket covers, door mats, locally made hats, belts and other items made from different local raw materials were sold at the exhibition along with production and sale of hand woven bed sheets and pillow cases are also made. Poultry products are also sold and that in addition to the trade shows, the more than 5,015 women forming 280 VSLs groups engaged in IGAs also sell their products to the community, tourists hotels and shops. Coordinator Yatuwa said, “Already 61 groups of women in VSLs have access to working equipment or productive assets provided by the project such electric and manual sewing machines, incubators, heavy duty blenders, multi food processor, packaging and sealing machines, a soap factory stationed at Bambi.” Under the women empowerment project, women in their groups were trained during the period of implementation, to qualify for the registration. A total of 20 groups have been registered including two at national level. More than 40 mainstream markets have been reached, according to the women activists and these include super markets, retail shops, Hotels in Zanzibar both local and tourist hotels, Mainland, East Africa and Outside Africa (Muscat Oman), local mainstream markets that is Shimoni Market, Mwanakwerekwe in Unguja and Chake Chake in Pemba. The tourist hotels include: Pongwe Pwani, Jambani, Chwaka, Marumbi, Uroa, Paje, Kendwa-Nungwi, Tambo hotel and Shangani hotel among others; open market in Dunga village every last Saturday of the month and Sunday market at Mapinduzi Square, Mwembe-Kisonge Street. In addition to the public and open markets the project has rented five market stalls for the business clusters in five districts in Zanzibar three in Unguja and two in Pemba. These include a rented shop at Chaani-Mchezashauri,-North A district, Chwaka-Central district and Makunduchi- Unguja South Region. While in Pemba market stalls for business clusters have been placed at Kiungoni village- Wete district and Tumbe Magharibi. Women selling oyster fish (Chaza) have opened their shop in Kikungwi village (Unguja) and Umoja group in Pemba. The Canada Fund for Local Initiatives (CFLI) provides direct funding assistance to local non-governmental organisations and in exceptional cases, international NGOs and government institutions, for small projects addressing gender equality and women empowerment, democratic governance, climate change and environmental sustainability, security and stability among other issues. CFLI support can also be accessed in emergency situations to assist local organisations in providing humanitarian assistance in the aftermath of natural disasters and emergencies and also “stimulating sustainable economic growth, increasing food security, creating opportunities for children and youth, advancing democracy and ensuring security and stability.” Translated from Kiswahili to mean, “Forever Zanzibar Foundation”, Milele Zanzibar Foundation began in 2014 as a small initiative by a group of concerned individuals from Zanzibar and around the world to improve the quality of life for the people here.