Whenever the Zanzibar Ports Corporation (ZPC) stakeholders meet and deliberate on challenges facing Malindi seaport, inefficiency, delays, congestion and bureaucracy in cargo clearance are among major issues in the agenda. The stakeholders including economic researchers say that seaports, being a key segment of infrastructure providing place utility, have to perform efficiently and enhance trade attractiveness of a country. In response to the call from Stakeholders, ZPC started and already making strides in improving efficiency at the ports, mainly the Malindi Port in the Stone Town as the government solicits funds to construct a new sea port at Mpiga-Duri area. The Chinese government is expected to support the construction of the new port through a loan which, according to the laws regarding foreign loans, needs to be endorsed by the Union government as a guarantor. However, as we wait to have a modern sea port in the near future, ZPC management says it has been improving services at its ports to minimize complaints from exporters and importers of goods and also frequent travellers. ZPC Director General (DG), Captain Abdallah Juma says his corporation has recently managed to improve efficiency by purchasing equipment, which is already being utilized at the port. “There are noticeable changes at the sea ports in service provision,” he said. He said through corporate five-year plan, ZPC has bought some equipment and already has 75 percent of the required equipment at the ports. The equipment purchased last year include four ‘Reach Stacker,’ two port cranes for cargo handling, two terminal tractors, two terminal trailers, six Forklifts and Weigh Bridge. “Security at the port is also a priority, therefore we have also bought four scanners used for checking luggage, port berth, seven ‘solar powered navigation floating buoys,” Juma said adding that increase of revenue collection from 10.8bn/= in 2011 to 29.7bn/= in 2017 is an indication of development. He said the corporation also pays required tax and dividend to the government and that plans are underway to ensure that congestion of containers at Malindi port ends, by removing the empty containers from the port and shift (using semi trailer bought recently) to Mpiga-duri area, outskirts of stone town. Captain Juma said “We plan to buy more handling equipment (such as Pilot boat, barge, Mobile Crane, Reach Stacker, Forklift) and improve services at other developing ports of Mkokotoni, Wete and Wesha along with improving use of ICT by having ‘a local area network- LAN (a group of computers and associated devices that share a common communications line or wireless link to a server). According to the ZPC public relations officer, Mr Ibrahim Msabah, Malindi main port, which is about 60km North of Dar es Salaam, is run by Zanzibar Ports Corporation (ZPC) was built in 1920’s and refurbished in 2008. Malindi Port has a designed Handling Capacity of 160,000 tonnes general cargo, 25,000 tonnes liquid bulk cargo and that the Government’s vision is to serve as a regional transshipment hub, cater to the needs of the oil and gas sector as it pursues exploration off the coast of Pemba and to act as a processing hub for the deep sea fishing industry. Part of this vision includes the need to relocate domestic port facilities further from Stone Town to reduce congestion and provide space for development of commercial activities linked to the port, “But the proposed new port at Mpiga-duri, Maruhubi remains a major solution of congestion.” Mr Msabah said discussions are underway and MoU has been signed with the Chinese Harbour Engineering Company (CHEC) for design and construction of the Maruhubi Multipurpose Port located approximately two kilometres north of the existing Port of Malindi. “The new port would be developed in 2-3 phases, the first phase including development of a multi-purpose terminal capable of handling containers, general cargo and some bulk cargo as well as liquid bulk (oil) imports,” he said. He said that under the current plans, investment for Phase I of the new port development is estimated to be USD230 million including a USD200 million loan from China Ex-Im Bank, as well as close to USD30 million in equity provided by CHEC. The officer said that it is clear that Malindi Port is no longer able to accommodate the levels of both passenger and cargo traffic currently arriving to Zanzibar, considering projected future growth rates of containerized cargo and the port’s designed handling capacity. Congestion surrounding the port and inadequate storage space within the port causes continuous delays and a new multipurpose port is needed to replace the existing cargo port facilities. To address this need, the government is considering phased construction of a new multi-purpose commercial port at Maruhubi which would accommodate ships up to 50,000 dwt, with a total capacity of 250,000 tonnes of general cargo and 200,000 TEU through 2030. In order to provide a better understanding of the size and type of facilities needed to accommodate future growth in cargo traffic in Zanzibar, a high-level analysis of historical traffic at Malindi port was undertaken and projections for future traffic and revenues were developed based on historical growth trends.