Simba suffered the heaviest defeat in their Champions League history over the weekend. When they were beaten five goals to nil against their counterparts, AS Vita, from the Democratic Republic of Congo in a match played in Kinshasa. Simba were completely unable to deal with Vita’s marauding forwards and they could have suffered more had the Congolese team continued to press on against a disorganized defence which appeared not to know what it could do. From the word go, Simba did not have both the drive and the ability to deal with the Congolese players, individually and collectively, and it was therefore not surprising that they would end the match five goals down. Analysing Simba’s heavy defeat in Kinshasa, it was clear they lacked speed, strength, and more importantly, stamina. To me, from the way they played, it was crystal clear that they did not demonstrate a team that had been well prepared for the match against what I personally consider to be the strongest side in Group D. Because of lack of speed, strength and stamina to last the match, they were unable to keep the Congolese team’s cracking pace let alone police, effectively, their opponents. In fact, commonsense dictate that if you don’t have speed and strength coupled with stamina of a horse, you cannot keep up with your opponents’ cracking pace in a game. You would keep up with your opponents’ pace in the first 15 or so minutes, but the more the game progresses, your players would become tired and stupid mistakes will start creeping in and the result would be the kind of drubbing that Simba finally suffered. In a nutshell, Simba’s massive defeat against AS Vita in Kinshasa over the weekend was not only expected, but it was also of their own making, stemming as it did, from their bench’s lack of seriousness in preparing the team. It is not a secret that Simba, just like other teams that includes Taifa Stars and Serengeti Boys, have always lacked top-flight friendly matches. But surely, you don’t need top-flight friendly matches to build strength, speed, suppleness and stamina. The four magic S of speed, strength suppleness and stamina can be built through the effective and constant use of a gym manned by professional instructors and training on the pitch, that includes, among others, hours on end of passing game between two teams that are well monitored to ensure that literally all the players on the pitch keep on running and passing the ball. It’s through hours of training in the gym and under the eyes of professional instructors that Simba players could have developed their strength, through the development of thigh muscles (in order to strengthen their kicks and tackling) and other parts of their bodies. I watched Simba against their Algerian counterparts, JS Saoura, over two weeks ago; and I must admit, I was not impressed by their badly structured bodies which is undoubtedly a result of a badly structured training. And because I had watched the match between AS Vita and Al Ahly in Alexandria, I was literally not surprised by the heavy defeat they suffered at the hands of the Congolese club. The problem with Tanzania soccer teams, that includes Taifa Stars, is that they don’t work hard on what are arguably soccer’s basics, speed, strength, suppleness and stamina. I have times without number reproduced in my columns what the former Taifa Stars’ celebrated Taifa Stars, Simba and Young Africans coach, Syllersaid Mziray, used to say, namely, the need for our teams to also concentrate on the four S, but to no avail. I have described Mziray as the celebrated coach because to date he remains the only Tanzanian soccer coach to have coached, at different times, Simba and Young Africans and proceeded on to win against either of the two sides. No Tanzanian coach has done that in history because most of them have failed to suppress their love for either or the two clubs. Something that has made it extremely difficult for them to rise above the stupid Simba, Yanga politics which have unfortunately done more damage to the country’s soccer development and growth, again to quot e the great Mziray, than anything. Mziray who has since passed on, used to say that the difference, in terms of performance, between top Tanzanian soccer clubs like Simba and Young Africans with the top west and north African soccer teams like Ghana’s Asante Kotoko, Tunisia’s Esperance and Egypt’s Al Ahly, just to mention a few, was very little. He argued that it was because of such small differences that teams like Simba and Young Africans would, once in while, spring up surprises by beating some of the former continental club champions. Indeed, we all remember how Simba eliminated another Egypt’s giants, Z amalek, on their own backyard in Cairo. Simba had twice, in the past, beaten Al Ahly in Mwanza and Dar es Salaam in the Champions League tournament before they were themselves later eliminated from the tournament. Next week Simba will fly to the Egyptian capital to take on arguably masters of diving in penalty boxes, Al Ahly, and if they can do what I have repeatedly told them to do in my sports columns, work hard on their speed, strength, suppleness and stamina starting this week. They should be best placed to deal with the Arabs who have made a profession from hoodwinking foreign referees, especially from their own region. Simba need to go back to the video between Al Ahly and AS Vita in Alexandria, if they want to deal with their next opponents. All the two goals scored by Al Ahly against the tough, Congolese club and after they had lost their right-full back, Charles Kalonji after being red-carded for a foul that was neither here nor there, were gifted to them by the Tunisian referee. In fact, had the ten-man Congolese club not played well and very strongly in that match, they could have gone by more than five goals. What Simba needs to know is that playing against Egyptian clubs or the national team you are playing against twelve players, including the referee who would more often than not come from the same Maghreb region. Things are however, different in other countries in the north, Algeria, Libya, Tunisia, Morocco. They usually don’t resort to dirty tricks. The Egyptian soccer authorities need to educate their players because they are doing an irreparable damage to the otherwise very good name of that country.