Athletics Tanzania (AT) and its stakeholders have approved Arusha and Coast regions as the places where the national athletics teams will pitch residential camp in readiness for this year’s international competitions. The decision was reached during the meeting held in Arusha recently. The meeting which involved the AT, athletes and stakeholders discussed various issues concerning the development of the sport as well as preparations for major events lined up for this year. AT president, Anthony Mtaka said; “We’ve agreed that the national team which will be picked for long distance events will pitch camp in Arusha, whereas the team for the short distance races will camp at Mkuza in Kibaha, Coast region. “We want this year to be of great success for athletics and athletes in general and as the sport leaders we want to create a conducive environment for our athletes to flourish,” Mtaka said. Mtaka said that athletes will enter camp early ahead of the three major international events in order to keep them in good shape to win top honours. Mtaka said the two training camps are expected to commence next week. According to the AT Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday, international events lined for this year include the World Cross Country Championship to be staged at Aarhus, Denmark and Africa Athletics Championship to be hosted in Casablanca, Morocco. He said Tanzania will also send team to the world’s biggest athletics showcase the 17th edition of the IAAF World Championships to be held from September 27th to October 6th this year in Doha, Qatar. During the meeting, Chairman of the Tanzania Athletes Commission, Amani Ngoka, suggested that the camp for long distance races to be in Arusha and short distance in Coast region due to conducive weather, which will facilitate smooth athletes’ preparations. On his side, runner Michael Gwandu also supported the proposed long distance camp be pitched Arusha due to its conducive climate and environment including friendly infrastructure for training.