NORWEGIAN Church Aid (NCA)—a non-governmental organisation—plans to start using agricultural drones against diseases and insects that destroy crops, subjecting majority farmers in the country to serious economic challenges. The technology will be introduced as a pilot project in Morogoro region’s Kilombero and Mvomero districts and will be used to spray fertiliser and insecticides as one of the solutions against the challenges. NCA Programme Manager Gilbert Mworia, speaking at the receipt of Inter Religion Village Community Bank’s (IR VICOBA) reports here yesterday, said in the Northern Zone one of NCA projects was executed under the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania-Northern Diocese (ELCT-ND). “We have been supporting farmers in agricultural activities in almost 11 districts in the country in finding solutions to the challenges they face…we want them to increase production. During the last agricultural season, we had 3,000 farmers in our project, with most of them facing the challenge of army worms that destructed their crops. We have come with this innovation to solve the problem,” noted Mr Mworia. He further said that the drone will help farmers to spray fertilisers and insecticides on a large area but within a short period, unlike the current tedious and time consuming method. Mr Mworia said the 40m/- drone comes from South Africa and is expected to arrive in the country by January 23, 2019, hinting that the NGOs is currently working on the government permits to import the gadgets. According to Mr Mworia, the new technology of agricultural drone is expected to save 10,000 farmers in 11 regions where NCA agricultural projects are implemented. He said that NCA has signed a contract with Sokoine University Graduates Entrepreneurs Cooperative (SUGECO) to run and supervise the pilot project. NCA Project Coordinator in the Northern Zone Reverend Andrew Munisi explained that the Economic Empowerment project, through IR-VICOBA has helped to eradicate poverty among peasants. He said in the Northern Zone, there were 473 IR VICOBA groups in some districts where the project is implemented and one of their strategic plans was to have more youth groups. Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (ELCT) Secretary General, Northern Dioceses, Arthur Shoo said there is opportunity to perform better, calling for creativity and cooperation among members. He said that some people were only lamenting on lack of reliable markets for agricultural products instead of using their fellow group members to establish business networks.