Simba left yesterday for Democratic Republic of Congo confident to post positive results against hosts AS Vita, in their group D encounter of CAF Champions League at Complexe Omnisports stade des Martyrs in Kinshasa tomorrow. Simba, who left early yesterday morning with a contingent of 30 people including 19 players are said to be well focused on tomorrow’s game, which is predicted to be tough because Simba will be facing a ‘wounded bull’. While Simba will go into the match buoyed with their empathic 3-0 win in their group D opener against Algeria’s JS Saoura at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Saturday, AS Vita succumbed to a 2-0 defeat at the hands of Egypt’s Al Ahly in Alexandria on the same day. However, going by the way Vita played against Al Ahly away, Simba will need to be at their best and will require stamina of the horse in order to survive their opponents’ onslaught in Kinshasa. Certainly, AS Vita will be looking for a bounce back at home, Simba, however, have already affirmed that they will be disciplined and also play a cautious game. “We are going to Kinshasa with one target, to get positive results… we know an uphill task await us there because we are facing a good team, which has lost its previous game, so we need to work hard and focus on our game plan,” said a club official. The Msimbazi Reds Head Coach, Belgian Patrick Aussems said that they have much respect on their opponents as one of the continent best and experienced sides but they do not fear them. He insisted that they will battle hard to post positive results away. Simba players, who made the trip to Kinshasa, are Aishi Manula, Deogratius Munishi, Nicholas Gyan, Mohamed Hussein, Pascal Wawa, Jjuuko Murshid, Paul B ukaba, Jonas Mkude, James Kotei and Clatous Chama. Others are Hassan Dilunga, Haruna Niyonzima, Mzamiru Yassin, Mohamed Ibrahim, Shiza Kichuya, Rashid Juma, Emmanuel Okwi, Adam Salamba and Meddie Kagere. Skipper, John B occo will miss the match due to injuries. Bocco was stretched out of the pitch after sustaining injury in the first half of last Saturday’s match against JS Saoura. Aussems side will also continue to miss the service of their experienced and versatile defender, Erasto Nyoni, who is still nursing injury he picked during the recently ended Mapinduzi Cup. Nyoni is expected to return back in action early February. Despite their underdog tag, Simba together with Algerian Constantine boast the best attack in CAF Champions League so far with Simba scoring 15 goals in four qualifiers and in their opening group stage match. Kagere has scored six goals, Clatous Chama netted four times, while B occo and Emmanuel O kwi have scored two goals each. Midfielder, Jonas Mkude has scored one in the campaign so far. Simba, who are the only East African club remaining in CAF Champions group stage, sit top of group D, ahead of Ahly, tied on three points but the Msimbazi Reds are ahead on superior goal difference. However, they will face serious examinations of their title credentials this weekend as Vita Club are likely to provide much tougher opposition compared to JS Saoura. AS Vita Assistant Coach, Raoul Shungu, who formerly coached Young Africans from 1998 to 2001, cautioned Simba that they will face a complete different side from the team which played against Al Ahly. Shungu was quoted as saying that in their previous game they missed some of their key players who were on injury list but they are now fit for tomorrow’s game. Shungu is eager to see Vita restore their winning form. In another group D match to be held later today, record eighttime champions Al Ahly will look to on-loan Ramadan Sobhi for goals away to struggling JS Saoura as they aim to improve on a mediocre record in Algeria.