The year 2019 has begun well with us in this country. We will soon be available on all major global capitals – thanks to the elevation of our national airline - Air Tanzania. We now have a fleet of long-distance airplanes –with the modern day airbuses and bombardiers of this world. And pretty soon we will have close to a dozen of them. The other day, on the first week of this month of the New Year, our President, Dr John Magufuli was at the Dar es Salaam International Airport to receive yet another long-distance aircraft; right from Canada. According to the President, the growing fleet of local and international flight airplanes has been bought on cash and outright by his government. This has prompted a long sigh of relief to nationals of this country that the days were teased to be walking around with a bowl in hand begging for aid, but now the days are gone. Never, since the days of the Founder President of this country, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere has there been a President who has commanded both awe and admiration, as is the current President, John Joseph Pombe Magufuli – his stance for economic independence being one of his virtues at the heart of the people of this country. He is on the lips of ordinary men and women of this country, young and old, referring to him with awe and admiration – awe in the sense of someone with extraordinary courage – capable of touching the untouchables; bent on a myriad of vices. “ He has locked up every loophole and thrown the keys into the ocean,” one hears ordinary people say jokingly when referring to their President unprecedented drive to deal with an erstwhile blossoming lootocracy and graft before he assumed power - and revering on his surname which translates as “ padlocks” in English. President Magufuli has had a special name for those mixed up in graft and stealing public funds. He has called them “ boils” whose Kiswahili word eq uivalent is “ majipu” ! Indeed, he has been very busy getting rid of “boils” only one year on after assuming office to the applause and jubilation of ordinary people of his country! Entering the fourth year since he was sworn into office, he has earned for himself and the country a good name positively reflective of the old good days of the founding Administration of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Peace and stability seems to be on the reign as before unlike other countries in Africa. It is thanks to his assumption of office as President that Tanzanians have known the extent of a lootocracy that had been in place hitherto. One case in point is the level of looting that had been taking place at the Dar es Salaam harbour, for instance. Oh! Good Lord! Billions of shillings, if not more have ended up in private pockets of individuals in strategic jobs at the place, working for state institutions such as the Tanzania Port Authority, Tanzania Harbours Corporation and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Most remarkably was his action against shiploads of our minerals that had been shipped out of the country with wanton abandon, as if they were shiploads of useless sand! But there are other virtues unique to President Magufuli, which have made his administration comparatively unique. He has imposed discipline in public finance expenditure. Over and above this feature, we now have free education for all starting with Primary Schools onwards. The country is improving its roads and railways infrastructure to admirable levels across its breadth and length along with the availability of power in rural areas, where 80 per cent of the country’s population is found. He has sought to minimize official trips by officials of his government abroad starting with himself. In his first year in office, he chose to stay home, visiting neighbouring countries only continuing his financial discipline to this day. Clearly, one sees light at the end of the day in so far as Tanz ania’s traditional policy of selfreliance and given the fact that Tanzania’s national budget has been 40 per cent foreign dependent. If his Administration will move on the way it has been moving in the last three years in terms of financial discipline, it is certainly a foregone conclusion this country’s national budget will not depend on foreign aid any more in the long run. One case in point as we have seen is the capability of the Magufuli Administration to use the country’s own resources to buy planes for our national airline without waiting for aid. This is another indicator that this country has not been that poor after all, especially with the abundance of natural resources such as minerals. The way forward in my opinion is to revive the public sector that will take care of the interests of the people of this country economically, rather than leaving everything in the hands of private hands from foreign lands.