THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday acquitted former Director General (DG) with Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC), Tido Mhando, who was facing five counts of abuse of position and occasioning loss of over 887m/- to his employer. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi declared the veteran journalist as innocent after the prosecution miserably failed to prove the charges against him beyond reasonable doubt as required in criminal cases. After the court session, Mhando, who is currently the Chief Executive Officer of Azam Media Limited, could not hold back his tears. He left the court premises immediately thereafter without saying any word, with his relatives, friends and other journalists. The prosecution led by officer with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Mr Leonard Swai, expressed their intention to appeal at the High Court against the verdict. The prosecutor requested the court to supply him with the typed copy of proceedings and judgment for the purpose. During the trial, the prosecution called five witnesses in an attempt to prove the charges, while Mhado defended himself. Delivering the verdict, the magistrate noted availability of evidence suggested that Mhando had signed four contracts involving the TBC when he was the Director General. He observed that such contracts related to joint venture for operating and broadcasting television programmes, digital terrestrial broadcasting, purchase, supply, installing transmission equipment and broadcast towers and operating broadcast infrastructure. The magistrate was, however, quick to rule that such agreements purported to have been signed by Mhando involving the state owned corporation had no legal force as they were not endorsed by relevant authorities, including the Attorney General (AG). Under the circumstances, therefore, the magistrate said the court could not find any tangible evidence to link the accused with any of the claims as suggested by the prosecution in the charges. The magistrate, therefore, proceeded to acquit him forthwith for lack of evidence. Mhando appeared before the court for the first time to answer the charges on January 26, 2018 and pleaded “not guilty.” He was granted bail on conditions of depositing in court cash bond of 444m/- or title deeds on immovable property certifies at the same amount. It was alleged that Mhando committed the offences between June 16 and November 16, 2008 in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Being an employee of TBC, he is alleged to have intentionally in the discharge of his functions abused his position as Director General by signing different agreements. Such agreements between the TBC and Channel 2 Group Corporation (BVI) related to joint venture for operating and broadcasting television programmes, digital terrestrial broadcasting, purchase, supply, installing transmission equipment and broadcast towers and operating broadcast infrastructure. The prosecution told the court that Mhando signed the agreements in question without invitation of tenders, an act which was in violation of the provision of section 31 of the Public Procurement Act, No. 21 of 2004, thereby causing Channel 2 Group Corporation to obtain undue advantage. It is alleged further that within the same period at UAE, being an employee of TBC, as Director General, by his willful acts, Mhando caused his employer to suffer pecuniary loss amounting to 887,122,219/19. However, when presenting his defence testimony, the ex-TBC boss trashed the prosecution’s claims, insisting that the TBC Board of Directors in the transformation project of the state owned Corporation from analog to digital terrestrial broadcasting programmes was fully involved. He told the court that as the Director General with the TBC, he did not do anything without the consent of the board, as it is the same board that instructed him to do the initial original process before handing over the matter after completing the preliminary arrangements in 2009. In regards to the claims on agreements he allegedly entered with the two companies, the seasoned journalist clarified that he had signed the contract with Channel 2 Company just to assure them of their involvement in the project, while that of StarTimes Company was final after the approval of the board. “The initial agreement between TBC and the Channel 2 Company of Dubai was signed by me as Tido because they wanted to be assured of their participation in the process,” he conclusively testified. After expiry of his contract with TBC in 2010, Mhando joined Mwananchi Communications Limited as Managing Editor where he worked for about four years after which his employment services came to an end. In December 2014, he joined Azam Media Limited. Before joining TBC, Mhando was the Head of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Swahili Service. With over a 40-year experience in the media and one of the best known voices in East Africa, Mhando is a well-known and highly respected figure in the broadcast industry across the region and internationally. Having started his career as a DJ on Radio Tanzania, he then joined the BBC in 1985 as its first Swahili correspondent in Nairobi. A rapid rise through BBC saw him move to London in 1991 to work in the international radio headquarters at Bush House. He became the first African Head of Swahili Service Over the years, he achieved a high level of respect from journalists in Swahili-speaking countries for the depth and quality of his work which has seen him reporting from the heart of key events in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Tanzania and Uganda. Mhando is one of a few East African journalists to have interviewed current and former East and Central African presidents. They include DR Congo President Joseph Kabila, Mwai Kibaki before he became President of Kenya and his predecessor, Daniel Arap Moi. Others are Rwandan Presidents Paster Bizimungu and Paul Kagame, Ugandan Presidents Idi Amin and Yoweri Museveni and Zanzibar Presidents Salmin Amour and Amani Karume. In 1990, he was the first journalist to report the disappearance and eventual death of the then Kenyan foreign minister, Dr Robert Ouko, and in January 2001 he was the last journalist to interview President Laurent Kabila of DR Congo. Their long discussion took place just weeks before his assassination. Mhando started his broadcasting career as a DJ with Radio Tanzania, later becoming its popular sports commentator and presenter. He has also reported for a number of broadcasters, including Deutsche Welle, Voice of America and Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, known at that time as the Voice of Kenya