THE Government should set aside some funds to finance meals in schools instead of the institutions fully banking on parents to voluntarily feed their kids, as it is the current system. The piece of advice was made yesterday by Mvuleni Primary School Headmaster, Mr Mark Tarimo, while presiding over a year review of the ‘Reduction of Gender-Based Violence and Reproductive Health for School Girls’ pilot project in Moshi Town. “There are many parents and guardians who still do not want to contribute for their children’s meals in schools, despite the government’s elaborate concern to address the major issue… under the current free education system,” he said. Mr Tarimo said that teachers find it difficult when they see some pupils getting their lunch in school, while others are left with nothing, simply because their parents or guardians have failed to contribute for their meals while still in school, adding that “for the sake of uniformity, the government should chip in and offer them free meals.” Commenting on the reviewed project, he said that it has proved to be a great success and presented many students with a forum to better understand their basic rights, especially those related to education. In her submission on the pilot project, the Project Manager, Ms Immaculate Mworia from KWIECO, said the assignment turned out to be an eye opener to many students, especially girls whom, she said are now aware of issues related to their reproductive health. “In this project, parents have been involved on knowledge sharing concerning the importance of the reproductive health to their children, and many have promised to start a follow-up of their children’s whereabouts, and also talk to them. This is a move which is a big step in reducing gender violence to children including that of sexual abuse. “During the implementation of this one year pilot project, students, especially girls used the opportunity to express themselves and their concerns in relation to reproductive health. They learnt among other things that outdated traditional cultures, customs and misconceptions were some of the obstacles, which prevented them from discussing reproductive health issues openly,” she said. One of the beneficiaries of the project, and also a Mvuleni Primary School pupil, Haeswa Omar including others from the Moshi based Mandaka Teachers’ College, said that the education she and her colleagues acquired from the training, enlightened them on their rights to education as children. “This project also enabled me to discuss the findings with a colleague of mine on her right to have education; she went to discuss the issue again with her parents, who decided to send her to school just like other students,” she pointed out. The project was conducted by Kilimanjaro Women Information Exchange and Community Organisation (KWIECO) in Kilimanjaro Region based in Moshi, A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), and facilitated by the Canadian based NGO – Crossroads International.