Arriving at Kigali International Airport for the first time, I immediately understood why Rwanda is dubbed as the land of a thousand hills. I kept on seeing hills around me, a scenery which had an air of romance about it. With all the hills, the airport emerged out of nowhere as if someone just placed it there a minute before. Landing at around 8 pm at Kigali Airport, the air was so fresh and cool. Riding to the hotel, the magnificent hills blazed with the moonlight and night lights were just breathtaking with roads well set. Although the beauty was stunning I couldn’t stop thinking about my little chocolata. It was hard leaving her for the first time thinking I will be away for three whole days. Sadly the option of staying was out of the question, saying to myself I will have to leave her someday, and today might as well be it. As I handed my nine-nonth old baby to her grandmother my thoughts were thinking of when I will re-unite with her. I love travelling. The thrill of visiting new places and meeting new people, getting to experience different cultures always entices me. This trip was a little different from travels I have done before. I got to experience the anxiety a mother gets. So as usual, I received the trip with joy as I was travelling to a new land. I had never been to Kigali and all I could hear was how clean and beautiful it was with serene environment. Knowing my flight would leave at 19 hours, I was there two hours early although I had already checked in on line. But instead of going in, intending to spend every second I could with my munchkin before taking off I was outside breastfeeding. Only to come realize that it was thirty minutes before time. Rushing inside, searching for Rwandair counter only to be told that it closed thirty minutes ago. I got confused and was looking for someone to speak with to help me with the situation but no one was around and the booking office was closed. I took a deep breath and thought, the plane is still there, it has not taken off, and I need to find a way to get to it. So I entered inside again, went to the migrations and told them the situation and they permitted me to go to the boarding doors to check if I could board. Sprinting off like a mad woman one of the migration officers joked about my situation helping me to lighten the mood as I was at the verge of panicking, thinking I came way before time only to be late, how insane would that sound? Luckily the people at the boarding gates where still there and they didn’t ask why I was late but talked among themselves and the controller at the air craft and finally one of the personnel, who seemed to be the leader asked me to follow him. Heading to the aircraft I said all kind of prayers thanking God that I was going to board the plane. As we walked towards it, he looked at me and said, “Mary, you have managed to board the plane this time, but if this ever happens again don’t dare pass the check in counter.” With such a stern warning and biding me a safe journey I was ever so grateful to have finally sat in the plane ready to take off. Being a journalist and a person in love with nature I was ready to experience and live every second of the three day workshop I was attending and not let anything pass me by. The workshop itself was of scientist journalists, discussing on current situation of Africa on diseases and how it is faring up on SDGs themed ‘in the pink or the red’. Including over 20 journalists across African countries and India, prepared by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) together with Media for Environment, Science, Health and Agriculture (MESHA), the workshop was more than enlightening as it brought crucial things to my attention. Enough about the workshop let us get to the beauty of the country. It was a happier realization as i woke up and opened the curtains of my hotel room, standing at the terrace my eyes were mesmerized with the eye catching view of the hills lying majestic in the distance impressively making the horizon an eye catching image you want to store forever. Being graced with such beauty in the morning, I could feel a flow of words trickling down in my thoughts like beautiful poem. The marvelous view where the first light of day touched the splendid aesthetic green hills with a scent of fresh cool air surrounding the entire environment could surely make an artistic person use such a scenery as a muse to overflow with perfect art. This reminded me of how much I love to wake up in an unfamiliar place and be overwhelmed by its scenery. I got to make new encounters with people across Africa, where I got to experience various cultures of warm welcoming people. I was able to exchange stories and experiences which were somewhat a little surprising or dazzling for lack of a better word. For instance a lady from Ghana got my attention as she told a story on how they would keep a corpse for six months or more before burial so that they could offer a proper burial ceremony to the deceased. I got to see Tanzania in a whole different perspective as well through small talks and discussion with colleagues and experts on media, and health issues. This made me more proud to be called a Tanzanian. The discussion was on when most African countries being divided by tribalism, while Tanzania is embracing the difference brought by tribes and do not regard it as a dividing factor. It made me really grateful of our founding father, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere on how he was able to unite the country and the citizens feeling like we are all the same, no one was better than the other. All in all Tanzanians got to know the special talents each tribe has, one tribe would formulate jokes with another tribe normally dubbed as ‘mtani’ and all would be well and bring the tribes even closer. We are one big family with different talents and characters making a more special country. Tanzania as a country might have its shortcomings but in this we are proud to have removed this aspect of colonialism. The highlight of my trip was on how clean Kigali was. The cities had no littering at all. Whether tar mark or rough roads, neither in the city center nor villages that I was able to visit, they were squeaky clean. I was also able to visit The Kigali Genocide Memorial which was an emotional draining experience. Seeing pictures of what went on during that time and reading displays describing the event needed someone to be ready. May be that is why they started with a short film which had victims telling their stories, just to prepare people of what was coming ahead. I am in love with the traditional dresses Rwandese has, especially the silkiness of the fabrics. I also got to ride a bodaboda and to my surprise they were all of the same kind and only carried a single passenger while wearing helmets. I got to witness and realized that cleanliness starts with a single person with the help of enforcements and facilities from the government a clean country can be achieved, and it is evident that it is possible. I couldn’t wait to come home but also wanted to add at least a day to tour more. Preparing for the trip back, I did not want the history to repeat itself, so I checked in ready for boarding two hours before departure. I was there before time. With a pleasant flight I arrived home safely and was met with my angle, whom apparently refused to sleep. And from the time I arrived, she did not want to let go of me. She held tight fearing I might leave again. What a trip! It was an experience that I was glad I participated in. Thanks to CSE and MESHA who made it possible and for preparing such a fruitful informative and educative workshop. Well! Would I do this again? Most definitely, my passport is ready for the next adventure.