KILIMANJARO Christian Medical Centre (KCMC) has through distribution of free skin lotions rescued at least 6,000 people with albinism from skin damages and cancer as a result of sun burning. The skin requires melanin for protection from the harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays of the sun. But, people with albinism do not have adequate amounts of melanin, and they are prone to sun-related skin damages like sunburn and skin cancer. Actinic changes include fine wrinkling, yellowish discoloration, leathery thickening and dilated capillaries branches, which appear as clusters of the tiny red streaks on the skin surface. The best treatment for these actinic changes is prevention. It is difficult to reverse the changes with chemical or surgical treatments KCMC referral hospital, under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP), has been producing the albino skin lotion for charity in the past six years to help people with albinism to protect their skins from sun burning. According to KCMC Department of Dermatology Head Dr Daudi Mavura, the number of beneficiaries has been increasing annually since the hospital started a programme to supply the oil six years ago. Dr Mavura noted that in the past three years, the hospital managed to increase the number of beneficiaries from 4000 to 6000. He said the institute spends at least 25,000/- to produce and deliver the Kilimanjaro Suncare branded oil to each beneficiary. “Most of the imported oil brands are lighter than ours, so they are less efficient,” said Dr Mavura. He was speaking with the ‘Daily News’ recently when a team of public relations officers from institutions under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children visited the hospital to hear from the management about the successes recorded during the three years of President John Magufuli. Kilimanjaro Suncare Production Manager Engineer Ebenezer Fabian said when production started, only 25 people with albinism were benefiting. The hospital produces two types of lotions for children and adults.