NATIONAL Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai yesterday summoned the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Professor Mussa Assad before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee over his recent remarks against the legislature. While in abroad last week, Prof Assad was quoted by one of the foreign radio stations as saying, “Tanzanian parliament is weak.” Aggrieved by the statement, Mr Ndugai convened a press conference here and launched a scathing attack to the CAG, demanding him to appear before the parliamentary committee on January 21 for interrogation to justify his statement. The House Speaker also summoned Kawe legislator Halima Mdee to appear before the same committee on January 22 over her support to the CAG statement while responding to questions by the radio station in the United States. Mr Ndugai told a full packed press conference that after subjecting the two to intensive grilling, the committee will advise him on the matter, adding that the House had been denigrated by the statements made by the duo in separate occasions. “We are deeply saddened by the statement by the CAG while abroad where he was supposed to defend the country’s image. It should be noted that we, as parliament are ready for criticisms but not defamation,” said the Speaker. According to Ndugai, the CAG was responding to a question by a presenter of a US-based radio station where he categorically stated that although his office was submitting audit reports after doing its tremendous job, the august House was not effectively working out on his reports as required by the law. “His (the CAG) response to the radio presenter that if parliament was not working out effectively on the reports, that could only be termed as the parliament’s weakness,” observed Mr Ndugai, adding that the CAG office was responsible to advise the parliament on appropriate steps to take. Mr Ndugai pointed out that the lawmakers were carrying out their duties effectively in advising the government, saying officers from the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT), which Professor Assad heads, have unrestricted access to oversight committees of the parliament. “NAOT officers are sub-officials of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Local Authorities’ Accounts Committee (LAAC) which receive and examine the CAG reports. The officers are the ones who advise the committees on actions that the parliament can undertake,” he said.