WHILE the East African Community (EAC) member States have condemned last week’s attack at DusitD2 Hotel in Nairobi that left at least 21 people dead and scores injured, Tanzania has refuted some media reports circulating that it was one of the countries harbouring Al-Shabaab terrorist cells. In recent times, a video clip from CCTV-Africa has been making rounds on social media, misguidedly linking the most stable East African nation with the terror group. A statement issued yesterday by the Director General of Tanzania Information Service, MAELEZO, Dr Hassan Abbasi, said the fake report was aired in 2016 and is baseless. “The information was extracted from a 53-paged report prepared by The Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), which however, was not research based. It was a mere opinion from a section of people in Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia,” reads the statement in part. After consultation with the CCTV-Africa, Dr Abbasi noted that the media house refuted to have played part in re-circulating the clip. “It is obvious that the group of people with ill-motives with our country are the ones circulating the video just to fulfil their agenda,” he said. Dr Abbasi noted that while the government and CCTV-Africa were taking relevant measures on that, the “public is advised to pay no attention to such reports aimed at tarnishing our image.” He assured Tanzanians that the country was safe and security organs were alert to ensure that any peace breaching sign is ‘tamed in advance’. In a condolence message published on its website yesterday, EAC Secretary General Ambassador Libérat Mfumukeko described last Tuesday’s attacks in Kenya as total chaos that dealt huge blow to the civilization values of today’s world, including the right of every human being to live and express oneself freely. “I take this opportunity to express my strongest condemnation of this and all other terrorist attacks solely aimed at taking human life,” noted the EAC Secretary General. The EAC boss says in his condolence message that he learnt about the attack with deepest regret and utter disbelief. “On behalf of the EAC and on my own behalf, allow me to offer most profound condolences over the loss of innocent lives. It is hard to find words of comfort to those who lost their beloved ones,” commiserated the EAC boss. The EAC Secretary General asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to convey to the bereaved families and friends the secretariat’s sincere sympathies, also wishing the injured a speedy recovery. Last Wednesday, Tanzania President John Magufuli pledged his support in a message to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Likewise, in his meeting with Kenyan National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi last Thursday, Tanzania’s Speaker Job Ndugai assured his counterpart of their support following the ambush at DusitD2 Hotel in Riversides, Nairobi. “We stand in solidarity with you during this moment,” Speaker Ndugai explained. The East African region is not strange to terrorist attacks of such magnitude. In August 1998, two simultaneous attacks on US embassies in both, Dar es Salaam and Nairobi claimed the lives of 224 people. More than 5,000 were wounded in the twin attacks. In July 2010, coordinated bombings killed more than 70 people in Uganda as crowds gathered to watch the final match of the World Cup. The bombs exploded during a football match between Spain and the Netherlands, striking a popular Ethiopian restaurant and a rugby field, where large screens had drawn hundreds of spectators. Three years ago, Kenya suffered yet deadly attack on its soil when 21 terrorists attacked the Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi leaving at least 67 people killed and 175 injured.