The date of 22nd January, 2019, fell on Tuesday of last week. I wish to make it known that that day was, in fact, the anniversary date of Mwalimu Nyerere’s resignation as Prime Minister of Tanganyika, precisely 57 years ago. But, as has been the case in all the past years, the significance of that date quickly passed unnoticed, as if it has no significance whatsoever, and is therefore of no consequence! But, in my humble opinion, and specifically for the purpose of maintaining a correct record of Tanzania’s political history, Mwalimu Nyerere’s ‘surprise’, or ‘shocking’ action which was taken on that date, is certainly worthy of remembrance, for two good reasons. In the first place, it is an important historical date, but secondly, and even more significant, is that this action alone, clearly distinguishes Mwalimu Nyerere’s unique leadership style, from that of many of his peers, both past and present; who, as we all know, have cultivated an insatiable greed for power, such that once they have acquired power, they will resort to all sorts of tricks, even including foul ones, in order to remain in power. It is therefore important, especially for the present generation, to be made aware of that unique voluntary leadership resignation event, which actually constitutes an important lesson by Mwalimu Nyerere, for others to follow. This lesson is fully expressed in his little book titled TUJISAHIHISHE; which he wrote soon after his resignation from the Premiership. In that book, he listed a number of ‘makosa’, i.e. mistakes; which he said must be avoided by all TANU leaders and followers. He termed the first of such mistake as “Ubinafsi”, or self-centeredness; which he described in the following words (translated from Kiswahili): “With the exception of a few catastrophic events, whose occurrence is beyond the power of human beings to prevent such as flood and droughts; many of the other problems are caused largely by peoples’ self-centeredness; and this usually takes a variety of forms and appearances. For example, sometimes we hear people asking this question: ‘what does the future hold for us? In many cases, such questions are motivated primarily by personal self-interests, for there are those who think that TANU was formed for their personal benefits. They seem to believe that TANU has a contractual obligation to reward them; by seeming to forget (or, maybe, to deliberately ignore), the fact that TANU was formed only in order to benefit the whole community. This social trend is dangerous, for If our members, especially those who hold leadership positions, fail to judge our party’s usefulness on the basis of services rendered to the community; and instead, decide to judge it on the basis of how it satisfies their personal ambitions and desires; then the party will not last very long”. Thus, from these words, it can be correctly inferred that when Mwalimu Nyerere resigned from the Premiership, he was actually giving a practical lesson to TANU leaders and followers, regarding the importance of not using the party for personal benefits. President Nyerere’s leadership characteristics We may as well take this opportunity to recall, albeit briefly, Mwalimu Nyerere’s other unique leadership characteristics. Julius Nyerere has been variously described, by scholars and other objective observers, as a humanist politician; a statesman and thinker; an ardent believer in peace; and a unique mobilizer of people. Plus also as a modest man in his personal life; who abhorred pomposity in his official life. The then Prime Minister Julius Nyerere’s action of resigning from the Premiership of newly independent Tanganyika, just about a month after that country had achieved its independence was, no doubt at all, a historical event of substantial significant importance. That is why it generated many unsolicited comments from a variety of people, who mainly expressed ‘shock, surprise and disbelief’ from across the board; some of which included certain wild, unfounded speculations, alleging that Nyerere might have been kicked out of power by some power hungry elements within his own party, TANU; which also started circulating. However, as will be shown below, all these allegations were absolutely baseless. The general shock and surprise caused by Prime Minister Julius Nyerere’s action, was succinctly summarized by one John Hatch, in his book titled “Two African Statesmen: Kaunda of Zambia and Nyerere of Tanzania” (Martin Secker & Waburg, London); as follows:- “It is virtually unknown for a politician to surrender his office voluntarily. It is certainly unique for a man to lead his country into independence, and then immediately retire from the leading position. Inevitably therefore, speculation over the cause of his unprecedented spread rapidly throughout the country, and far beyond. Naturally, it was widely assumed that he had been driven out of office by his critics in the Party, and the Trade Unions who had openly opposed him during the months preceding independence, particularly regarding his tolerant racial policy.” But, in fact, all of that was mere speculation which was totally misguided. As the charismatic leader he truly was, Julius Nyerere was in such a strong position that no one person, or group of persons, could possibly succeed in ousting him from power. There were, indeed, certain persons who opposed his tolerant racial policies; and this was clearly manifested during the Legislative Council debate on the Tanganyika citizenship Bill on 18th October, 1961; during which, considerable opposition was indeed expressed to those clauses of the Bill which enabled non-Africans to acquire the country’s citizenship as of right if they, and one of their parents, had been born in Tanganyika; and also by registration in certain other circumstances. On that occasion, Prime Minister Nyerere spoke with unusual emotion, when he said the following:- “Mr. Speaker Sir, I do not intend to answer for my hon. Colleague, the Minister for Home Affairs, who is directly responsible for this Bill. I only want to speak on a matter of principle, which has been raised by a substantial number of potential Verwoeds” (Verwoed was the name of the racist Prime Minister of the hated apartheid regime in South Africa at the material time). He continued as follows: “A fairly large number of hon. Members have stood up here, claiming that that they are speaking on behalf of the vast majority of the people of Tanganyika, and asking us to base our country’s citizenship not on loyalty to the country, but on the color of the person . . . Now, Sir, I am going to make a very serious statement, because I do not want to see some people coming in this House, getting drunk with the atmosphere of the House, and start talking rubbish in here, expecting great applause from the rest of us, and that they will easily get away with it! Mr Speaker Sir, I am saying NO to these Members, and I mean it. We in the Government, are going to treat this particular issue, as a matter of principle. Hence, when it comes to voting on the motion to adopt the proposals contained in this Bill, we are going to make it a free vote. No party whip will be applied. And if the motion is lost, the Government shall resign immediately”. The Legislative Council ‘Hansard’ records show that when the voting eventually took place, the motion was passed with an overwhelming majority, with only two members signifying dissent. That event demonstrates the level of support which Mwalimu Nyerere enjoyed at the time, (and indeed all the time thereafter). Thus there could be no question of any dissatisfied group being able to forcibly remove Julius Nyerere from power. It must therefore be accepted, that Mwalimu Nyerere’s resignation from the Premiership on 22nd January, 1962; was entirely his own personal choice. We will return to this point later, at the stage when we will quote his own words, explaining the circumstances surrounding that event including his reasons for doing so. The true reasons for his resignation are clearly stated in the minutes of the meeting of TANU’s National Executive Committee, which was held from 16th to 21st January, 1962, as follows:- Mara baada ya ufunguzi wa mkutano huo, Rais wa Chama alikiarifu kikao kuhusu mpango wake wa kujiuzulu Uwaziri Mkuu, ili aweza kutumia muda wake wote katika kukijenga upya Chama cha TANU, na kukiweka katika mazingira mapya ya kuwa ni Chama Tawala; baada ya kuwa kimekamilisha kazi za kuwa ni Chama cha kupigania Uhuru. Alieleza zaidi kwamba hiyo hasa ndiyo ilikuwa sababu yake kubwa ya kuitisha mkutano huo wa Halmashauri Kuu ya Taifa, ili aweze kuwataarifu na kuwashirikisha wajumbe, juu ya azma yake hiyo. It is further recorded in the said minutes, that upon this surprise announcement being made by Mwalimu Nyerere, the meeting decided to postpone discussion on all other matters which were listed on its agenda. In order to enable the members to concentrate on this issue; and further that the deliberations regarding this issue alone, continued for a period of six full days; during which every member who got the opportunity to express his views, strongly opposed Mwalimu Nyerere’s intention to resign from the Premiership. However, eventually, upon realising Mwalimu Nyerere’s firm resolve and determination to resign, and presumably having been convinced by his reasons for that resolve, the meeting unanimously agreed to his proposal. But thereafter the meeting was in no mood to continue with the rest of the agenda, and so, it was decided to close the meeting at that stage. In a press statement issued on 22nd January, 1962; Mwalimu Nyerere said the following: “Today, I relinquished my position as Prime Minister of Tanganyika. But before doing that, I selected a new team of Ministers, with Mr Rashidi Kawawa at its head as the new Prime Minister. I will not myself be a member of this new Government, but I will give it full support from my position as a Member of Parliament, and as President of TANU.” Thereafter, Mwalimu Nyerere proceeded to make known his reasons for his decision to resign; in the following words: “I have taken this action after winning the support of my colleagues, but after a long debate that has taken several days. It is my firm belief that this is the best option for achieving our new objective, namely the creation of a country in which all the people will have the opportunity to take full and active part in the fight against poverty, ignorance and disease” Mwalimu Nyerere also correctly predicted how his resignation would be received by different people, when he said the following: “I know that this will come to many of you as a shock, but this will mainly be a product of habit. And it is the same habit which might cause some of the people to misunderstand the significance of this bold step; for the reason only that it is most unusual for a Prime to step down from his position as leader of the Government, and confine himself only to the leadership of the ruling party. But we do not believe that it is necessary for us to copy the institutions of other countries; instead, we believe that we must work out our own pattern of democracy; and the step I have announced today is the best way for us to proceed at the moment. It is therefore with the fullest confidence in the new Government, and in the people of Tanganyika, that I will now undertake my new task, namely that of leading the task of building a new TANU, which must be reformed and reshaped in order to meet the changed circumstances of independent Tanganyika”. There are numerous lessons which can be learnt from Mwalimu Nyerere’s unique leadership style, and this is, certainly, one of them.