Campaign against the use of plastic bags has been intensifying as activists and countries join the battle by taking measures, including banning the bags in efforts to save the environment from degradation. For Zanzibar it has been over a decade since it imposed a ban on ‘Manufacturing, importation, distribution and use of plastic bags’ of which during the prohibition, several tonnes of plastics bags were confiscated and destroyed while culprits prosecuted and convicted mainly to pay fines. “The battle is ongoing. Dishonest importers or traders still import plastic bags through illegal entry points into the country and also corrupt officers at the customs allow in plastic,” said Ms Farhat Ali Mbarouk- Director, Department of Environment in the Zanzibar government. She said, “The widely used plastic bags weighing below 50 microns are prohibited, while other types are highly discouraged along with improper disposal of empty plastic bottles discarded beside streets and along beaches.” “We have recorded success in our campaign against the plastic in the country with increased awareness among people who are now using environment friendly bags (manufactured locally),” said the Director. But we still need partnership with individual people and private sector to achieve our goal in making Zanzibar and the beaches free of plastics bags and bottles. The call for partnership against plastics has been receiving attention as different groups including schools and tourist Hotels have established cleaning programmes, frequently, cleaning streets and beaches collecting plastics. But the recently announced ‘ Flipflopi Project’ dubbed ‘ # PlasticRevolution!’ which aims at removing plastics off the beaches in East African coastal areas, would be another additional boost in the campaign to address plastic in the region including Zanzibar. A ‘Flipflopi Dhow’ built with waste plastics, is scheduled to sail 500kms from Kenya to Stone Town (Zanzibar expedition) to raise awareness about marine plastic pollution. The journey begins in Lamu Kenya tomorrow (January 24, 2019) via several coastal towns and is expected to dock at Forodhani Stone Town after 14 days. Mr Ben Morison- ‘Flipflopi Project’ founder, said the dhow will also venture into the treacherous Southern Ocean and around Cape Horn. Morison, who grew up in Kenya before working in London arranging Safari holidays to Kenya and the rest of Africa, says he was surprised to see a lot of plastic in marine environment. The founder, who is also a travel industry entrepreneur, started the Flipflopi Project after coming face to face with the shocking quantity of plastic and flip-flops on so many of East Africa’s beaches and the impact they are having on marine and land ecosystems. Morison and the Flipflopi Project team believe that any serious attempt at impacting the outcome requires a change in consumer behaviours upstream in the life cycle of single-use plastics. He said, “it is important to connect plastic use to everyday lives, as it has an impact on food security.” “I walk down the road, I throw my plastic bag onto the street then the rain takes it into the river before getting to a sea or a lake. We go to fish. When the plastics get to the lake or sea, it breaks down micro plastics which are smaller, Fish eats it,” he said. He adds, “that is the reason some studies have proved why sea birds have plastic inside them, because they eat fish and every fish has micro plastic, we are eating our own plastic.” Morison says the dhow is innovative, as end of use plastic wastes are being used. Morison says research indicate that there will be no single sea bird in the world that will not have ingested plastics into their bodies as plastics continue to get into the ocean at an alarming rate and between 90 and 95 per cent of sea birds worldwide have plastics in their bodies. “The situation is significant as Indian Ocean is not only East Africa’s ocean; it is the ocean that connects to South East Asia and to the Philippines, to Vietnam. So a lot of waste we have been collecting has brand names of countries from across the other side of the ocean. The dhow will send the message to several other countries,” he says. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) says the world, with a population of 2.5 billion in 1950, produced 1.5 million tonnes of plastic. However, last year (2018), with a global population of more than seven billion people, produced over 300 million tonnes of plastic, with severe consequences for marine plants and animals. It is estimated that about 12.2 million tonnes of plastic enters the Ocean every year, while a single plastic bag can take 500 years or more to degrade. About 99 percent of seabirds will have plastic in their bodies by 2050, only 14 percent of all plastic produced is recycled and that by 2050 the ratio of plastic to fish by weight will be 1:1. Morison says a way in which the effects of plastics can be communicated needs to be found arguing that the Flipflopi project would help raise awareness, as people do not care about something they do not know. Morison said, in June 2016 his team decided to try and build a boat entirely from plastic collected on beaches and roadsides in Kenya to show the potential of ‘already-used’ plastic. And two years later, using over ten tonnes of plastic waste and thousands of repurposed flipflops – we have succeeded. Built on the island of Lamu using traditional dhow builders and techniques, the world’s very first 100 percent recycled plastic dhow set sail in September 2018, but it has never really been about the boat... we simply want to demonstrate that single use plastic doesn’t make sense. We hope people around the world are inspired to find their own ways to repurpose ‘already-used’ plastic. The next step in our journey is to sail our boat to Zanzibar sharing our message along the east African coast, talking to law makers, companies and communities about what can be done to reduce plastic use and to stop plastic ending up in the environment. Wherever you may live, the reality is that we are all standing on the edge of a global calamity. I know this with every logical cell in my body. We know that responsible lawmakers, corporate and individuals can make a difference, but urgent actions are needed, so I urge you to join the ‘# plasticrevolution’ and make your voice heard!