Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Prof Faustin Kamuzora, has barred militiamen from harassing citizens, who sell small quantities of fish, warning that stern measures would be taken against them. In a circular addressed to district commissioners (DCs), district executive directors (DEDs) and the regional police commander (RPC), Prof Kamuzora said he had received complaints from a section of residents selling fish that some people were erecting road blocks and forcing them to pay them money without good reasons. “The government is closely following up the matter and regulations related to the fishing business are clearly defined,” he pointed out. Expounding, he wondered why a person carrying less than 20kg of fried fish or a Nile Perch measuring between 50-85 centimetres as well as a Tilapia measuring 25 centimetres, should be taxed and no receipt provided after the fine was paid. “Traders carrying over 20kg of fish for business should possess a licence, a TIN number and necessary documents,” he pointed out. However, in the past three to four months, there were rumours that the government had banned fishing activities in Lake Victoria, where any person found with 5-10kg of fish, was being harassed. Upcountry bus operators were also barring passengers from carrying any fish consignment in their buses. Meanwhile, Prof Kamuzora has appealed for joint efforts to fight against malnutrition among children in the area, saying: “We have to ensure that all children are free from malnutrition. The region is rich and has plenty of fertile land and food. There is no reason why children should suffer from malnutrition.” A recent survey indicates almost 41.7 per cent of children in Kagera Region are suffering from malnutrition. The survey also indicates that the rate of stunted growth stands at 34.7 percent, whereas underweight is identified as being prevalent at 13.4 per cent, wasting at 3.8 percent, anaemia among children at 59 percent. Data also shows vitamin A deficiency standing at 33 per cent and anaemia among pregnant women at 53 per cent, while low birth weight (LBW) at seven percent. However, a national survey conducted last year reveals that Kagera was among the top 10 regions in Mainland Tanzania, where malnutrition stands at 41.7 percent among children aged below five years, while the national average stands at 34 percent. Other regions in the statistics include Dodoma, Mwanza Kigoma, Mbeya, Dar es Salaam, Geita, Tabora, Ruvuma and Lindi.