The long overdue World Press Photo Exhibition is finally showcased for two weeks until the sixth of February at the Alliance Française premises in Dar es Salaam. Themed ‘connecting the world to the stories that matter’ the embassy of Netherlands is glad to bring the exhibition back to Tanzania, with the last being displayed in 2005. As they unveiled the picture of the year photo on wednesday, marking the launch of the exhibition, Jenerali Ulimwengu, a veteran journalist who was the guest of honour thanked the embassy for having the exhibition back in Dar es Salaam although there was a lacuna of 14 years. The picture chosen by the jury had three things including creativity of the photographer, statically interesting and outstanding, and shows a news event of great importance which was of a flaming Venezuelan man, explained Ms Sophie Boshouwers the foundation's curator, who doubles as the exhibition Manager. “I am glad now there is a new reason to make the exhibition come to Dar es Salaam hoping and promising that the next exhibition to be done in Tanzania will contain photos taken by Tanzania photographers,” noted Mr Ulimwengu. Adding that, “This means Tanzanian photographers should get busy from today, get best pictures and enroll in the competition as I believe we have talented people in the country and should be grabbed as an opportunity to meet the rest of the world in photography.” The embassy is proud to host this year’s exhibition in order to encourage dialogue on the role of visual media in strengthening the role of journalism in society, and will continue to recognise and support the work of visual journalists who go over and above to tell the stories that need to be told, asserted Lianne Flouben Netherland’s chargé d’affaires. “We remain fully committed to visual storytelling and our role in nurturing and inspiring the next generation of Tanzanian journalists and photographers,” she affirmed adding that, “Photos do not lie, a story can be twisted and news can be fake, an unedited photo will always show the truth.” She further thanked the parties that contributed to the presence of the exhibition including NMB, World Press, Tanzania Media Woman’s Association (TAMWA), Swiss Embassy and Alliance Francaise. Photographs are extremely important as said ‘a picture says a thousand words and more’, with entries from across the world, 4548 photographers from 125 countries submitted 73044 images; this exhibition puts an emphasis on the importance of photography in journalism, said Ms Flouben. She also appealed for people to attend an open discussion on photo journalism on the first of February at the exhibition grounds.