A lot of women have uterine fibroids at some point in their life and studies shows that, up to 80 percent of them will experience uterine fibroids, noncancerous tissue growths in the uterus, by the age of 50. There’s high probability that number includes, or will include, you or another woman in your life, and while some women with fibroids are lucky enough to not experience symptoms, for those who do, symptoms can have a severe negative impact on quality of life. Uterine fibroids are noncancerous growths of the uterus that often appear during childbearing years generally between 30 and 40 years old, but they can show up at any age and they are not associated with the risk of uterine cancer and almost never develop into cancer. Fibroids range in size from seedlings, undetectable by the human eye, to bulky masses that can distort and enlarge the uterus. You can have a single fibroid or multiple ones. In extreme cases, multiple fibroids can expand the uterus so much that it reaches the rib cage. Sometimes these tumors become quite large and cause severe abdominal pain and heavy periods. In other cases, they cause no signs or symptoms at all. The growths are typically benign with unknown cause. Many women have uterine fibroids sometime during their lives, but most of them don’t know they have uterine fibroids because they often cause no symptoms. Symptoms can be influenced by the location, size and number of fibroids. The most common symptoms of uterine fibroids include: heavy or prolonged menstrual periods, abnormal bleeding between menstrual periods, pelvic pain (caused as the tumor presses on pelvic organs), constipation, frequent urination, low back pain, pain during intercourse and reproductive problems, such as infertility, multiple miscarriages or early labor among others. In some cases, the heavy or prolonged menstrual periods, or the abnormal bleeding between periods, can lead to iron-deficiency anemia, which also requires treatment. Many of the symptoms of uterine fibroids like painful periods, heavy bleeding, and spotting between periods have historically been accepted as normal since the society assumes that it is what it means to be a woman. But it isn’t normal, because over generations, we’ve normalized the abnormal experience because we don’t tend to have these kinds of conversations with our healthcare professionals. We don’t talk about our menstrual cycles, in general. That’s something that’s private. It’s hidden. As girls, we’re taught not to discuss it. And when you have pelvic pain it’s considered normal. Majority of women with fibroids are not diagnosed early enough and don’t seek medical help until they’re experiencing some really, really horrible symptoms. There are few known risk factors for uterine fibroids development, other than being a woman of reproductive age which include: Heredity factor that is; if your mother or sister had fibroids, you’re at increased risk of developing them. Race is also another risk factor since studies show that black women are more likely to have fibroids than women of other racial groups. In addition, black women have fibroids at younger ages, and they’re also likely to have more or larger fibroids. Environmental factors like Onset of menstruation at an early age; use of birth control; obesity; vitamin D deficiency; having a diet higher in red meat and lower in green vegetables, fruit and dairy; a high-sugar diets and drinking alcohol, including beer, appear to increase the risk of developing fibroids Certain home remedies and natural treatments can have a positive effect on fibroids, like acupuncture, yoga, massage, applying heat for cramps (avoid heat if you experience heavy bleeding). Dietary changes like avoiding meat and high-calorie foods. Instead, opt for foods like, green vegetables, green tea, and cold-water fish such as tuna or salmon, fresh fruits use and cruciferous vegetables as well as regular exercise. Managing your stress levels and losing weight if you are overweight can also benefit women with fibroids. Your prognosis will depend on the size and location of your fibroids. Fibroids may not need treatment if they’re small or don’t produce symptoms. If you’re pregnant and have fibroids, or become pregnant and have fibroids, your healthcare provider will carefully monitor your condition. In most cases, fibroids don’t cause problems during pregnancy. Although uterine fibroids usually aren’t dangerous, they can cause discomfort and may lead to complications such as anemia from heavy blood loss. If fibroids are large, there may also be weight gain and swelling in the lower abdomen. Once a fibroid develops, it can continue to grow until menopause and as the estrogen levels fall after menopause, the fibroid will usually shrink. Complications resulting from fibroids include; menorrhagia, also called heavy periods, abdominal pain, pregnancy problems, infertility and leiomyosarcoma which is a rare form of cancer that is thought by some to be able to develop inside of a fibroid in very rare cases. Other serious complications include acute thromboembolism, deep vein thrombosis, (DVT), acute renal failure, and internal bleeding among others. Note that a woman with fibroids who suddenly develops severe abdominal pain should contact her healthcare provider immediately. Since most fibroids stop growing or may even shrink as a woman approaches menopause, the health care provider may simply suggest a “watchful waiting.” With this approach, the health care provider monitors the woman’s symptoms carefully to ensure that there are no significant changes or developments and that the fibroids are not growing. It is advisable to seek medical help as soon as you experience any abnormal signs and symptoms. The treatment for fibroids depends on the severity of the symptoms, the fibroids’ location, your plans for having children, as well as your personal situation and age. Note that awareness of fibroids is important because these benign tumors are common and can have an impact on ones quality of life. Stay healthy by tracking your health status!