Young Africans will start their 2019 SportPesa Super Cup campaign by hosting Kariobangi Sharks from Kenya on Tuesday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Both Yanga and Kariobangi Sharks are undefeated in their domestic league matches hence it would be a thrilling encounter for each side bearing in mind that once beaten, then you farewell the competition. Earlier on the same day, Singida United will entertain Bandari FC from Kenya and winners in these two games will proceed into the semifinals of the eight-team tournament. A day after, debutants Mbao FC will face two-time record winners of the competition Gor Mahia while later, Simba will go head to head against AFC Leopards. Semi-final games have been lined up on January 25th of which, according to the rules of the tournament, two teams which will win on each day in the quarterfinals would play each other in the semis. However, the third place occupants and the finals would be played on January 27th at the same venue whose winner will pocket USD 30,000 plus hosting the English Premier League side Everton FC. Revealing the fixture yesterday here was SportPesa Communication Officer Sabrina Msuya, who said Kenyan teams are expected to arrive in Tanzania from Saturday to Sunday. “We hope that this period, any team from Tanzania will do us justice by winning the title and seize the chance to host Everton,” she said. She added, “The competition will be witnessed by many people around the world hence a good opportunity for players to sell out themselves.” On his part, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo said all measures have been taken into consideration to ensure that the timing of the tournament does not affect other league assignments. “Throughout the competition, no Mainland Premier League games would be played only that some teams will be playing in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) of which, will not at all affect the contest,” Ndimbo said. This year’s third edition of SportPesa Super Cup will for the first time be broadcast live on DStv via SuperSport 9 as one way to reach many people globally. Meanwhile, Mwanza based Mbao FC team Manager, Almas Moshi has confirmed that their prolific striker Evaregestus Mujwahuki will miss their next Wednesday match against Kenya’s Gor Mahia, reports Alexander Sanga in Mwanza. Speaking during a postmatch interview, after their 1-0 victory against Singida United in the Mainland Premier League on Wednesday at CCM Kirumba Stadium, Moshi said Mujwahuki picked a thigh injury. Apart from Mujwahuki, Moshi said all other players are fit to confront the two times record holders of the SportPesa tournament Gor Mahia.