The inauguration of KAN Festival is to takeoff running from 22nd to 25th January 2019 in Arusha, Tanzania. The contemporary platform seeks to engage and connect Artists from all walks of life, age and sectors of work bringing them together for sharing ideas and drawing from one another lived experiences. The festival is set to embody three different areas which include Knowledge, Art and Networking. Key features during the KAN Festival 2019 will include Storytelling sessions, Film screenings, Exhibitions, Debates, Artistic performances, Written and spoken word (Swahili and English) and Ubuntu talks. Being the first of its kind, the four day event themed “Revisiting Pan-Africanism” will be held at MS Training Center for Development Cooperation. The basis of the theme is arrived at an ongoing interrogation of the uncomfortable truth that “Africa is a continent of huge contrasts." It is arguably the richest continent, yet home to the poorest people on earth. Here creators, innovators, development practitioners, activists and curators will converge to reflect on Pan- African matters that have the potential to in one way or the other impact on the growth and development of the immediate community and by extension at a larger scale the African continent. Pan-Africanism will be looked at extensively and as part of the session the festival will delve into women’s role in shaping the African history. The Festival seeks to provide a platform for Social conscious Artists to share and exchange ideas. Artists such as Aslay, Webiro ‘Wakazi’ Wassira, Ekoume Valérie, Khalid Abail and many others will be present. KAN aspires to be the biggest gathering of African citizens bringing Africans together. Artists and development practitioners will have the opportunity to reflect on the past while looking into the future as well as drawing on available sources of knowledge to create opportunities for mutual stimulation. This Festival should be a must attend for all those interested in engaging in conversations geared towards developing the African continent.