TANZANIA stands a better chance of combating Tuberculosis (TB), thanks to the country’s well designed programme to fight the fatal disease as compared to other countries. Sokoine University of Agriculture APOPO TB Tanzania Programme Manager Dr Georges Mgode told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that despite being one of TB highly burdened countries, Tanzania is in good position to fight the disease because it has the best programme. World Health Organisation (WHO) reports show that Tanzania is among TB highly burdened countries in the world, with approximately 295 TB cases per 100,000 adults. Between 60,000 and 65,000 patients are reported in the country, annually. “The country has the best programme in terms of set up, leadership and strategies under the Ministry of Health (Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children), with demonstrated great possibility to eradicate the disease,” said Dr Mgode who doubles as a Research Fellow with Pest Management Centre at SUA. He added, “If there is good management for provision of sufficient diagnosis services, treatment and care, there is great chance of combating the disease.” Explaining about the use of trained rats to detect TB, Dr Mgode said if the technology is extended to all regions across the country, it will help to speed up the country’s drive to combat the deadly disease. TB detection facilities in Morogoro and Dar es Salaam use African giant pouched rats—HeroRATs—to detect the disease, the technology developed by a Belgian organisation—APOPO. APOPO HeroRATs help to identify many TB patients who were previously diagnosed negative, enabling them to start treatment instantly. Dr Mgode said plans were underway to engage more health facilities in Dar es Salaam in taking sputum samples to the TB detection laboratory in city with the aim of expanding coverage and accessibility of the service by the city residents. He said currently SUA–APOPO was collaborating with 41 health facilities in Dar es Salaam, adding that the additional 15 new facilities will see the services extended to the entire region. Dr Mgode further noted that should the technology be scaled up in other regions, the country may be in good position to eradicate the disease. Reports show that in 2016 over 10 million people were infected with TB globally, with 1.3 million of them dying and 600,000 cases of Multidrug resistant TB reported. WHO has set out goals under the End TB Strategy aimed at reducing death arising from the disease by 90 per cent and cutting new cases by 30 per cent.