. . . Grants employment to 196 Bandari graduates THE fifth phase government has continued walking the talk, when it comes to improving the welfare of Tanzanians from all walks of life and yesterday it granted immediate employment to 196 students, who graduated from Bandari College. Announcing the good news at the college’s 17th graduation ceremony, Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Isack Kamwelwe pointed out that the government was in need of the expertise of graduates, especially now that various initiatives were being undertaken to improve the country’s ports. The minister directed Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Transport Sector, Dr Leonard Chamriho, Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) Board Chairman, Prof Ignas Rubaratuka and TPA Director General, Deusdedit Kakoko to ensure all graduates were absorbed. The graduates include 15 certificate and 181 diploma holders from shipping and port management, engineering and maintenance, fire and safety management. Others are freight clearing and forwarding and port management, logistics and transport management. “There are about 200 vacant posts and already a permit to proceed with the employment has been issued. For that matter, there is not going to be a need to advertise the posts, as you are going to be employed in the manner to which I was employed,” said Mr Kamwelwe. The minister noted that he was aware of legal requirements related to the process, but together with the PS and DG they intend to present the matter to Minister of State in the President’s Office (Good Governance), George Mkuchika for further action. According to him, among government pledges to the people include the improvement of their welfare by increasing the number of employment opportunities. He further observed that the world economic trend by 2025 was being directed towards the Indian Ocean and it was being anticipated that countries located in the zone would benefit enormously. “Tanzania has to prepare for this and benefit from it,” noted the minister. Mr Kamwelwe revealed that the current contribution the ports services were making to the country’s economy accounted for 16.5 per cent. Dar es Salaam Port has the capacity to receive about 600,000 containers annually and the goal is to reach one million. He pledged to ensure free internet was connected to the college in two weeks among other challenges. A few minutes after the minister issued the directive, the Director General of TPA pledged to work on the matter. “As we are embarking on several projects to improve the ports in the country, we will first engage the graduates on contract bases from February 1, as we wait for the finalisation of the legal processes,” he noted. Chairman of Bandari College board of governors pointed out that the board would continue to address big challenges such as shortages of infrastructure, teaching and learning materials, including classrooms, lecturers and other officers’ office at the college. Mr Kakoko disclosed that big challenges facing the college had been caused by the government’s decision to distribute part of the