Raising kids is both rewarding and challenging thus, as parents or guardians you have an important job to play. You’re likely to get a lot of advice along the way, from doctors, family, friends, and even strangers, but every parent and child is unique. Being sensitive and responsive to your kids can help you build positive, healthy relationships together and being a sensitive parent and responding to your kids cuts across all areas of parenting by recognizing what your child needs in the moment and providing that in an effective way. Understand that the early years of a child’s life are very important for his or their health and development. Healthy development means that children of all abilities, including those with special health care needs, are able to grow up where their social, emotional and educational needs are met. Having a safe and loving home and spending time with family playing, singing, reading and talking are very important. Proper nutrition, exercise, and sleep also can make a big difference. Note that children thrive on feelings of belonging and affection that come from having caring and supportive families. The quality of family relationships is more important for children’s wellbeing than the size or composition of the family. Strong emotional bonds often develop through sensitive, responsive, and consistent parenting in the first years of life. Strong emotional bonds helps children learn how to manage their own feelings and behaviors and develop selfconfidence. They help create a safe base from which they can explore, learn and relate to others. Experts call this type of strong connection between children and their caregivers “ secure attachment.” Securely attached children are more likely to be able to cope with challenges like poverty, family instability, parental stress and depression. Modern life is full of things that can influence your ability to be sensitive and responsive to your child. These include competing priorities, extra work , lack of sleep, and mobile devices. Distracted parenting may affect the Childs emotional bonding, language development, social interaction and safety. If parents are unavailable, kids can get distressed and feel hurt, rejected, or ignored. They may have more emotional outbursts and feel alone. They may even stop trying to compete for their parents’ attention and start to lose emotional connections to their parents. There are times when kids really need your attention and want your recognition and parents should communicate to their kids how valuable and important they are instead of leaving them at their caregivers’ plight. It can be tough to respond with sensitivity during tantrums, arguments, or other challenging times with your kids but if parents respond by being irritable or aggressive themselves, children can mimic that behavior and a negative cycle then continues to escalate. Kids start to regulate their own emotions and behavior around age three. Up until then, they depend more on the parent to help them regulate their emotions, whether to calm them or help get them excited. They’re watching you to see how you do it and listening to how you talk to them about it, hence, parents need to be good self-regulators. You’re not only trying to regulate your own emotions in the moment, but helping your child learn to manage their emotions and behavior. As kids become better at managing their feelings and behavior, it’s important to help them develop coping skills, like active problem solving. Such skills can help them feel confident in handling what comes their way. When parents engage positively with their children, teaching them the behaviors and skills that they need to cope with the world, children learn to follow rules and regulate their own feelings. As parents, we try really hard to protect our kids from the experience of bad things. But if you protect them all the time and they are not in situations where they deal with difficult or adverse circumstances, they aren’t able to develop healthy coping skills. You should allow your kids to have more of those experiences and then help them learn how to solve the problems that emerge. Talk through the situation and their feelings. Then work with them to find solutions to put into practice. As children grow up, it’s important to remember that giving them what they need doesn’t mean giving them everything they want. This is an important parenting skill and it’s linked to so many great outcomes for kids. Think about where a child is in life and what skills they need to learn at that time. Perhaps they need help managing emotions, learning how to behave in a certain situation, thinking through a new task , or relating to friends. If you want to help kids become confident, you don’t want to aim too high where they can’t get there or too low where they have already mastered the skill. Another way to boost their confidence while strengthening your relationship is to let your kid take the lead. Make some time to spend with your child that isn’t highly directive, where your child leads the play. Kids come to expect it and they love it, and it really improves the relationship. Focus on your child’s actual needs instead of sticking to any specific parenting principles. It’s never too late to start building a healthier, more positive relationship with your child, even if things have gotten strained and stressful. Most importantly, make sure that your child knows that you love them and are on their side. For older children, let them know that you are genuinely committed to building a stronger relationship with them and helping them be successful. By being a sensitive and responsive parent, you can help set your kids on a positive path, teach them self-control, reduce the likelihood of troublesome behaviors, and build a warm, caring parent-child relationship. Remember, healthy kids lead to a healthy family.