She was caught up in the proverbial Catch-22 situation. She gazed at the blackboard, but wasn’t actually concentrating. Her attention was instead focused, though not seriously, on faint sounds at a far distance of a teacher trying to explain a point, and the buzzing sounds of fellow students in the background. She posed to her inner self, troubling questions whose answers were not easily forthcoming. “Is this really happening to me? Should I stand up and go to the latrine now? But what if it has happened already and my skirt is smeared with a stain? Does everybody get to see my shame? Or should I just sit and wait for recess, but even then how do I hide such an embarrassment with no extra skirt or sweater to cover myself with? No matter how hard she scratched her brain, however, no answer was forthcoming for any of the questions. In a fleeting moment, indeed, she thought that the questions were tougher than the ones she had been grappling with in relations to the subjects she was being taught by various teachers. Conscious that a way out had to be found out of the predicament, because the situation couldn’t remain intact for ever, she hit on an idea she perceived was the best under the tricky circumstances. She confided the predicament to the pupil seated beside her, and who happened to be a close friend. That is a nasty scenario that many girls face in schools, as it does even women at work places. Every day millions of girls and women experience the monthly visitor. Menstruation is a normal reproductive process which should be welcomed delightfully as a sign of good health, rather than being regarded as a taboo associated with filth. Menses is one of the situations that can appear at any time or place, but unfortunately, most schools and work places do not have the requisite facilities for enabling females through their monthly period stress free. According to UNICEF statistics, 52% of schoolgirls’ latrines don’t have doors, 63% don’t have sanitary pads disposal point, 46% of water facilities are non-functional, and 99% don’t have soap. Lulu Amier, the owner of ‘Be a Lady’, which is popularly known as ‘BELA vendor’ under LKJ Tech Limited, faced similar challenges when she was in school. “I was compelled to carry a whole bag to the toilet so that I didn’t have to hold the pad in my hand. I was immensely uncomfortable because I attracted much attention. The temperature of uneasiness literally rose to alarming levels when some asked me why I was going to the toilet with a bag. It was furthermore commonplace for girls to ask friends if they had had extra pads that they could give to them during awkward situations. It was against that background that she undertook considerable research on the problem, and contemplated on how to come up with a solution. It all started at Buni hub, where the opportunity for an idea arose and evolved into solid action, through a competition dubbed ‘Data for Local Impact Innovation Challenge (DLIIC)’. She explained that she applied for the grant in 2016, being among more than 100 applicants in the competition. “Twenty four people were shortlisted and after pitching the proposed ideas for the projects, only 12 winners were selected; luckily I was among them,” she proudly recalled. The thrust of the idea was to initially help girls cope with their menstruation while in school and not to worry or have to miss classes because of it. It was based on taking sanitary pads to schools, and setting affordable prices. That was how vending machines came up. A research conducted by Smart Development Works (SNV), under a Control Program headed by Ms Selamawit Tamiru, compiled data on menstrual hygiene management of school girls. It revealed that 99 percent of girls said hygiene facilities in schools were not user friendly. The study by SNV found out that 50 percent of school girls missed four to five days of school per month as a consequence. “As a young, female entrepreneur, I want to install sanitary pad vending machines in schools to help adolescent girls have access to affordable pads. Then I want to collect data to prove that these machines can reduce school absenteeism due to menstruation. It is not only about being an entrepreneur, but also accomplishing the goal of helping fellow females,” she firmly stated. SNV research also revealed that girls faced many problems as a consequence of using unsuitable materials that were not effective, as blood leaked and stained their clothes. In focus group discussions, girls commented that although rags, sponges and cotton were cheap, and sometimes available free of charge, they could not withstand the blood flow and sometimes dropped out, causing considerable embarrassment. The rags are often unhygienic as they are mostly left to dry in hidden dark places, which may cause infections and irritation. She further explained that the innovation challenge with the theme of empowering citizens, ‘Gender and Social Development’ through the organization of Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) and Data Lab for Impact (DLI), the LKJ tech team was able to receive the grant in march 2017 and officially started installing the vending machines and immediately started working in April. The automated sanitary pad dispensers commonly known as the Belavendors were imported from South Africa. “This was to ensure that the ball started rolling and the project was put into action. The idea of importing the vendors also came about so as to see if we can study the technology of the dispensers and try making ones that were fit for our use and country,” she stated, adding, “We assigned University of Dar es Salaam engineers who could produce similar vendors but specific to our use. The first proto type is 96 percent done and will enter the markets soon.” Currently, the vendors have been installed at Chang’ombe and Tambaza secondary schools in Dar es Salaam and are replenished every Friday. Seminars are conducted before installations, focused on menstrual hygiene management, as well as demonstrating their operations. The dispensers use coins as a pad is sold at two hundred shillings, and to avoid chaos of providing change, only coins are used. “Although after a while we want to advance and make machines where people can swipe cards to pay, and some use mobile applications, we will get there to make life even easier,” Ms Amier affirmed. Clarifying that although the initial idea was to place such vendors in schools to help students, Ms Amieremphasized that the Bela Vendors can be installed and will be of great help at any place that hosts women. “We are trying to negotiate with malls like Mlimani City, hotels, offices, and universities on how important and helpful it would be to women in these environments to have access to such facilities.” The sanitary pads in the vending machines are from glory pads that are under USAID; some are from Elea pads, but now collaborating with pads called makcare pads. “Recently we got another award from the American Embassy, in a project dubbed ‘sauti ya binti’ under the US embassy in Tanzania, for installing four machines for schools in Manzese, Mikocheni, Tunga in Kigamboni and Jangwani primary schools,” she commented. Ms Amier explained that the competition was organized by DLIIC who are based at COSTEC in the office of Dar Teknohama Business Incubator (DTBi). They are collaborating with the US President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) are the main donors. The LKJ team presently consists of Lulu Ameir as project and team manager; Kaijuko Mukandala the project coordinator, Frank Gilbert, developer, and Jasmine Abdallah, marketing strategist. “The challenge opened doors for me to attain great achievements in my life; so ladies out there, be strong, work hard and believe in your dreams, you can achieve anything you work hard for,” she advised, Girls must be supported to stay confident as they manage and take control of their menstrual hygiene. There is a need to break this silence as there is still a lot of awkwardness, humiliation and taboo around the subject. Most people find it very difficult to talk about it and silence triumphs. Schools ignore or don’t bear in mind girls’ menstrual hygiene needs like water availability, proper toilets, and no emergency sanitary pads. Due to such harsh conditions, girls struggle to manage the menstrual hygiene and decide to miss classes for a few days just to be comfortable. As many face and experience such circumstances, women started rising, coming up with different ideas and initiatives that altogether have the sole purpose of creating a conducive environment for girls and women alike to control and manage menstrual hygiene starting from schools to offices. Initiatives have been taken, policies have been set but more needs to be done. Schools need discreet, clean latrines, dustbins for disposing pads, water and soap within the toilets. The absence of discreet facilities for disposal of used sanitary wear tempts girls to dump them in toilets. More efforts should be placed on providing knowledge and awareness on menstrual hygiene to schools. In order to provide sustained improvements to menstrual hygiene facilities and guidance for girls,there is a need for appropriate budgets and clear policy direction involving institutions like schools. There are limited awareness policies and a lack of appropriate strategies to address the issue at the level of local governments and school administrations. In order for attention to menstrual hygiene to be addressed in a way that is effective and sustainable, it cannot be an afterthought or add-on Menstrual hygiene management needs to be an integral part of wider efforts to promote girls’ education. ‘Yewer Abeba’ an Ethiopian name translated as ‘monthly flower’, should not be a taboo and should not be abandoned, especially in schools. With help from her friend, the girl managed to hide her shame, but she lost the remaining classes. Imagine if she knew and was sure that the school matron could solve her problem and she did not have to worry, she would have listened to that class and the remaining ones.