MWANZA Resident Magistrate Court has set free two people who were being accused for conspiracy to obtain properties of Nyanza Cooperative Union (NCU) fraudulently after paying 27m/- each as fines. The Court also ordered the accused to return the NCU properties, which they illegally sold after they pleaded guilty to have committed the offence. The accused, who were released by the court were charged to have obtained the property of the company contrary to Sections 301 and 302 of the Penal Code. They were named as Antonia Zakaria Wambura a resident of Tarime in Mara region and Timothy Kilumile a resident of Mwanza City. The prosecution led by two Principal State Attorneys’ Castuce Ndamugoba and Shadrack Kimaro and Advocate Magreth Mwasobe, said that the accused on diverse dates between April 22 and June 1, 2002 within Mwanza Region, with intent to defraud the NCU, obtained the company’s land property, citing them as a storey building, a fuel service station, and a workshop building all situated at Plot No.242 Block T. Station Road in Mwanza City. I t was further pointed out that the duo acquired also other forms of property from the NCU by falsely pretending that the said items were legally sold to them, a fact they knew to be false, and made a loss to the government estimated as over 49m/-. It was pointed in the court that while in the region, they conspired with others to fraudulently possess the NCU properties, claiming that the said properties were sold to them legally by the NCU management, while knowing that it was untrue. The buildings were sold to them in 2002 at 40m/-, which was also less in comparison to the then market value. The suspects, before the Resident Magistrate Mr Gwai Sumaye pleaded guilty and were ordered to pay a fine of 27m/- each. Reading the verdict, Mr Sumaye said he was satisfied with argument provided by the Prosecutors, and that the verdict was based on fair acknowledgments of the offences, failure to which all of them were to serve eight years in jail. Meanwhile, speaking to journalists, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Mr Biswalo Mganga, challenged NCU Manager, Mr Juma Mokili, to ensure that he has a list of all tenants in the NCU building that is currently under the government. “Make sure also you get all tenants’ contracts who rent this building and they pay their rents on time,” he added. Reached for a comment, the NCU General Manager, Mr Juma Mokili, commended the government under President John Magufuli, for tirelessly working hard to ensure that all NCU properties were returned back to their members.