The skin takes on different shades perfumed by moods from the analysis of thought; I am looking at a painting by Happy Robert titled ‘the dream’. It’s captivating though simple a portrait of a modern African woman, this painting glides past cheesy with its realist and tailored chaos of acrylic on canvas. This end of year season, there was a riot of orchestrated colours inside one of the biggest shopping centres in Dar es Salaam, namely Mlimani City Mall. “The country still doesn’t give enough support for fine artists; we don’t have enough galleries and or museums that regularly allow fine artists to showcase their works to the public. We then thought to join forces, ‘14 artists +’ was established early last year as a band of more than 14 Tanzanian fine artists, ranging from veterans with over 25-year experience like Raza Mohammed to new comers like Happy Robert. We’ve been to Kenya and other parts of Africa, in these two days we’re bringing our artworks to a bigger Tanzanian audience. So far the response has been good, audiences are asking questions on how we do it, where they can find us, they are even commissioning for new artworks.” Lutengano Mwakisopile shares, as chairman of ‘14 Artists +’, which hosted this Art Fair that saw more than 10 artists from Tanzania showcase their works. Walking down the mid isle of the mall you’re stopped mid stride, as you keep noticing scintillating pieces on canvas. Among these was the origami like birds shown on canvas by Masoud Kibwana. This man’s star has been rising, currently having showcased his works in the Comoros, Seychelles, China, Kenya among others with artworks sold in the US through the UN. I was taken by the painting of birds in this exhibit, they looked to be flying out of the canvas. His use of mixed media to include glue, canvas paper, acrylics was very clever. The painting has great contrast nuanced expertly in texture and colour. Talking with him he added “You know much of our work don’t end up with the local market, as our citizens don’t have the habit of seeing artworks in public spaces for appreciation analysis or critique. This was becoming a challenge, so we saw it’s necessary to combat this by trying to penetrate the local market...” One can attest to his views as much of the local fine art exhibitions in the city are held inside cultural foreign embassy spaces, ensuring many of the consumers are foreign expatriates. It looks like 14 Artists + intention of reaching more of Tanzania’s local audience was working as according to this Tanzanian man, “It’s a strategic move; I can see how they will attract the attention of millennials like me. Who often frequent Mlimani City and have never seen this. I am amazed by the extensive use of colour and detail in these paintings. Like this one (pointing to a Vita Malulu), it looks like this guy hasn’t sold fish since morning.” adds Stefan Mgina. Another onlooker going about her business had this to say “It’s exciting to see actually people very interested in these paintings. I can see people thinking, mmmh maybe I can put this in the new house I am moving into. It’s always great to meet the artists themselves like the legendary Raza Mohammed who I just bumped into,” Ms Tunu said. “It’s not like something we’re used to but art has always been here in the country, we have incredible artists. It was a coincidence for me to be here today, I normally don’t come to Mlimani City but I’m glad to just pop up here and find this amazing art. I have a great passion for art so I am very inspired we should encourage more of stuff like this… My favourite has been an artwork done by Haji Chilonga, it’s a painting of a lady and a man called ‘zawadi’...” Brian Mushi another local onlooker shared his thoughts on this exhibition. Johnson Mnjndo was another artist whose works caught my eye, his realist depicts are of an experts hand, exuding a grace that stains your memory. Another painter whose works gave off that gravitas which keeps you looking on, were pieces fine artist Evarist Chikawe. He has been in the industry since the mid 90’s an apprentice of ‘Nyumba ya Sanaa’. In this exhibit his artwork of a woman seated on her limbs was a favourite of mine, true to his style of African abstract cubism if at all you can pin it. The harmony in colour and sentiment sang off the canvas keeping me glued. It’s commendable that these artists are forging a market on their own, still there are challenges they should consider tackling like ensuring gender balance. There was only one female fine artist in this exhibit. Another challenge is the qualm of ‘artist becoming curator’, for instance the pricing for these artworks averaged 600,000 Tshs, with a few in the thousand dollar range. Now some paintings were underpriced and some priced due to the name but not necessarily worthy in standard. You see if we had competent curators and the sponsors behind the business of art exhibiting properly incentivizing and critiquing these artists. Well perhaps we would have seen a theme explored by all the artworks present, which would further aid the audience in appreciating fine art by seeing a subject explored so diversly. Second we wouldn’t be met with the subtle but in my opinion real tragedy of having great experienced fine artists, showcasing artworks that are rushed or just short of the artists afore records. We also may not have seen repetitive now glaring off points in some artworks with tremendous effort given the scale of the paintings; a factor that a curator could have stopped midway. Well overall this was a super showcase given the circumstances, this exhibit was for two days 14th-15th December 2018.