IN my last two sports columns, I advised Simba Sports Club to do three things if they want to go beyond the group stages of the Champions League; one to work hard on the individual players’ body conditioning, two, to ensure that the team has the stamina of a horse and lastly, but not least to work as a team. And because they are the weakest team in a group that has three clubs from Algeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Egypt; individually, their players don’t match to the three opponents in the group, hence the dire need to play total football (all in attack and all in defence). The three foregoing things are the only guarantees for them to go beyond not only their group stages, but also the final of the tournament which they are very much capable of if they do what I have advised them to do. My last advice to the club, especially to their technical bench is to get hold of a video of Thursday’s English Premier League match between Liverpool and Manchester City. As we all know, in the match under discussion, Manchester City edged out their opponents by 2-1 in arguably one of the best matches of the league that had everything one wants to see in a competitive football match. Manchester City beat Liverpool because their team was better prepared than their opponents in terms of their individual players’ body conditioning and their team’s stamina. Liverpool may have also had good players in each and every department just like their opponents, but they lacked the stamina of playing at the same pace and throughout. If a team is well packed in terms of their individual players’ body conditioning and stamina, concentration of players of such a team is usually at a very high level and that is what happened on Thursday this week. But this is not to say that Liverpool were not well prepared for the match, far from it. They did, however, their technical bench lacked the crucial ‘attention to detail’ that the Manchester City coach had on his players. It is easy for a coach to work out strategy against his opponents if one’s team is already well, packed in body conditioning and stamina. A team that is well packed in body conditioning and stamina and plays as a team is better placed to play whatever formation and pace it chooses than a team that heavily relies on skill and talent per se. As for Simba, the best form to employ, going forward, once they have prepared themselves well in terms of body conditioning and stamina is fast pace. If they can play their matches as fast as they can and throughout the match, including of course the additional minutes of the game, there is no way Simba would lose their matches. The body conditioning and stamina I have sometimes and again been laying accent on is a philosophy which was repeatedly drummed on me by former Taifa Stars chief coach, Syllersaid Mziray as he lived on. The coach who has since passed on, used to say that in terms of the level of the game between East African teams and those in the west and north Africa, the difference was very little although the standard of west and north African clubs was slightly different than those of east African soccer players. However, he said that if east African soccer clubs wanted to cancel out such differences against west and north African teams, then they needed to work on their individual players’ body conditioning and stamina. I have always been quoting Mziray whenever I had the opportunity on two grounds; one, this was the most successful Tanzanian coach in terms of what he did as he lived on and secondly, most of our players learnt the game haphazardly, through the streets. Mziray was the only Tanzanian coach who did not allow the ‘misguided love’ for either Simba or Yanga to get into his head and that is why he would be trusted to coach Simba and later Young Africans. And when he coached Simba, he beat Young Africans and later when he turned out for Young Africans the latter beat their arch soccer rivals. We have had many local coaches in Tanzania most of whom have coached Simba and Young Africans but because of their ‘misguided love’ for one club, Simba or Young Africans, they failed to transform themselves into professional coaches who could coach either of the two arch soccer rivals and this is one of Tanzania’s main soccer problems. Had our former Simba and Young Africans players who later turned into coaches transformed themselves into professional coaches in the same way that Mziray had done during his lifetime, they could have become better coaches. Therefore because Mziray was not only quite different from the local coaches we know and who have coached either Simba or Young Africans, but had also successfully and practically tested all that he had learnt in Bulgaria, I have always strongly believed in his philosophy of coaching, including what I have just touched on above.