Talking of reciprocity to some people is talking about Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that is a self-regulating business model that helps an investor to be socially accountable - to itself, its stakeholders, and the public. In reflection of that yesterday, NMB bank just like some several community-minded investors practicing another plough back in the society, also called corporate citizenship, felt compelled to donate about 150 iron sheets in Mbeya, showing a conscious of the citizens surrounding them and in turn release some alms to assist them in all aspects in the society including economic, social and environmental growth. To engage in CSR means that, in the normal course of business, the bank is operating in ways that enhance society to address its woes in form of building schools, hospitals, with the notion that once such are addressed, the citizens’ livelihoods would be raised. This is not only because CSR is a legal responsibility of a company to plough back in the society, its activities can help forge a stronger bond between the residents of the country and the institution, and can boost morale, besides helping both the institution and the citizens to feel more connected in the public surrounding it. The list may be long how such institutions make surprise visits to the communities like in Rukwa Regional Hospital Maternity Wards, where it donated hospital beds, mattresses and blankets worth 10m/- to serve the patients. Just like in other government hospitals, Sumbawanga Regional Hospital is one of the public hospitals that face shortage of equipment and is overwhelmed by a large number of patients, hence such complementary assistance to the society/citizens are welcome. The bank like some sympathetic investors in the society may have realised that such a government hospital, serves patients from two regions - Rukwa and Katavi, and hence shortage of drugs and related medical equipment has been an impediment towards provision of quality services. Speaking at the hospital after donating the equipment, the NMB Highlands Zone Manager, Ms Lucresia Makiriye, said the donation to hospitals and school desks in the country is key and it is what drives the bank’s business agenda. “I believe the NMB’s contribution will surely help to improve services here. We will continue helping communities as doing that is appreciating their support into our business,” said Ms Makiriye. Giving back part of the gains is a significant milestone in empowering local communities in areas that affect them directly like health and education. For his part, the Rukwa Regional Medical Officer, Dr John Gurisha, acknowledged NMB’s contribution to hospitals in the country asking for continued support to contribute, as it is key towards good service provision to the hospital. “We thank you for this donation, on behalf of the hospital and Rukwa Region in general. We value your support and we promise to stand as your good ambassadors at the hospital and communities using our services,” said Dr Gurisha. One of the areas that NMB keenly focuses on is providing normal and delivery beds to address the shortage of the health facilities. Apart from hospital donations, in 2014 NMB donated more than 300 desks to Rukwa schools, these are Ndau Primary school, Isunta Primary School, Mkangale Primary School and Namanyere Primary School. A total of 5,500 desks were donated to over 110 primary and secondary schools, while over 60 hospitals benefited from complete set of hospital beds and delivery beds countrywide. The focus to the education sector has been to support government efforts in creating favourable learning environment to provide high quality education through addressing the shortage of desks in schools and also the donation of used computers in schools. In its plough back again, NMB Bank Plc Central Zonal Manager, Straton Chilongola is on record to have handed over 200 desks worth 20m/- to several schools in the designated capital, with the impression that the bank values education because it’s the backbone of any successful economy. “That’s why we have decided to assist Amani, Nzuguna and Sokoine Primary Schools and Hanete Secondary School with these desks which are important to improve the learning environment,” Chilongola said. He pointed out that as a bank, NMB places the highest responsibility on community support because its business success comes from the local market. “We understand that it’s from the community that our clients come from hence giving back part of our profit to the same community is part of our culture,” he noted. Chilongola stressed that the 1bn/- allocated for corporate social responsibility makes NMB the largest single bank to budget such a huge sum for CSR which targets education, health and disaster relief. “We thank you all for coming to NMB for assistance because you have shown confidence in our bank,” the Zonal Manager noted. Speaking at the ceremony, acting Dodoma Regional Education Officer, Tumsifu Mwasamali commended the institution and promised to see into it that the desks help improve performance of beneficiary schools. “These desks will improve the learning environment and boost students learning morale,” Mwasamali said while pointing out that the desks will go a long way in solving the long-term problem of their shortage.