AZAM FC retained Mapinduzi Cup after sinking Simba 2-1 in the tournament’s final game held here yesterday at Gombani Stadium. The loss to Azam interrupted Simba’s CAF Champions League celebration just 24 hours after the Tanzanian envoys grabbed a hefty 3-0 victory over JS Saoura of Algeria. Goals from Mudathir Yahya in the 43rd minute and the winner from Zambian import, Obrey Chirwa in the 64th minute, accomplished Azam’s title defence campaign. Second Vice-President Ambassador Ali Seif Idd was the chief guest in the match that attracted over 20,000 fans. The game at the renovated Gombani Stadium started at a high note both teams trying to take an early opener. But, Simba who fielded most of players from the reserve team created most of the chances in the early minutes. Youthful attacking midfielder Rashid Juma forced the first corner in the opening minute, but Simba strikers failed to convert it. They soon took another corner, but again it was futile. Mohamed Ibrahim and Shiza Kichuya forced two quick saves from Azam FC goalie Razak Abalora and three minutes later Simba heaped pressure on their Premier League rivals, still no goal came by. Azam gradually grew into the game and created a number of chances with Enock Atta constantly threatening from left flank. Simba goalie had to make several darling saves to deny Abubakar Salum in the 9th minute and 22nd minutes respectively. Azam forward Tafadzwa Kutinyu was replaced by Ramadhani Singano after sustaining injury half way through the first half. Simba wasted golden opportunity in the 43rd minute and they were swiftly punished seconds later. Mudathir Yahya received an inviting pass from just outside the penalty box and had all time to fire a bullet-like shot that beat goalie Salim. Abdul Suleiman had a chance to draw parity shortly before the breather, but his efforts couldn’t disturb goalie Abalora. Azam were by far a better side on resumption and had several clear-cut chances to extend their lead, but Chirwa threw them away. Azam were made to rue several wasted chances in the 63rd minutes when Yusuf Mlipili rose high to nod home the equaliser from Kichuya corner kick. Simba celebration was short-lived as Chirwa made a remedy for his early misses with a powerful header from Nico Wadada’s cross. Azam football club have extended their record of winning the Mapinduzi Cup for a long time now. Last year Azam beat URA of Uganda to reclaim the 2018 crown in a well balanced final played at the Amaan Stadium. The Ugandan tax collectors had edged the ice-cream-makers 1-0 in the group stages and subsequently finished top of group A. URA had earlier eliminated Young Africans in the semi-finals through spot kicks. Like last year Azam keeper Razak Abalora made brilliant saves that helped his team to win the crown. Meanwhile, it could look as consolation to Simba fans when Simba Queens defeated Young Africans Queens 7-0 in the Women Football League at Karume Memorial Stadium. Both teams are making maiden appearance in the newly introduced league.