PRESIDENT John Magufuli is the most educated president in Africa, according to answerafrica network. The ranking has come just few days after another website—Africa54, ranked Dr Magufuli the second in the top five best African Presidents standing, thanks to his outstanding performance in 2018. Prior to the list, the popular network cited one quote of a famous philosopher Plato who believed in intelligence and education as indispensable components of leadership. “It is believed that a learned leader stands a better chance of doing well more than his uneducated counterpart,” the website quoted. According to answerafrica.com, although the African continent has countries that are less developed, the world has witnessed the most educated presidents coming from Africa. Dr Magufuli was immediately after assuming the country’s top office in November 2015, nicknamed the ‘bulldozer,’ as a result of many reforms that he made in various sectors, including education and energy. He holds a Bachelor Degree of Science in Chemistry, Masters of Science in Chemistry and Doctorate Degree in Chemistry all from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM). The second high educated President in Africa is King Mohammed VI of Morocco who has the Doctorate in Law from French University of Nice Sophia Antipolis and Bachelor Degree in Law from the Mohammed V University at Agdal, in Morocco. According to the website, King Mohammed has a Certificate of Political Science and Diploma in Law. Malawi’s Peter Mutharika is ranked third with a PhD of Science of Law and Masters of Laws, all from Yale University in US and a Law degree from the University of London in England. The fourth most educated African President according to the network is Alassane Ouattara of Ivory Coast who holds PhD in Economics and Master’s degree in Economics from the Pennislyvania University. Mr Ouattara, who was elected to the helm of Ivory Coast’s leadership in 2010, also has Bachelor of Science from the Drexel University in Philadelphia. Ethiopian President Mulatu Teshome is fifth in the ranking with the Doctorate degree in International Law from the Peking University in China, Masters of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and the Bachelor degree in Philosophy of Political Economy. President Ameenah Gurib of Mauritius, the holder of PhD in Organic Chemistry from Exeter University in England and Bachelor of Science in Chemistry from the University of Surrey comes sixth in the ranking. According to answeafrica network, president Gurib had a smooth path to her election and has been ruling Mauritius since 2015. Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, with Master’s Degree in History, three degrees in Political International Relations, History and Political Science as well as the graduate degrees in Political Science and International Relations, is the seventh most literate president in the continent. The eighth educated head of state in the region according to the network is Faure Gnassingbe of Togo, with Master’s Degree in Financial Management from Sorbonne University in Paris, France and Degree in Business Administrations from George Washington in USA. Liberian President George Weah who has Master’s Degree in Management, bachelor degree in Business Administration and Bachelor degree in Sports Management is ranked number nine. Namibian President Hage Geingob closes the list of top ten most educated heads of state in Africa, having the Master’s of Arts in International Relations from the Graduate Faculty of the New School, New York and Bachelor of Arts from Fordham University, New York.