Longido District Commissioner (DC) Frank Mwaisumbe has requested the government to suspend Green Miles Safari, a hunting firm in the district after it failed to prevent the killing of 16 giraffes in the block. In a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, Mr Mwaisumbe confirmed to have written to the Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources over his recommendation of banning the Arab investor from conducting further hunting activities following reported deaths of the wild animals. Mr Mwaisumbe accused Salim Abdallah Awadh, an Arab investor owning the hunting bloc of failing to deter poaching activities in his hunting block. “Besides conducting tourist hunting in the concessions, hunting firms are also supposed to protect the wildlife in the area at any cost,” he said. According to Mr Mwaisumbe, the investor had failed to report the alleged killings of the 16 giraffes to Tanzania’s Wildlife Division’s anti-poaching unit (KDU) office in Arusha. “He hasn’t reported the matter to us, neither has he shared it with KDU, we cannot stand there and watch as our wildlife gets depleted,” explained the DC. He said that one giraffe was valued at 30mn/-, adding that his office wasn’t ready to witness the killings of more wild animals. In the same vein, the District Commissioner ordered the arrest of Mr Awadh after the hunting firm failed to award 23 villages surrounding his hunting block 326mn/- as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). According to Mr Mwaisumbe, The investor is said to have failed to honor his commitment for the past four years. The District Commissioner disclosed that the investor was supposed to pay the villages of Ketumbeine, Engarenaibor and Longido divisions a total of 5.5m/- each year as part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). “I’ve directed the police to look for the investor wherever he is and arrest him immediately,” he ordered. According to Mr Mwaisumbe, he had learnt that the investor and the villages didn’t enjoy a healthy relationship, upon his appointment in July 2018. “I was also informed of the investor’s reluctance to pay the villages, an issue I vowed to tackle head-on,” he said. The DC also recalled of how some top officials within the government warned him against meddling in the hunting firm’s issues. He further accused the investor of ignoring letters sent to him by his office. “We had written to him twice on December 5 and January 3, asking him to pay the villages all to no avail,” he added. Efforts to reach the investor proved futile as his mobile phone went unanswered. It was later established that Mr Awadh was out of the country for a business trip.