Basket ball Clinic continues tomorrow at Makongo Secondary School in Dar es Salaam after a successful launch yesterday. Organised by Dar es Salaam Basketball (DB), the clinic is scheduled to be held every weekend, rotating in all five districts of Dar es Salaam. DB Director of Schools and Children, Misoji Mihayo said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that all is going well so far as the training enters its second week on Saturday at Makongo School. “I want to thank all who helped us at Makongo Secondary School during the official opening of the programme; it was very successful and we hope to continue with it every weekend,” he said. “On behalf of DB I want to thank all head masters and head teachers, sport teachers from Ubungo and Kinondoni districts who turned up or brought students to attend the first clinic. I also thanks Makongo Secondary for hosting us and all sports wellwishers who supported us in one way or other,” he said. Mihayo also complemented the regional Under- 18 and U-16 coaches; Denis Lipiki, Robert Kipanga and Mohamed Yusufu for responding and coming to conduct the training. He said that the clinic will continue this week again at Makongo courts and added he expected to see more participants this time around. Mihayo added that they have also invited other coaches and sports well –wishers to come and observe the training. Adding, he said they have already rediscovered many talented players during the opening day of the clinic. But all of them, according to him, need support before they turn better players. “The training include sports teachers, students and all young players aged below 18 years. It started with schools from Ubungo and Kinondoni districts, but in the coming weeks will move to other districts,” he said. According to Mihayo other training grounds will be Ilala-Don Bosco Upanga, Ukonga Airwing, Jitegemee Secondary School and Kigamboni. He said the clinics are designed to producing winning teams in several competitions including School Basketball League (SBL), Inter-Primary School Games (UMISETA) and other events organised under DB.