While President John Pombe Magufuli (JPM) may be all that keen, and has profoundly done well in building mutual relationship between his government and the international donor community. Which has led to foreign aid making a reasonably positive impact on growth, on the other hand he is upset and distressed by a culture of aid dependency syndrome among his people. Dependency here means that habit of many citizen to believe that they can’t function, as a nation, without the help of someone. For him, dependency is an enemy to our development. And he is right because the tradition is by and large embedded in our communities. He knows very well that something must be done to tackle the problem because many countries in Africa have been receiving a considerable amount of foreign aid and yet many have not achieved the desired or expected results. They are still experiencing considerable poverty levels and are suffering from economic hardships. Obviously there are many reasons as to why aid has not necessarily made a huge different in these countries but this is not my focus today. Aid dependency is not good. That is why a constant call from various specialist that stakeholders should agree on strong mutual accountability frameworks, and dramatically improve aid transparency. Likewise there is an emphasis on the importance of joint efforts to design on the recipients’ part and support from the donors’ side in establishing a strong national development strategies based on democratic ownership. These calls remain of paramount importance. As JPM reminds his people on the dangers of dependency, coupled with his assertion that our country is rich, for the last three years he has demonstrated his heartiness in addressing peoples’ problems and he has not stopped. In fact many are beginning to grasp his philosophy, vision and plan for a better life for all Tanzanians. His sense of direction, a clear resolve to advance an agenda of radical socio-economic transformation, is now much clearer to wananchi than it was three years ago when he took power. It was not clear then simply because, as a country, we had reached a critical time in the history of our nation. One would say, in the previous era we witnessed the loss of integrity in some of the institutions of state, business and political and other organisations. The era we lived in was a period when too many leaders had been seduced by greed and succumbed to corruption and the arrogance of power had become unresponsive and unaccountable. At this point in the history of the nation, we are by no means on the verge of a new era of hope and renewal. It is a period when no one can ignore the fact that many, especially political leaders and civil servants are becoming hardworking, honest, committed and accountable. In fact JPM has not stopped insisting that we have learned hard lessons about the vigilance needed to stop lawlessness, greed and selfishness from taking root. In my view, there is in our midst a sense of dedication by many as the leadership seeks to address the persistent realities of burning issues such as those of unemployment, poverty and inequality, to mention a few. I am not sure whether the proposal, by fellow academicians, that JPM has put to an end a state capture is true, but in my opinion I am quite sure that he has restored the integrity of public institutions, continues to tackle corruption, and is committed to ensure that government has the capacity, resources and people to serve wananchi effectivelJPM is simply renewing a capable and developmental state in the East African bloc. JPM wishes that his people would know the perils of aid dependency. He is not saying aid is bad, but he would like to see change of habit. So that is why he continues to take clearer leadership stance on making aid more effective for development results. His opinion that wananchi should now participate fully in national accountability and demand greater tax justice globally and nationally is of paramount importance and cannot be taken for granted. To achieve this, let us support him as he makes Tanzanian leadership communities fully accountable to domestic stakeholders, mobilise domestic resources and continue to improve our systems for financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and fighting corruption. But what is aid? Aid carries different and diverse names even though it is the same thing. Some call it development assistance, other foreign aid and in recent times, it was given another name to technically describe it. This name is an official development assistance (ODA). This is the same as other names but in its use the giver wish to explain it as a type of aid whereby flows of official financing is administered with a view of promoting economic development and welfare of any developing countries receiving the said aid. In other words for a kindly like mine to qualify for ODA, funding must be provided by governments and its main purpose must be improving economic or social well-being in developing countries. In this category, donations from individuals, foundations, or private corporations, whether directly to developing countries or through the intermediary of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), do not count as ODA. It is rather interesting. By the way, aid could be bilateral, that is government-to-government aid or multilateral aid where donor government would channel the remainder of their funds through multilateral organizations such as the World Bank or UN agencies. Unfortunately, for quite a long time, development assistance has only and continues to be known for its expediency. That is to say many understood and therefore firmly continues to highlight the importance of the recipient country from almost one angle of implementing environment in mediating the impact of aid. But little is known about the donor side of the donor-recipient relationship. Here I mean a set of stakeholders and their influence on aid goals, implementation and effectiveness as well as and the negative effects of aid in terms of national development. One needs to reflect on insights for development assistance, especially those related to us as a recipient country ownership, donor type and goal alignment. So well done JPM. Keep on keeping on. Whether we are receiving too little, too much, or just right aid, let us help our people understand the richness of our country and eradicate the culture of aid dependency. Let us ensure that aid is administered well. I think main actors, modalities, and resource flows involved in the aid mechanism should always be under scrutiny. Cheers!