SIMBA SC announced yesterday that their fully armed squad is leaving tomorrow for Zanzibar ready to compete in the Mapinduzi Cup tournament. This was confirmed by the club’s Communications Officer Haji Manara through the Press statement who said they have decided to travel with the full squad basing on the importance of the competition to them which he said will also be used as preparations ahead of their CAF Champions League game versus JS Saoura from Algeria on January 12th this year. “If we will be able to reach into the semifinals of Mapinduzi Cup, then we will leave behind the squad B of the team there while other players would come to Dar es Salaam to take on the Algerians,” Manara said. He further revealed that if Simba would reach into Mapinduzi Cup finals scheduled on January 13th this year, players will again return to the Isles to play in the finale. “It should be remembered that Simba values a lot Mapinduzi Cup competition that is why we are deploying the entire team to give our fans entertainment they deserve,” he said. Meanwhile, Mwajuma Juma reports in Zanzibar that Malindi face their first Mapinduzi Cup test when the play against KVZ in the tournament’s opening match at Amaan Stadium. Nine teams; six from Zanzibar and three from Tanzania Mainland are involved in this year’s round of the Isles biggest club tournament. The tournament’s secretary, Khamis Abdallah Said unveiled here yesterday that the match will staged at 4:15 pm at Amaan Stadium, but its final match will be held at the newly refurbished Gombani Stadium in Pemba. He said three teams from the Mainland and Pemba; Azam, Jamhuri and Chipukizi have already arrived in Zanzibar while Simba and Y anga are due to arrive tomorrow. “Preparations are complete while we are waiting for Simba on Wednesday. Y oung Africans are expected here tomorrow (today) with a full squad,” he added. The tournament’s fixture released yesterday shows after the opening kick off today, Chipukizi will play Mlandege in the second match while the third match will see defending champions Azam locking horns with Jamhuri. Azam FC are the tournament’s defending champions. They defeated URA to reclaim the last year’s crown in a well balanced final played on Saturday 13th January at a fullypacked Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar. Meanwhile, organisers have completed installing floodlights at Amaan Stadium ahead of the Mapinduzi Cup tournament.