CRDB’s Ruangwa branch has made significant stride since it opened its door to custom ers in the fast developing district in L indi Region. The branch, according to CRDB M anaging Director Abdulmajid Nsekel a, started operation in less than a year and h as attracted 1.5bn/- customer deposits. “ We are very proud of the good operation of th is branch in less than a year, th e results are huge...the loans portfolio h as offered some 1.2bn/- loans,” Mr N sekela briefed Prime Minister Kassim M ajaliwa before he opened the branch. CRDB boss said some 40 per cent of th e loans were issued to cashew nuts and sim sim farmers while the remaining 60 per cent lent to traders and workers. The sesam e farmers lent some 406m/- while traders and w orkers loaned 790m/-. M r Nsekela said further that the b ranch managed to open 8700 new accounts under FahariKilimo portfolio. The FahariKilimo is a new platform targeting farm ers engaging in seasonal farm ing after the government directed all payments to be done through bank - ing sy stem. The bank also has a group lending platform dubbed Niamoja that operates in sim ilar system as FahariKilimo. I n its first year of operation the b ranch has managed to hook 12 AM - C OS with 4,600 members who have opened new accounts. “ This is a good beginning since this b ranch was established following your ow n efforts,” Mr Nsekela told the Prem ier Mr Kassim Majaliwa. The PM who was the chief guest declared the last day of the year as CRDB day due to a number of developments th e bank contributed to the district. The bank donated 80m/- for Kassim M ajaliwa Secondary School, construction of R uangwa Stadium, and 10 laptops for A MCOS. R uangwa is one of the six districts in L indi Region with 22 wards. It is bordered to the North by the Liwale District, to the South by the Nachingwea District and to the West by the Morogoro R egion. T he region boasts of an abundance of m inerals and a huge agricultural potential. Being in the Ruvuma basin it h as large deposits of graphite, uranium am ong other commercially demanded m inerals. With the discovery of minerals, the area has seen an influx of people work - ing in the sector. This has put pressure on ex isting social amenities such as hotels, guest houses and lodges.