Young Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said they will approach today’s SportPesa Cup opener against Kariobangi Sharks from Kenya with a winning mentality. Yanga face the Kenyan side in the second quarter-finals game of the third edition of the tournament at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam whose winner will cruise into the semi-finals. There are eight teams engage in a hunt for the tournament’s diadem this year. The first game will see Singida United taking on Bandari FC from Kenya at the same venue in the opening encounter of the competition. Tomorrow, debutants Mbao FC will host two-time winners Gor Mahia in the first encounter before witnessing Simba SC taking on AFC Leopards also from Kenya. Speaking at a pre-match press briefing here yesterday, Zahera said his team’s focus is to win the lucrative tournament for the first time in the club’s history. “I have already said that our objective as the team is to do well in three major competitions which are the Mainland Premier League, SportPesa Cup and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). This is our opportunity for us to show that we can do it and I am happy to guide my team in this tournament for the first time,” Zahera said. He added that since last year, he has been keenly following the competition and that he is very pleased with the way it is organised as such, he cannot wait to start it positively. Quizzed whether he would use inexperienced players as he did with Mapinduzi Cup in Zanzibar, Zahera revealed that out of 22 names of players he submitted to take part in the competition, only two of them played in Mapinduzi Cup while the rest are regular faces of the team. “We have no pressure at all and tomorrow (today), we will play entertaining football since our focus is to play in all three matches and win the cup,” he said. On his part, Yanga captain Ibrahim Ajib said they are all set to do better in the thrilling tournament to win it for the first time. “It is true that we failed to do well in past editions but this is another chance for us to do a good job for the team. Every player in the squad is fit and ready for the contest,” Ajib said. In the same token, Kariobangi Sharks Assistant Coach Collins Omondi said they have not come here to participate but rather to compete. “I know that Yanga is one of the best teams in East Africa but always remember that we have eleven players on the pitch just like them hence in the end, the best team will win,” Omondi said. He further pointed out that Yanga will have good backing from their fans but that could never have any negative impact for them to post remarkable results at the end of normal period of play. His skipper Erick Juma said the ample training sessions they had prior to the tournament gives them hope and confidence to win the tie. “We will respect them but not fear them,” captain said. Earlier, SportPesa Tanzania Director of Administration and Compliance Tarimba Abbas insisted on the competing teams especially those from Tanzania to deploy key players from their respective squads. Also, Football Kenya Federation Head of Competitions Michael Ouma said they want to continue winning the title over their Tanzania counterparts. “I wish to meet with a Tanzania team in the finals in order to showcase our superiority,” he said.