THE government has instructed all urban councils in the country to issue residence licences to all house owners in squatter areas. The licences, which will last five years, will offer legitimacy for the presence of squatter homes in unplanned locations in urban centres. Issuing the directive recently, the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Mr William Lukuvi, gave the councils an ultimatum of three months to complete the exercise. The licence owners will pay annual property taxes. These documents (licences) are now easily acquired under the Fifth Phase Government. They are also offered free of charge. It is these licenced homes that were in the past threatened by a demolition initiative, which have now acquired a new lease of life. Indeed, this is a heartfelt initiative by the administration of President John Magufuli. However, it is imperative to mention that some urban residents whose homes are located in squatter areas live in hovels fearing diseases brought on by unsanitary conditions. Of course there are decent homes in squatter areas but these are few and far between. In urban centres, diseases associated with unsanitary conditions prevail mostly in congested places where squatters, mainly the poor, live in filthy conditions with no clean piped water. Here swarms of houseflies roam at will spread diseases. Unsanitary conditions are often the source of numerous fast killer diseases such as cholera, dysentery and typhoid which, invariably, erupt where communities do not have good latrines, toilets or lavatories. These diseases can break out in schools and villages as well. Fortunately, sanitation improvement is already underway. In May, 2016, the nation initiated the implementation of a 28bn/- countrywide sanitation campaign which is tailored to eliminate unhygienic open defecation practices. The initiative is also keen on ensuring that that all households improve their latrines. So, the initiative seeks to improve sanitary conditions in rural areas as well as urban centres. It is accolades to the government for this people-centred undertaking. The campaign, we are told, will be carried out alongside behaviour change promotion. The campaign also envisages enabling about 700 secondary schools to have decent latrines and hand-washing facilities by the year 2025. The initiative will also see about 1,000 health centres rehabilitated and waste disposal improved in 600 medical facilities by 2025. This is brilliant news, to say the least. Completion of a modern faecal sludge at Tuangoma in Temeke District is a boon for the health of more than 200,000 residents in the vicinity. Haphazard disposal of human waste, mainly in squatter areas in Dar es Salaam must, indeed, be brought under control. With the presence of a smart faecal sludge management facility in place there should be no excuse at all for residents to discharge their latrine contents into the streets or other locations, especially during heavy rains. In fact, the city of Dar es Salaam, whose residential areas are unplanned by more than 70 per cent, needs many more faecal sludge management facilities. And this is the position even in other urban centres in Tanzania. This often translates to poor sanitation. It is logically pertinent to point out here that inadequate access to safe water and sanitation services, coupled with poor hygiene practices, kills and sickens hundreds of children every day. This sorry spectacle also leads to impoverishment and diminished opportunities for thousands of people in this country. Authorities should be aware that without water, sanitation and hygiene, sustainable development is impossible. The state has often said it is keen on improving sanitation, toilets and hand-washing facilities in households and public places particularly in schools and health facilities – a noble crusade, indeed. But implementation appears to be slow or even inadequate. It would be remiss not to mention expressly that sanitation efforts will only come to fruition if clean water is provided. Tanzania has numerous water projects in various stages of implementation but some have stalled. These projects should be accomplished. Poor sanitation, water and hygiene have many other serious repercussions. Children – and particularly girls – are denied their right to education because their schools lack decent sanitation facilities, a problem that has been mentioned in Parliament umpteen times. Rural women, especially those in Dodoma, Singida, Tabora and Rukwa, are forced to spend many hours fetching water. Poor farmers and wage earners are less productive due to illness. Consequently, health systems are overwhelmed and the national economy suffers. As mentioned before, cholera outbreaks hit really hard where unsanitary conditions prevail mostly in congested places occupied by squatters. So, it is these unsanitary conditions that are often the source of numerous fast killers such as cholera, dysentery and typhoid. Everyone should be aware that cholera is an acute diarrheal disease caused by an infection in the intestines that can kill even a healthy adult in a matter of hours. Symptoms, including severe watery diarrhea, can surface in as little as two hours or up to five days after infection, and can then trigger extreme dehydration and kidney failure. Cholera is spread through contaminated fecal matter, which can be consumed through tainted food and water sources or because of poor sanitation and hygiene, like unwashed hands. It is also a shame that not everyone has access to clean water or a good pit latrine. Some rural women carry as much as 18 kilogrammes of water on their heads as they walk 10 kilometres or more each way, to and from the water source. The government, however, is aware of their predicament and is gradually providing access to clean water. Paulina Mundo of Itiso Village in Kongwa District, for example, wakes up a few hours after midnight, picks up a water pot and travels on foot to a distant gully where holes scooped out in the sandy ground yield water. This is the only source of water for Itiso villagers. Paulina’s husband escorts her to the water hole armed with a bow and arrows. Here, hyenas have a penchant for attacking women and children. At the water hole Paulina finds other women and their husbands waiting for the water to ooze out of the sand. It is not uncommon for people in rural Tanzania to walk many hours to fetch water that is not even considered safe to drink. In Tanzanian cities most people wake each morning and turn on a tap without giving it a thought. The affluent in towns and cities eat at least two meals a day and know that they can access medical help if needed. In Tanzania, life expectancy is 51. The economy is 80 per cent agricultural. Most of the land is arable but many people do not have enough to eat. Despite living under such hardships, Tanzanians are full of life and spirit. They have much to teach the rest of the world. The World Health Organisation says that every year more than 3.4 million people die as a result of water related diseases, making it the leading cause of disease and death around the world. Most of the victims are young children, the vast majority of whom die of illnesses caused by organisms that thrive in water sources contaminated by raw sewage. A report published recently in the medical journal The Lancet concluded that poor water sanitation and a lack of safe drinking water take a greater human toll than war, terrorism and weapons of mass destruction combined. According to an assessment commissioned by the United Nations, 4,000 children die each day as a result of diseases caused by ingestion of filthy water. The report says four out of every 10 people in the world, particularly those in Africa and Asia, do not have clean water to drink. At any given time, close to half the population of the developing world is suffering from waterborne diseases associated with inadequate provision of water and sanitation services. There are about four billion cases of diarrhea disease per year, resulting in about one or two million deaths, some ninety percent of which, tragically, are in children under the age of five. Cholera, typhoid fever and hepatitis A are caused by bacteria, and are among the most common diarrheal diseases. Other illnesses, such as dysentery, are caused by parasites that live in water contaminated by the feces of sick individuals. Lakes and streams which people use for drinking water, bathing and defecating are sources of disease, as is water left by natural disasters. Last year's tsunami left victims in ankle-deep water, amid destroyed sewage pipes. People can also contract a diarrheal disease by eating food that's prepared by sick individuals who have not washed their hands, or touching something handled by an infected person and then putting their own hands into their mouths. Experts say there are both short term and long term measures that can be taken to prevent the spread of waterborne illnesses. In the short-term, they say people should wash their hands as much as possible, use a latrine, even if it's a hole in the ground, and boil water and store it. For the long term, communities must have sources of clean drinking water. In fact, up to 50 per cent of places with unsafe drinking water once had systems that functioned, but they fell apart due to lack of maintenance.