THE Judiciary has recorded impressive progress in clearing old cases, with the High Court remaining with only one case that has been pending for the past ten years, Principal Judge Eliezer Feleshi (pictured), has said. “We were able to complete all cases that were on our targets, especially those which do not exceed ten years, many of which were delayed by existence of specific environments,” Dr Feleshi told reporters in Dar es Salaam on Friday. He disclosed that other cases of such nature came from the Court of Appeal with specific directions of being heard afresh. Dr Feleshi was happy to inform the public that the judiciary has crossed to another judicial year with only one case, which has been heard by half. “This case for sure will be completed this period. There are other few cases of between five and ten years that crossed to the new judicial year, which will be determined by next June. We will continue using available resources to meet our targets despite the limited number of judges we have,” he said. According to him, there was great success last year in phasing out backlog of cases as comparing with previous years, thanks to tzplans that the judiciary had directed in carrying out its responsibilities and objectives. Dr Feleshi said, for instance, the target to determine cases at the Primary Court’s level was for each magistrate to finalise 260 cases within six months. Last year, he said, the Court surpassed the target. “This is because 16,216 cases as the court crossed over to the new judicial year in December 31, 2018 were those registered during the last quarter of the year,” said the Principal Judge. He said it was the court expectation that those cases will be determined within six months to pave ways for new ones that will be opened starting January 1, 2019 and thereafter. He said the Primary Court’s target to determine cases within six months after their filing remains intact. Dr Feleshi disclosed that good progress in case handling at both District Courts and Resident Magistrate’s Courts was also recorded, with the objective for each magistrate to determine 250 cases attained “These courts have performed very well. We did not have cases that lasted for over a year and half. The purpose of the court is to finish the cases within one year. Everything has gone well,” said the Principal Judge, who is Special Assistant to the Chief Justice within the Judiciary. He said that there were courts with cases that will be determined in the first quarter of this year. Most of the cases in those courts that crossed to the new judicial year were registered last year. Speaking at the meeting, Chief Court Administrator Hussein Katanga, noted that for the past two to three years there have been a pile up of cases in all court levels, with 80 per cent of the cases remaining undetermined for two to ten years. “But, what gives us relief now is that we have changed the graph. Looking at the figures now, 20 per cent represents the old cases while 80 per cent are cases that are within the internationally accepted time. Therefore, we will give a detailed summary of the cases in the near future,” he said. He further explained that the judiciary has made commendable achievements in improving infrastructures, notably the use of information communication technology and construction of modern court buildings. The judiciary is finalising construction of two new High Court buildings in Musoma and Kigoma, before June 2019 as well as construction of 12 building for Primary Courts, which have been completed and were ready for inauguration. Additionally, he said there were 36 projects, which were due for completion by June 2019, hinting that 28 district courts will be established countrywide before December 31, 2019.