. . . Magufuli opens up over TCRA boss sacking PRESIDENT John Magufuli has for the first time opened up over why he sacked the former Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) Director General (DG), Dr Ally Yahya Simba. The President highlighted that the axe had to fall over the DG because besides the initial contract for the Telecommunication Traffic Monitoring System (TTMS) being missing, it had a lot of loopholes and shortcomings that were depriving the government of billions of shillings in revenues. The Head of State said yesterday at TCRA headquarters in Dar es Salaam that he had noticed with concern that the initial contract between TCRA and a Switzerland-based Societe Generale de Surveillance (SGS) Company went missing, something that made him to use his security machineries to intervene. Because of the malpractices, the President insisted, revenue collections by TCRA were poor and that the communications watchdog was underrating whatever was collected from communications mobile service providers. In April 2016, Dr Magufuli fired the TCRA former boss and board chairman Prof Haji Semboja over the TTMS malpractices. The two were sent packing in an apparent purge by the President targeting those implicated by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) in his 2014/15 report. A statement by State House back then, by the State House Director of Communications Gerson Msigwa, said President Magufuli fired Dr Simba and dissolved the five-member board headed by Prof Semboja over a reported loss of Sh400 billion yearly in mobile phone tax revenue. The huge loss was detailed in the CAG report that was tabled in Parliament and was blamed on a Sh42 billion contract entered between TCRA and Switzerland-based Societe Generale de Surveillance (SGS). The contract signed in 2013 was to undertake a Telecommunication Traffic Monitoring System (TTMS). Details had it that the Head of State was incensed that the government continued to lose billions of shillings from uncollected tax from mobile companies due to a critical omission in the contract to monitor airtime on local calls. On a televised address yesterday, Dr Magufuli said that after observing that the contract details went missing, he commissioned security officers who investigated the matter and later furnished him with the full report over the saga. He further narrated that the government later proposed to parliament that some provisions of the law be amended to ensure that the TTMS was helping the government to collect all requisite revenues from all mobile phone service providers. Dr Magufuli yesterday officiated the commissioning of the new system which aims at monitoring the quality of services provided by mobile telecom companies in the country as well as controlling tax revenues. So far, since it kicked off in 2013, the TTMS has already yielded positive results including helping TCRA to get accurate statistics on local and international communication traffic.