THE government will this year introduce a national programme to control non-communicable diseases (NCDs) as NCD cases increase in the country. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children, Ummy Mwalimu speaking to reporters yesterday noted that the intervention followed hypertension to enter among top 10 of the diseases that claimed the lives of many people in 2018. "For the first time in the country, hypertension has become one of the leading causes of deaths contributing to 1.9 per cent of the mortality rate in the country in 2018," said the minister, while briefing the media on the state of health for the past year. She explained that hypertension or blood pressure killed at least 382 people in 2018, thus to become second after cardiovascular disease in NCDs to enter among 10 leading diseases to claim the lives of many people. Ms Mwalimu pointed out other top 10 diseases to claim the lives of many people in the country as pneumonia, apnoea (children), neonatal death, malaria, HIV/Aids, infections to infants through blood from parents, cardiovascular disease and other diseases. "At least 20,087 deaths occurred in 2018 with pneumonia topping the list of 10 leading diseases to claim the lives of people in the country," she said. Ms Mwalimu informed that pneumonia had become the leading causes of deaths in the country for two consecutive years, noting that the disease killed 2,590 people in 2018, which was equivalent to 12.9 per cent. As for NCDs, the minister attributed these to unhealthy lifestyles, pointing out tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and harmful use of alcohol as among the causes. "I appeal to members of the public to cultivate a culture of doing exercises as one of the steps to control NCDs," she said. Ms Mwalimu noted that the number of pregnant mothers, who delivered in hospitals had increased to 73 per cent in 2018, saying 70 per cent of pregnant mothers gave birth in hospitals in 2017. "The government has set a target to attain 80 per cent of pregnant mothers giving birth in hospitals by 2020," she added. Ms Mwalimu outlined among the strategies to improve the provision of health services in regional hospitals as increasing the number of medical specialists and that every regional hospital would this year get at least 16 fresh medical specialists. "Every regional hospital will get at least 16 fresh medical specialist with each unit in the hospitals getting two medical specialists," she noted.