THE draws for the round of 32 in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) 2018/19 edition will be held today at the Federation of Azam Tv headquarters in Tabata, Dar es Salaam. According to the Tanzania football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo the draw will involve round four (last 32) and round five, which is last 16 stage. Holders Mtibwa Sugar, Young Africans and Azam FC will keep their fingers crossed to avoid being paired at this early stage of the tournament. According to the procedures of the draw, the 32 teams have been seeded and placed in five pots. Pot one has the top ten Mainland Premier League clubs -- seeded as per current standing log. The teams are Young Africans, Azam, Lipuli FC, Mtibwa Sugar, KMC, Coastal Union, Kagera Sugar, Mbeya City, Stand United and JKT Tanzania. Pot two has the remaining 22 clubs, four premier league clubs, 13 First Division League (FDL) clubs, three Second Division League (SDL) clubs and two FA Regional Champions clubs, of which ten will be drawn against opponents from pot 1 and the remaining 12 clubs, will be drawn against each other in the same pot two. The team in pot two are Singida United, Alliance FC, African Lyon, Biashara United, Boma, Namungo, Mbeya Kwanza, Friends Rangers, Majimaji FC, Dodoma FC, Pamba SC, Rhino Rangers, Reha FC, Dar City, Polisi Tanzania, Mashujaa, Transit Camp, The Mighty Elephant, Cosmopolitan, Kitayosce, La Familia FC and Pan African. Pot three will contain 16 balls, X (for teams from Pot one) and will be used to determine the Home and AWAY team on a drawn match. Pot four will have 16 balls, Y (for teams from Pot two) and will be used to determine the Home and AWAY team on a drawn match. In Pot five, one ball from pot three and one ball from pot four will be mixed in pot five to determine the Home and AWAY team in a drawn match. The format of play at this stage is knock out with the successful clubs making the grade to the round of 16 stage. Winner of the ASFC will qualify to represent the country at the CAF Confederation Cup. Mtibwa Sugar is the current cup holder.