KAGERA Sugar FC failed to utilise to maximum their home Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, when they were held to a goalless draw by visiting Mbao FC from Mwanza in the Mainland Premier League clash yesterday. Kagera Sugar started the game at a hot pace forcing two near misses in the 7th minute when striker, Ramadhan Kapera received a high pass from Mwita Gereza only to see his strong kick missing the target narrowly. Peter Malyanzi also wasted another clear chance in 18th minute, when he had custodian Metacha Mnata to beat but he fired the ball wide. Mbao also got a clear chance in the 32nd minute through Evarigist Mujwahuzi, but his kick was parried off by custodian, Jeremiah Kisubi for an abortive corner. On resumption, Kagera Sugar retired injured custodian Kisubi for Ramadhan Chalamanda, while Japhet Makarai and Behewa Behewa came in favour of Kassim Hamis and George Kabila. Mbao FC, on other hand, substituted Zamfutwe Elias in favour of Said Junior, Evarigist Mujwahuzi for Robert Ndoki, while Rapahel Siame replaced Abubakar Ngalema. Mbao made three attempts, coming close to Kagera goal but defenders Seleman Mangoma, Juma Nyoso and Juma Shengenu stood firm to clear away the danger. Mbao’s Team Manager Amani Moshi commended his players for a good game that enabled them to collect an away point. Kagera Head Coach, Meck Maxime, on other hand, conceded that his boys got at least three clear chances but poor finishing was their main problem. In another match, Alliance FC beat Ruvu Shooting 3-0 at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza, while Stand United registered a 1-0 victory over JKT Tanzania at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. The day also saw Biashara United recovering from their slump, beating Mbeya City 2-1 at the Karume Stadium in Musoma. Biashara have just hired Amri Said as new Head Coach and it was his first victory in charge since joining the team, dumping Mbao FC. In Iringa, hosts Lipuli FC registered a 1-0 victory over Tanzania Prisons at the Samora Stadium, while Singida United battled to a barren draw with Coastal union at the Namfua Stadium in Iringa.