KISUTU Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday gave the prosecution two weeks to give actual position of investigations into the trial of two Government Diamond Valuers, charged with occasioning 2.5bn/- loss to the government. Principal Resident Magistrate Wilbard Mashauri gave the directive when the trial of 49-year old Archard Kalugendo and Edward Rweyemamu (50) came for mention, pending further investigations into the matter. He was reacting to concern raised by Advocate Nehemia Nkoko, for the two accused, over his clients’ sufferings in remand due to the prosecution’s failure to complete investigations within a reasonable time. State Attorney Elia Athanas, for the prosecution, had earlier told the court that investigations into the case were incomplete as the police case file was still with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for scrutiny. “You should find out why the case file is still with the DPP and when the case comes up for another mention on January 14, 2019 you have to report on what is going on as far as investigations into the matter are concerned,” the magistrate directed. In the trial, Kalugendo, who was Director of Tanzania Sorting Company (TANSORT) and Rweyemamu, the government diamond valuer, allegedly committed the offence on diverse dates between August 25 and 31, 2017, at different places in Dar es Salaam and Shinyanga regions. It is alleged that, by their willful acts, being government diamond valuers employed with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the accused jointly and together subjected the government to a pecuniary loss of 1,118,291.43 US dollars (about 2.5bn/-). The duo was arraigned after a Parliamentary Select Committee on diamonds presented its report to the National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai, revealing gross irregularities in the supervision and regulation of the 100 billion US dollar business. According to the report, while the Ministry of Energy and Minerals documents showed that the country had extracted diamond minerals weighing 1.47 million tonnes, the report by Tanzania Mineral Audit Agency (TMAA) recorded 1.51 million tonnes. The minerals were valued at 367.3 million US dollars, against 374.6 million US dollars. Despite the value of the mineral, Tanzania is the only country in Africa trading diamond at a low price of around 300 US dollars per carat compared to Botswana that trades the same at an average of 1,900 US dollars. Presenting the report, the Select Committee Chairman, Mr Mussa Azan revealed that the committee had also found records on royalties between 2007 and 2016. The ministry’s report showed about 18 million US dollars was paid against 15 million US dollars registered in TMAA statement. “There was no explanation from both parties regarding the differences in their statements, although they are all government offices,” Mr Azan was quoted as saying when presenting the report. Surprisingly, however, he said, TRA records indicated that between 2007 and 2016, diamonds weighing 942,099 tonnes were extracted, contrary to the 1.51 million tonnes reported by TMAA. This means that TRA did not account for about 198.743 million US dollars or 437.23bn/-, according to the report. The committee accused Petra Diamonds Company Limited, which succeeded Williamson Diamond Mining Company in Mwadui, Shinyanga, of forgery and hiking equipment costs to deny the government its legitimate revenues.