GAMING Board of Tanzania will convene a stakeholder meeting on Wednesday to discuss the government order to temporarily ban advertising of gaming activities in electronic media. The meeting is the reaction to the statement issued by Ministry of Finance and Planning on January 23 that announced to have temporarily banned advertising of gaming activities carried out through local electronic and print media specifically radio and television stations. The move comes a week after a growing outcry by the public over excessive promotion of gaming activities in the country, which various figures believe it to push Tanzanians, especially the youth into laziness. The most recent decry was made during the meeting of the religious leaders organised by President John Pombe Magufuli on January 23 in Dar es Salaam. “We must realise that absence of control of such advertisements endangers the spirit of promoting responsible gaming, hence tarnishing the image of gaming industry,” said the document signed by James Mbalwe, the board’s Acting Director General. Speaking during a meeting with the President, religious leaders pushed for a ban on sports betting, saying the practice is harmful to the economy. The deputy chairman of the Dawoodi Bohra community, Zainuddin Adamjee told the President that they were worried about the rising gambling addiction among the youth and asked for the president’s intervention. He said a majority of the youth, “who make up the biggest workforce for the nation, are now taking part in sports betting instead of in productive work, while traditional and social media are used to encourage gambling through advertisements.” He said government administrators were being used by betting firms to hand over prizes to the winners. Most of the practised today are fans of the big European leagues whose teams are now popular worldwide. Uganda has announced to freeze licensing for betting firms. According to Minister of State for Finance David Bahati, President Yoweri Museveni directed that betting be banned as it was diverting the attention of the youth from work. Responding to the cleric’s request, President Magufuli instructed Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa to work on the matter and take the necessary action. Statistics from Tanzania Revenue Authority show that sports betting companies are taxed 25 per cent; SMS are taxed 25 per cent; each slot machines is charged $43.1102; the national lottery is taxed 20 per cent and machines sites 25 per cent. Physical casinos are taxed 18 per cent while digital casinos are taxed 25 per cent of revenue after winnings. Over the past few years, Tanzania has recorded massive growth in tax collections from gaming activities, due to increasing numbers of players and tighter controls.