KILIMANJARO International Airport’s (KIA) refurbishment that was completed last year has started yielding economic rewards to Kilimanjaro region, with more expected amid acquisition of six planes. Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC) Anna Mghwira, speaking at KIA last Thursday, said that the government efforts to revitalise the aviation sector have propelled positive changes in the region, with business volume increasing as time unfolds. KIA has been significantly changed since its renovation as it has gained more capacity to handle planes; passengers and cargo. The airport is now set for a new high as radar installation process has commenced, with construction of its tower and housing equipment on completion stage. The RC could not however give clear figures in the benefits but promised to do so in due course. “We as a region have started to get many benefits of expansion and refurbishment of the airport, one of them is economic because tourism sector is attracting more people from abroad. They are not only coming to climb Mount Kilimanjaro, but nowadays there is another type of tourism in local foodstuffs,” said Ms Mghwira who accompanied the Deputy Minister for Transport and Communications, Engineer Atashasta Nditiye who toured the airport. Ms Mghwira said big farmers in the region should tap the opportunity as some have done in exporting crops like flowers. She said more has to be done by vegetable growers as well as producers of other crops, livestock keepers and chicken keepers. Recently, Mwanza region started export of goat meat to the Middle East using Air Tanzania Company (ATC) plane. She said while the business volume has increased and more efforts have to be directed at ensuring more exports than imports to enable the country get foreign currency and the shilling appreciate instead of letting businesspersons to import more. The RC noted that apart fromrevenues, businesspeople were making and increasing jobs and the government taxes were swelling. She recalled the reign of the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere when she sees the strides by President John Magufuli to revive the defunct industries and infrastructure. She called on employees, especially engineers to honestly work to enable the nation realise its dreams of attaining the middle income country status in the near future. She proposed that all who were responsible for the collapse of industries, factories and other infrastructure be arrested and arraigned as they sabotaged the country’s economy. “They are the ones who dragged the country and people’s economy backward, making it hard for the government to move to industrial economy,” she said. Ms Mghwira said Mwalimu’s mode should be fully emulated by putting up industries corresponding to raw materials produced to ensure value addition is attained before selling locally and exporting the excess.