COMPLIMENTS from political analysts, economists and other stakeholders on the bold resolve by the government to implement various momentous development projects, across the country, using internal sources of funding, continue to pour in. Tanzania is currently undertaking a number of extraordinary projects worth billions of shillings in various sectors of the economy, which are meant to steer the country to attain middle-income economy by the year 2025. Some of the internally funded projects include the Rufiji Hydro- Electricity Power Plant at Stieglers’ Gorge at 6.5trl/- and the ongoing construction of Standard Gauge Railway from Dar es Salaam-Morogoro-Dodoma at over 7trl/-. Various commentators who spoke to ‘Daily News’ showered praises on the Fifth Phase Government under President John Magufuli for “walking the talk”, through implementation of such ventures some of which had stalled for years due to reluctance by development partners to provide funds. “The country has all the required resources and credible leadership which implements what it promises to the people. “Having worked in top positions within the government President Magufuli has proved that he is a leader who walks the talk on his promises,” a renowned economist and senior lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Prof Haji Semboja, told this newspaper in an interview. Prof Semboja pointed further that even if some projects are funded through loans sourced from external sources, the fact that the country has access to such funds proves its credit worthiness in the international community. The don, however, proposed for revision of policies covering industrialisation and trade, stressing that the current ones are outdated and out of touch with existing realities on the ground. The Secretary-General of Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA), Mr Tony Swai, supported the views by the economist, noting further that Dar es Salaam Port has a crucial role in generating funds internally. “We have the Dar es Salaam Port which is undergoing expansion as well as other harbours. All these can raise funds to undertake development projects in the country,” he stated. Adding, “It is high time all stakeholders at the Port join hands to push up collection of revenue.” Just recently, a Tanzanian analyst based in Montreal, Canada, Mr Masondore Masinde, penned a thought-provoking analysis titled; Magufuli’s Tanzania; New Era For Africa Here At Last,” where he pointed that “the rebirth of the new Africa we waited for so long is looming”. “The Africa that no longer entrusts its future in the hands of others, but its own hands. Tanzania’s President John Pombe Magufuli is on record to pioneer this millennial achievement. This has been a ‘wanted’ attitude in transforming Africa,” he writes in the article. The analyst cited among others, the delay in construction of the eight-lane road project from Kimara to Kibaha which had stalled for years since development partners were dragging their feet on funding. “Initially, funding for construction of this road was expected to be provided by our development partners, but all in futile. We reasoned, for a sovereign State which is accountable, development projects cannot be delayed by aid. In fact, a poor man’s capital is his strength,” President Magufuli stated when inaugurating construction work for the eight-lane road. Mr Masinde faulted some countries in Africa which still heavily depend on aid from developed countries for their own development. “There is no miracle. Tax is the main source. Apart from tax sources, the West has been exploiting naivety of African countries to amass wealth which they return in form of aid and loans. Awareness is growing,” part of the article reads. According to Dr Magufuli, Tanzania has been able to realise the development projects using local resources, when development partners dragged their feet. Hesitancy of the development partners to fund the eight-lane road project at 140.5bn/- was vividly a blessing in disguise. Apart from inculcating a new culture of self-reliance, Dr Magufuli now constructs a wider road, spanning to eight lanes instead of the four earmarked for funding by the country’s development partners. “This is the beauty of controlling your own destiny. This is what Africa needs. Ending slavery mentality and taking up the future in its own hands is the way to go. This way, the continent will, eventually compete with the old world,” the analyst wrote. Mr Masinde urged African countries to appreciate the value of planning and implementing development the way they want it rather than planning out of others’ pockets.