Young Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera said the team’s current top goal scorer, Heritier Makambo is expected to rejoin the squad any moment this week. Makambo missed Tuesday’s 3-1 win over Mwadui FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam as he travelled back to his native country DR Congo immediately following his team’s 2-1 victory against Mbeya City at Sokoine Memorial Stadium last year. Unconfirmed report which spread on different media platforms lately said Makambo has deserted the club and could not be reached through his mobile phone, with some quarters going further suggesting that Makambo, who has netted 11 goals in the league so far has frosty relationship with the club. Similarly, other reports also indicated that he had accumulated three yellow cards, which ruled him out of last Tuesday match against Mwadui. Goals from skipper Ibrahim Ajib, Amis Tambwe and a stunner from Feisal Salum gave Yanga the deserved tangible results from home territory and a good start to the New Year. Ajib, who was given the captain armband recently by coach Zahera after the former bearer Kelvin Yondani, was stripped off for allegedly reporting late to training session, played a key role towards his side’s triumph on the day through leading his teammates by example. He scored the first goal and orchestrated the other two goals netted by Tambwe and Salum respectively. The victory pushed Yanga further at the summit of the pile with 53 points from 19 matches, while at the same time enjoying unbeaten run of the season. Speaking during a postmatch interview, Zahera who was highly pressed by reporters to clear air about why the hitman missed the action said the player (Makambo) is set to return any moment. “He went to DR Congo shortly after Mbeya City match and we e x p e c t him to be back soon. Hopefully he will be available during our next fixture against Stand United from Shinyanga,” Zahera said. He added that only him and goalkeeper, Klaus Kindoki have got Makambo’s phone number he uses while in Congo. Zahera brushed aside reports that Makambo is not reachable, branding them as fake. Elaborating more about the match itself, the coach said he is impressed with the performance of every player in his team. He said the players are sacrificing themselves to get good results. “To say the truth, I do not have a single player who when he misses a game, I suffer headache. All this is possible because I trust them and they are capable to fill positions of other players who miss the game,” he said. Additionally, Zahera predicted that the country’s senior football team Taifa Stars would defeat Uganda and play in the 2019 AFCON finals. Meanwhile, Azam continued to lose ground in the race for Mainland Premier League title, after they were forced to a barren draw by Ruvu Shooting at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast Region yesterday. Following the results, Azam remain distance second on the log with 41 points, massive 12 points behind league leaders Young Africans. However, Azam have played 18 matches compared to Yanga, who have played 19 matches. Defending champions Simba, who have only played 14 matches, remain third on the log with 33 points. The Msimbazi Reds are sidelined from the top flight assignment as they compete in the CAF Champions League group stage campaign.