TANZANIA may maintain supremacy as East Africa’s top recipient of Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) this year, thanks to the country’s favourable business and investment environment. A recent report by the African Development Bank (AfDB) indicates that Tanzania, one of the three drivers of East African economy, has all it takes to become the region’s best investment destination in 2019. The dossier by the continental bank cites the country’s three per cent inflation— the lowest in the region, microeconomic stability, prudent fiscal policy and the fight against graft as among the major drivers in attracting FDIs. The latest figures show that Tanzania recorded inflation rate of 3.0 per cent in November, 2018 compared to 4.3 per cent recorded in the same period in 2017. The low prices of goods and commodities are mainly a result of low cost of food and nonalcoholic beverages. Other countries in the AfDB report as key drivers of East African economic growth are Uganda, Kenya and Ethiopia. Reacting to the report findings, Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Chairman Salum Shamte, expressed optimism that increased FDI inflow will directly benefit the domestic business and investment community. “There is however need for constant dialogue between the government and the private sector to maintain and perk up the existing business and investment attractiveness in Tanzania to attract more investments,” he saidAccording to Mr Shamte, previous dialogues between the two parties have culminated into the drafting of 234-page investment and regulatory reforms blueprint aimed at advancing the country’s appeal to investors. The blueprint highlights legislations, policies and regulations, which need review to improve the investment climate by empowering domestic investors who will eventually partner with their foreign counterparts, Mr Shamte stated. The TPSF was glad with microeconomic stability in the country and called for more support to small, medium and large scale investors. CEO Roundtable of Tanzania’s (CEOrt) former Chairman and founder of Infotech Investment Group Ali Mufuruki said the AfDB report paints a clear picture because the bank has sufficient experience in funding projects in Africa. “The bank has adequate expertise in these issues and as a matter of fact AfDB is the second leading financier of infrastructure projects in Africa after the World Bank,” Mr Mufuruki hinted. The Infotech Investment Group Chairman was however quick to add that in some instances low inflation rate discourages investment as investors want high prices where they can make quick returns of their investments. “The overriding factor in attracting investments is favourable business environment, opportunities for investments, among others,” he explained. The views by the businessman were echoed by an economist and researcher, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, who argued that low inflation rate, encourages long term investments. “Short-term investors are unlikely to be attracted with low prices of goods and commodities since they want to make quick returns of their investments,” Dr Shayo explained. Previous reports have shown that investors’ confidence in Tanzania as an investment hub is on the rise with latest figures showing that 905 projects with a combined value of 13.2 billion US dollars (over 30tri/-) were registered during the past three years. This places the country as the leading destination of FDIs among member states of the East African Community (EAC), accounting for about 40 per cent of all the investments that were received in the bloc in 2017, according to the World Investment Report (WIR) for 2018. According to the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) report, Tanzania registered FDI projects worth 1.2 billion US dollars (about 2.7tri/-) in 2017 ahead of Uganda, which bagged 700 million dollars (about 1.6tri/-) and Kenya’s 672 million dollars (about 1.5tri/-). Experts say low inflation stabilises the economy, making it predictable and a breed ground for improved investment climate. The AfDB report on the other hand indicates that economic growth in Ethiopia is projected to slow down in 2019, stressing that if everything remains constant, Tanzania will step up to take over as the region’s top fastest growing economy. The report released in December 2018 by AfDB did not detail much on the forecast but Ethiopia’s cost of borrowing could be one of the factors for the slump. AfDB says the only exceptions to the regional trend are Tanzania and Uganda. Tanzania’s debt is sustainable in both the short and medium term, with the risk of debt distress remaining low.