 PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday revealed that the 21 judges, two District Commissioners (DCs) and ten District Executive Directors (DEDs) who were appointed recently had demonstrated outstanding performance and high integrity in their previous posts. He expressed high expectations on the new appointees to work to the best of their knowledge for the greater interest of the country. Dr Magufuli made the remarks after swearing in six judges of the Court of Appeal and 15 judges of the high court at the State House in Dar es Salaam. “I must be honest on this. I received more than 110 names of candidates from which I would make a selection, but only a few qualified,” he said, citing an example of Judge Upendo Madeha who effectively handled a case of businessmen who were smuggling sugar in Shinyanga when she was a magistrate at the district court. He said Justice Madeha had even been threatened by the businessmen but remained firm to ensure that laws of the land are observed. “She remained patriotic to the country and her profession; therefore I had no option other than to promote her; she deserved a higher post,” said the Head of State. “Another one is Judge Athumani Kirati who was a magistrate in Kagera Region. He is young and one of the best performers,” revealed Dr Magufuli. According to him, Judge Kirati had been assigned by the office of the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) in Dar es Salaam on some of legal issues. “No matter in what position you are serving, you have to work hard and be ethical… you will be seen and be duly rewarded,” he noted, reiterating that he would continue appointing more judges in order to equip the judiciary with adequate staff. Currently, the judiciary has 81 Judges, who will handle an average of 462 cases in a year, according to statistics released earlier by the Chief Justice, Prof Ibrahim Juma. Dr Magufuli used the platform to instruct the new DCs Charles Kabeho (Tarime in Mara Region) and Thomas Apson (Mwanga, Kilimanjaro Region) to rectify the shortcomings of their predecessors. The President said the former Mwanga DC, Mr Aron Mbogho used to quarrel with the DED and District Administrative Secretary (DAS), consequently delaying development in the district. “The same was the case in Tarime, and that is why I decided to appoint Mr Kabeho who was the Uhuru Torch race leader in 2018; he was so tough to the extent of refusing to launch sub-standard projects,” he added. The two DCs and 10 DEDs attended the event where they joined the 21 Judges to take the integrity pledge. The President instructed the new DEDs never to fight with district commissioners or anyone in their councils. He said that they should instead focus on effective collection of revenues that would be spent on financing development projects. Earlier, Prof Juma thanked Dr Magufuli for the appointments, saying the move would facilitate swifter service delivery. “I thank you very much for appointing additional judges; they will be utilised to the maximum,” said Prof Juma, asking them to be ready to work at any station in the country. For their part, the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan and Minister of Constitution and Legal Affairs Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, hailed the President for considering gender balance in his appointments. “There are four women out of six judges of the Court of Appeal; this isn’t a minor issue, so women should be proud of it,” said the vice President; a comment that was echoed by Prof Kabudi.