WATER is a very vital and finite resource that propels human being’s lives from one day to another. Clearly without water life on this planet would be impossible, because most of the basic things we use in our daily activities to some point require water primarily in our homes. From the moment we wake up to bedtime gallons of water are used to sustain our needs. However, through the funnel of time, water accessibility has been a long-standing challenge; to be specific freshwater accessibility is now a growing peril. Human economic activities have attributed environmental pollution to ascend to another level. Freshwater sources: rivers, lakes, ponds, streams and even wells are polluted by running chemicals from factories and industries, domestic liquid waste is channelled to streams, rivers and other freshwater sources limiting its purity and availability. Regardless of these ills, we have another viable option to combat fresh water scarcity; rainwater harvesting provides a viable solution towards water availability, sadly this alternative is not put to use effectively. In the eyes of young intellects, Salumu Khamisi Bwashi a young water resource and irrigation engineering student perceives rainwater harvesting in his own words as “is a technique of collecting rainwater mostly on a roof from where it flows through gutters into a collection tank for reuse”. Rainwater can also be collected from rivers where it will be redirected to either a deep pit (well or borehole), or reservoir with percolation. Rainwater harvesting is one of the simplest and oldest methods of self-supply of water for households usually financed by the user, the harvested water can be used either for drinking, bathing, laundry and other various purpose such as ground water recharge. On the other side, Mary Temba, an Urban Planner adduced that “rainwater is the collection and storage of water for reuse rather than allowing it to run off, hence can be executed in two ways: surface runoff harvesting and roof top rainwater harvesting”. Rainwater harvesting can be dated back to the Neolithic Age, people back then began constructing cisterns to store water. In Greece, cisterns were employed for rainwater collection in 2,600BC-1,100BC. In the contemporary world China, Brazil, Argentina are taking this process to another stage, rooftop rainwater harvesting is practised to provide water for domestic use, irrigation and water for livestock. In Africa, Senegal and Guinea- Bissau homes are equipped with home brew rainwater harvester made from local organic materials. water accessibility is limited by environmental degradation and climate change, harvesting rainwater is an imperative move to make. Collected precipitation data records Tanzania to have an average precipitation of 1071 mm per year (2014). Tanzania has two sets of rain seasons, short rains(less intense) taking lead between October and December and long rains (more intense) commencing from March to May with the peak in April. This suggests that rainwater harvesting can supply people with enough water for domestic and small irrigation uses by employing effective strategies to collect water during these seasons. Available data points only 50 percent of the people have access to basic water resources, that’s being 79 and 37 percent of urban and rural areas. Further down the line, studies indicate that Tanzania has 96.27 KM3 of renewable water resources, the negative side is that they are unevenly distributed over time and space. Projections estimate that water stress will occur due to population pressure and over-consumption. That being the case, harvesting rainwater might be the best opportunity available. In regions which receive abundant rainfall such as; Arusha, Iringa, Mwanza, Bukoba and Kilimanjaro setting up rooftop water collection systems is vital, to ensure domestic water supply and evade costs in purchasing water for drinking and other uses. There is a need for programmes to be implemented by environmentalist, geographers and ministry of Water to promote this cost-effective method for households and to the next top of the chain. In arid counties such as Israel, rainwater harvesting schemes have been implemented effectively, extending the knowledge to schools where children are taught about the vitality of harvesting rainwater. Bwashi narrowed down of several issue holding the rainwater harvesting potential adding “Mostly of our community living in abundantly rainfall regions doesn’t utilize rainwater harvesting effectively due to lack of education on designing, storing them and treatment. Rainwater needs to be analyzed properly and used in a way appropriate to its safety. Rainwater itself is a clean source of water often better than ground water or water from rivers or lakes, the process of collection and storage often leaves the water polluted and non-potable for instance rainwater harvested from roofs can contain human, animal and birds feces that possibly can cause human health problems like diarrhoea and typhoid.” Bwashi elaborates on how water scarcity can be expunged adding: “ As water resource engineer I agree that rainwater harvesting can solve water scarcity to some extent, if it will be safely collected, stored and treated will provide the independent water supply during regional water restrictions, it will provide water when drought occurs, it will help to mitigate flooding of low-lying areas, it will help to reduce demands on water wells which may enable groundwater levels to be sustained and it will also helps in the availability of potable water as rainwater is substantially free of salinity and other salts.” However, Bwashi and Temba both agreed on the fact that local architects and civil engineer’s ought to maximize on rainwater harvesting and begin designing simple rainwater harvesting models for safe collection, affordable and innovative for community use. Moreover, rainwater harvesting ought be taught at learning institutions to elevate the importance of the matter. Evidently rainwater harvesting barely scratches the surface in Tanzania, still, people use domestic utensils to collect rainwater rather than surfacerunoff and rooftop collection systems, leaving gallons of water being lost to the ground. Let us save rainwater for future use. *Padili Mikomangwa is an Environmentalist based in Dar es Salaam. Mob:255 763 635 597,Email: padilijm@gmail. com