PRIME Minister (PM), Kassim Majaliwa has directed directors of all councils in the country to monitor the performance of public servants in their areas to assess whether they are carrying out their responsibilities and duties to the citizens appropriately. “The government needs to see public servants go to the citizens and listen to their complaints and challenges they are facing so as to assist them in addressing and collaborating with them in providing solutions,” he stated. The PM issued the order on Thursday while addressing citizens at a public meeting held in Lugagala Village, Songea District on his tour of Ruvuma Region to inspect development projects. "Our President, Dr John Magufuli, is a believer of following ethics and working hard and that is why he emphasizes the importance of public servants to serve citizens in their areas as some may not be able to reach the servants at their workplace,” he commented. The PM added that it will be better if the public servants make sure they plan to get out of their offices and visit citizens especially those living in remote areas at least three days a week. He further urged citizens to continue trusting the government and its local authorities in the country as it recognises their problems and promises to provide timely solutions. The PM added that the government will not tolerate indolent public servants. Emphasizing that the citizens should remain confident with the government as all promises set by the President will surely be implemented. Similarly, the PM has ordered the Songea District Commissioner to take action and remove all citizens living and doing activities including agriculture in areas near water sources as such activities will cause the sources to dry up. Initially, the PM laid a foundation stone for the Luyehela Water Project in Muungano Zomba Village to launch the Lugagala Village Water reservoir and inspect the construction project of the village’s health centre. The meeting was attended by various leaders including the Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affaires, Labour, Employment, Youth and Disabled), Ms Jenister Mhagama, who is also a Member of Parliament for Peramiho Constituency and Minister of Agriculture, Mr Japhet Hasunga. Others were Deputy Minister of Water and Irrigation, Mr Jumaa Aweso, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Mr Damas Ndumbaro, Ruvuma Regional Commissioner, Ms Christina Mndeme and other government officials. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has expressed satisfaction with the pace of the construction of Mbinga- Mbamba Bay road, showering praises on the contractor- China Henan International Cooperation Group, commonly known as CHICO- for the good job. The 69-kilometre road, which is being built by the Chinese company at the cost of 129.3bn/-, is expected to be completed in January 2021. Prime Minister Majaliwa inspected the construction of the road yesterday while on his way to Mbinga District, in Ruvuma Region where he is now for a four -day tour. “The construction work is going on well and I am satisfied with its pace. I would like to congratulate CHICO for the stage they have reached. I believe this work will be completed ahead of schedule which is January 2021,” he said.