A few days after disastrous hefty loss to AS Vita, Tanzanian envoys in CAF Champions League Simba have reinforced their squad for the rest of the group stage matches. The move has come after Simba suffered a 5-0 loss to AS Vita Club in Kinshasa in their second match of the group D and coach Patrick Aussems admitted that among the things which led to the defeat was a porous defence. He said the club has decided to take action immediately to resolve the defensive woes which, according to the coach cost the team dearly in Kinshasa. Simba who are currently settled in the third position in group D with three points garnered from a 3-0 win in their opener against JS Saoura, will travel to Cairo for their next group match to face Egyptian giants Al Ahly on February 2. Simba will play their third match at Borg El Arab Stadium before hosting them on February 12th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The eight-time African champions, Ahly who are eager to regain their lost glory after missing the title for some time now, are also reinforcing their squad in different positions as they are seeking to turn their fortunes in the tournament. Simba have managed to snatch two players; a defender and a striker from Ghana and Togo respectively. Sources in the club said the players have commenced trials and will be signed if they pass that exercise. The two players are central defender Moro Lamine who had been with Zambia topflight league side Buildcon and Ayi Abel Kissibo Hunlede, a forward from AS Togo Port. They are already doing trial with Simba and other two including Gor Mahia’s Rwandese forward, Jacques Tuyisenge who might join his compatriot Meddie Kagere at Simba. Another player who is expected to jet in for trial in Aussems squad is said to be coming from Namibia, however his name is yet to be disclosed. Simba could have still be enjoying the second position but the bigger margin defeat has enabled AS Vita to sit second on the table with three points from the same number of games while Simba are third on inferior goal average. JS Saoura who salvaged a point after a 1-1 draw against Al Ahly in Algeria have settled at the bottom of the table. Simba have 10 days to rectify their mistakes they committed in Kinshasa before meeting the historical winners of the tournament; Al Ahly at the Borg el arab Stadium in Alexandria. Meanwhile Simba who will kick off this year SportPesa Cup edition today by facing Kenya’s AFC Leopards have unveiled that they will miss the service of their skipper John Bocco , defenders Erasto Nyoni and Shomari Kapombe who are still nursing injuries and Ghanaian left back , Asante Kwasi who is currently at his native home attending family matters.