Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU) has paid 55,621,000/- out of 338,086,400/- agricultural and marketing cooperative societies (AMCOS) owed to coffee farmers. KCU Board Chairman Onesmo Niyegira told ‘Daily News’ in an interview that to date KCU had paid all 129 AMCOS that were KCU members. He noted that KCU last week dispatched a team of officials to verify all AMCOS and it was discovered that farmers were demanding 33,086,400/- from their respective AMCOS. This followed a directive by Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary-General, Dr Bashiru Ally, during his tour of the region last week, where he directed KCU officials to ensure farmers were paid their outstanding payments. He informed Dr Bashiru that all farmers were paid through their respective agricultural marketing and cooperative societies in line with government directives that sought to clear the outstanding payments by October 20, 2018. According to Mr Niyegira, farmers in Muleba District were demanding 223,285,200/- from 39 AMCOS in the district. Farmers in Bukoba District were demanding 107,774,200/- from 32 AMCOS, while coffee farmers in Missenyi District were demanding 7,027,000/- from four AMCOS. “KCU intervened to rescue the situation and had already paid 55,621,000/- to the AMCOS being part of their levy. A total of 36 AMCOS had already cleared their outstanding payments to the farmers. Nine of the AMCOS were in Muleba, 15 in Missenyi, while 12 were in Bukoba District," he said. He named the AMCOS in Muleba District to include Bulungura, Bujulanda, Katoke, Kimbugu, Ihunga, Bushagara, Bugambakamoi, Rutunga and Rutoro. AMCOS in Missenyi District include Ishozi, Gera, Kigarama, Kanyigo, Buchurago, Bwanjai, Bwera, Buyango, Nsunga, Kassambya, Mabuye, Kabagorola, Minziro, Kyaka and Butalemwa. In Bukoba District the AMCOS include Burugo, Buhembe, Maruku, Rugaze, Migara, Izimbya, Kyaitoke, Ibwera, Katoro, Ruhuku, Rwagati and Bujugo. Mr Niyegira also said 2,117,820kg of conversional clean coffee were at Kemondo Port, while 527,095kg of organic coffee were at Tanga Port ready for sale. He elaborated that during the 2018/19 crop buying season, KCU targeted to collect 5,840,000kg of coffee, but 13,908,774kg was collected. “The target was surpassed due to the government’s concerted effort to curb coffee smuggling into a neighbouring country,” he said. Mr Niyegira also hinted that KCU was working on modalities that would enable coffee farmers in Kagera Region to get second payment. “We are still working on the matter. But, I am optimistic that the farmers will get some payment as plans were underway to stage an auction in Kagera Region starting from the next crop buying season,” he said. Starting from the next season coffee auctions will be held in Kagera Region. This step has been taken to avoid rampant thefts that caused farmers to get low prices. The private sector has also been allowed to participate in auctions and buy coffee at a competitive price. During his recent tour of Kagera Region, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa directed cooperative unions in the region to ensure by October 20, last year, all outstanding payments to coffee farmers to be cleared and by October 30 all coffee should have been collected from villages. Mr Majaliwa said farmers had to follow a new system, which required them to sell their coffee through cooperative unions in their areas. “We are doing this basically to protect farmers from exploitation and ensure they get a fair price,” he noted.