Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems has disclosed that the newly players from Ghana and Togo who are on trials are worthy to feature for the club this season. The Ghanaian defender Lamine Moro and a Togolese striker Kisimbo Ayibek played for Simba in their Wednesday’s SportPesa Cup match win over AFC Leopards at the National Stadium. Simba eliminated the Kenyan football giants with a 2-1 victory in the quarter final match. Goals from Emmanuel Okwi and Clatous Chama were enough to see off AFC Leopards who netted their consolation goal through Vincent Oburu. After the match Simba head coach, Aussems disclosed that the two players, however, need more game to prove their worthiness and convince the technical bench that they deserve to play in the CAF Champions League’s group stage. Simba are in group D of the Champions League alongside the eight times winners Al Ahly who lead the group with four points followed by AS Vita Club and Simba. AS Vita and Simba have tied on three points, but superior goal average favours AS Vita. Algeria’s JS Saoura are bottom-placed with a point. However the Belgian tactician added that it is too early to evaluate the players as they have only played one match . Simba who saw off the Leopards will today face another Kenyan topflight league side Bandari FC which is under the tutelage of former Young Africans striker Bernard Mwalala in the second semi final of this year’s edition of SportPesa. The first semi final to be held early today will pit Mbao FC who eliminated the defending champions Gor Mahia on 4-3 penalties, against Kariobangi Sharks who saw off Yanga by 3-2 goals. Additionally, there reports that Simba has brought another player for trials in a bid to reinforce their squad for the CAF Champions League mission. Reports said that the Namibian Centre forward, Sadney Urikhob has already arrived for trial with the club. Urikhob will now join Moro and Kissimbo to battle for positions. Meanwhile AFC Leopards Serbian coach, Marko Vasiljevic has conceded a defeat saying they have lost to a good side. Marko, however, said he was satisfied with the team’s output insisting that his side was up against a team which is playing in the Champions League group stage. He also accused Simba of featuring illegal players, Ghanaian defender Lamine Moro he claimed to be an active and legal player of Zambian topflight side Buildcon FC.