Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) yesterday dropped the abuse of position and economic sabotage charges against National Identification Authority (NIDA) senior officials. The 1.2bn/- case was pending at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam. Before Principal Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega, the DPP dropped the charges after entering “nolle prosequi” certificate in favour of the accused under section 91 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). State Attorney Wankyo Simon presented the certificate on behalf of the DPP. Following the DPP decision, the magistrate discharged the accused—former NIDA Director General Dickson Maimu, Director of Business Support Avelin Momburi and Budget and Estate Manager Joseph Makani. Others were Director of Aste Insurance Brokers Company Limited Astery Ndege, Transport Officer George Ntalima, Director of Legal Services Sabina Raymond and Xavery Kayombo whose official capacity was not disclosed. However, the provision under which the DPP relied upon to drop the charges allowed the prosecution to re-arrest and charge afresh the accused with same or similar offences. Acting under the provision in question, the accused were rearrested and taken to the Central Police Station. It was alleged that between August 2010 and November 2011, at NIDA, Maimu and Raymond intentionally abused their positions by procuring consultancy services from the School of Law, formerly Faculty of Law of the University of Dar salaam in association with MS Law Partner. The services, it was alleged, related to review of existing legislations and propose the legal framework to support the implementation of theNational Identification programme knowing that there was in existence of a similar contract between NIDA and Gotham International Limited. The prosecution alleged that as a result, Gotham Company obtained undue advantage of 901,078,494/-. Between November 2011 and April 2012, at NIDA, by their willful acts, Maimu and Raymond caused the authority to suffer the 900m/- loss. It was claimed that on diverse dates between 2010 and 2015, being employed in public services, Maimu and one Benjamin Mwakatumbula abused their positions by effecting payments to Gotham International Limited worth 5.175 million US dollars and 6m/-. The prosecution claims that on diverse dates between August and November, 2012, at NIDA, Maimu, Mwakatumbula and Ntalima abused their positions by authorising and effecting inflated payments of insurance premium to Aste Insurance Brokers Company Limited amounting to 117,020 US dollars. It is claimed that Ndege, being the director of the insurance company contracted by NIDA to provide insurance services, with intent to defraud his principal, intentionally used several invoices containing false particulars purporting to be insurance premium of four per cent of the insured amount. As a result, the prosecution claims, the insurance company obtained undue advantages. The court heard further that Maimu, Mwakatumbula, Ndege and Ntalima, by their willful acts, caused NIDA to suffer the 55,312,800/- loss. The prosecution told the court that on diverse dates between 2012 and 2013 at NIDA offices, while discharging their duties, Maimu, Mwakatumbula and Makani intentionally abused their positions by authorising and effecting additional payments of 24 million US dollars to Iris Corporation Berhad.