Polisi Tanzania Head Coach Mbwana Makata said they have assembled enough arsenal to demolish Lipuli FC in their today’s Azam Sport Federation Cup match at at Ushirika grounds in Moshi. It will be the battle for survival as both teams eye to play at the higher stage of the Federation Cup and win a ticket to represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup next season. “We have finalised preparations ahead of tomorrow’s (today) game which without doubt will be difficult bearing in mind that our opponents are also a good side with quality players but my team aims nothing less than a victory,” Makata said. He added that their sole focus is to play in the country’s top flight league for the first time as such, winning their remaining encounters is the only option which can guarantee them that objective. On his part, the team’s Communication Officer Frank Geoffrey urged more fans from Kilimanjaro region to storm the venue and give support to their beloved team. “Always, fans have their part in a game of football as such, we want them to come in their big numbers tomorrow (today),” he said. As it stands, Polisi Tanzania who are placed 7th in FDL group B standings, have notched 14 points from eleven games. They are nine points adrift leaders Geita Gold who have gained 23 points from the same number of games played. Mbeya based Boma FC are second with 21 points while Rhino Rangers and Arusha United both have 18 points only goal difference separate the two sides. Mwanza origin Pamba FC are fifth on the ladder with 17 points while Dodoma FC sit on position six after collecting 16 points from eleven games. Green Warriors, who eliminated defending champions Simba last year are 8th on the slot with 13 points so as Transit Camp from Dar es Salaam but the former have superior goal advantage than the later. Kigoma giants Mashujaa, who kicked out Simba this year, are 10th with 12 points whereas Arusha FC and Mgambo Shooting complete the last two places with 8 and 5 points apiece. In group A, Lindi based Namungo FC tops the pile with 23 points from eleven matches while Mlale FC are placed second with 20 points similar to Mbeya Kwanza who occupies third slot. Mawenzi are fourth with 18 points while Njombe sit on fifth place after collecting 17 points from eleven encounters. Friends Rangers from Dar es Salaam have pocketed 15 points to accommodate sixth slot while Mufindi FC is 7th on the standings with 14 points. Majimaji FC from Ruvuma and Reha FC from Dar es Salaam both have 13 points to occupy positions 8 and 9 respectively whereas Ashanti United and Kiluvya FC each has 7 points to accommodate 10th and 11th slots. However, the going seems tough for Dar City who are bottom placed with 4 points from eleven games altogether.