Let me start my Wednesday column this week by congratulating Simba Sports Club for their splendid performance over the weekend when they beat their Algerian counterparts, JS Saoura by three goals to nil. What Simba did on Saturday is actually what any serious Tanzanian soccer team is supposed to do, especially after failing to do well in continental soccer clubs tournaments for decades. Today I will talk on problems I saw in that game, starting of course, with the two strikers who scored the three magnificent goals, namely, Rwandan Meddie Kagere and Ugandan Emmanuel Okwi. Any Tanzanian soccer player who would like to refer to himself as a striker, needs to go back to the video of that game and see for himself what the scorer of the two goals in that match, Kagere did and what the ever-green Okwi did to notch in the first goal a few minutes before half-time. Both players, and all foreigners, were able to do what they did because their approach to the game was quite different from our Tanzanian players. From the word go, Okwi was not only serious with whatever he did on the pitch. But as the match progressed on, he clearly demonstrated that it was just a matter of time before he would be able to get the first goal for his team. The Ugandan kept on running from one end to the other and always appealing for the ball from his colleagues, something you hardly see from our players who don’t seem to know what they really want! The same thing could be more or less said about Kagere, who was introduced in the match after John Bocco had a muscle crump. In fact, nothing excited me than Bocco’s departure from the pitch. Not that I was happy with his injury, far from it. But he should not have been fielded in the first place. Actually, Kagere and Okwi were solely responsible for turning around the fortune of the match on that day, and it’s my sincere hope and wish that, going forward, the coach is going to pair the two players who seem to understand one another fairly well. The other problem which was clear to note by any keen observer last Saturday is Simba players’ rustiness and lack of strength. With the exception of Kagere and Okwi, most Simba players were not only rusty, but also clumsy although they finally got into the groove after getting the two goals. Kagere and Okwi were in good form and kept on running throughout the match because their respective national soccer teams are always engaged in friendly matches. For instance, on the day Taifa Stars were being beaten by Lesotho, the Cranes were playing a friendly match against their Nigerian counterparts, the Super Eagles in Lagos. Now show a friendly match that Taifa Stars have played since their match against Lesotho. Simba players’ rustiness and lack of strength could be attributed to lack of top-flight friendly matches and strength building exercises. But my readers should not misunderstand me. I’m not writing Simba off, far from it. It is certainly a very good team. But the point is, they are not getting adequate top-flight friendly matches. They badly need such matches in order to get to know one another better and smoothen and quicken their passes. If, Simba can be provided with numerous friendly matches against clubs from other parts of the continent, starting with southern Africa, I don’t see who can beat them, starting with teams in their own group. And dealing with the strength problem, Simba also need to take a hard look at their players’ diet. Yes, the players are too skinny, they lack muscles. Football requires a lot of muscles (strength), suppleness, speed and stamina; and that can only be learnt and gained through a lot of friendly matches against sides that are better than Simba. Providing Simba with numerous topflight friendly matches would enable the club to kill two birds with one stone in that on one hand, it would reduce quite considerably challenges on its path to the Champions League crown and secondly, it would clear its path to retaining the premier league. In a nutshell, Simba have no option but to get as many friendly matches as possible and they don’t need to go far as they can get such matches even in the region against the likes of Uganda’s KCCA, Kenya’s Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards before travelling to the south against top Malawian, Zambian and Zimbabwean soccer clubs. Indeed, it would not do them any harm if they could play one friendly match every week before they take on their CAF group matches. With their present ownership set up, I expect the team to have a nutritionist as the players leave a lot to be desired. They badly need not only strength exercises, but also a lot of protein to enhance their muscle building process. After watching, later on the same day, the second tie between Egypt’s Al Ahly and AS Vita from the Democratic Republic of Congo. In a match played in Alexandria in Egypt, Simba’s technical bench need to caution their players. Especially when they play against the Egyptian club, who are masters of diving and all sorts of un-sportsmanship conduct. That team is not as great as we think it is! They win most of their matches, especially at home, through the assistance of referees from the Maghreb and the AS Vita, Al Ahly match was no difference. For instance, the red card against Vita’s defender, Charles Kalonji, in the 36th minutes of the match was nothing but a telling injustice. Even the Egyptian team’s second goal through a penalty should not have been given as it was clear that the Egyptian striker had dived. In fact, if anything, the Egyptian striker should have been yellow-carded for diving. Simba will have to be extremely careful against the Egyptians, especially when they take on them in their own backyard. After watching the two matches from Simba’s group from the comfort of my sitting room, my verdict is that the strongest team in the group is AS Vita. Whose players are not only well built, strong and are very fast on the ball, but they also work tirelessly throughout the match. I’m quite sure, AS Vita will destroy Al Ahly in their return leg match in the DRC where they will not get the benefit of the Tunisian referee they had in Alexandria.