THE Government Chemist Laboratory Authority (GCLA) has increased manpower to intensify control of importation of uncertified chemicals through the borders. Chief Government Chemist Dr Fidelice Mafumiko explained that his office has acted against the previous challenge of lacking GCLA officers at the borders. Unscrupulous traders were using the loopholes to import chemicals through the borders without subjecting them to inspection and certification by the authority. This resulted to flooding of uncertified chemicals in the market, a situation which put health and security of Tanzanians as well as environment at risk.Dr Mafumiko noted that one of the achievements of the GCLA attained during three years of President John Magufuli in office was the increase of manpower to enable it effectively undertake its duties. He gave the explanation when a team of public relations officers of the institutions under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children visited the GCLA headquarters over the weekend. The officers now undertake a special programme dubbed—Tumeboresha Sekta ya Afya (we have improved health sector), which intends to expose improvements made in the health sector during the three years of the government. “We have managed to get more new employees whom we have dispatched to various borders of the country to inspect imported chemicals,” Dr Mafumiko said.For instance, between May and December last year alone the government recruited over 70 workers for the authority, bringing to 290 the total number of the agency’s employees. GCLA’s Chemicals Management Department Acting Director Daniel Ndiyo elaborated that due to lack of staff, previously the authority had to use the health officers from the ministry’s department of health stationed at the borders to do the inspection. He said lack of the agency’s experts at the borders led to inefficiency in controlling the chemicals entering the country. On other hands, the Chief Government Chemist pointed out that there were other several successes the authority has made within the three years of Dr Magufuli’s presidency. Among them is the upgrading of the laboratory status from the agency to the authority in 2017. “This is very crucial step because it has given us more powers in performing our duties,” he said. The authority managed to register over 1,600 dealers of chemicals during the period and acquired modern laboratory equipment, enabling it to efficiently perform laboratory tests and issue reports timely.