PLANS are underway for the government to set up a water resources centre of excellence for conducting studies on water resources to advise the Ministry of Water and Irrigation on good management of the water resources in the country. This was revealed by Minister for Water and Irrigation, Prof Makame Mbarawa, in Dodoma yesterday. Prof Mbarawa said the centre would also analyse statistics and present them to the National Water Board for decision-making and advise the ministry. “The centre will draw its experts from various sectors of the economy to conduct studies on water resources and develop water resources management plans,” he noted during a ceremony to launch the new national water board chaired by Mr Hudson Nkotagu. Prof Mbarawa told new national water board members that lack of financial resources hindered activities of the previous board and that the new board should develop strategies to create new sources of revenue. “The new board should be creative to create new sources of revenue to run its activities and support the management of water resources in the country,” remarked the minister. The minister pointed out that apart from advising the ministry on the management of water resources, the board was tasked to develop different strategies, which would create new sources of revenue. “The revenue will facilitate the implementation of integrated water resources management and development planning. I am optimistic that the new board will advise the ministry on new sources of revenue,” he noted. Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, commended previous national water board members for advice to the ministry to address water disputes in various parts of the country. However, the PS said instead of meeting 15 times, the previous board had met only five times due to lack of funds and it had also failed to prepare annual reports on water resources. For his part, National Water Board Chairman Hudson Ngotagu expressed gratitude to the government for trust to appoint them members to the new board, saying they would utilise a good number of water bodies in the country to create new sources of revenue for water resources management. He said different activities conducted in water bodies such as lakes, rivers and the Indian Ocean would be new sources of revenue, citing fishing activities.