GOVERNMENT initiatives in combating poaching in the country’s national parks have gained investors and development partners’ confidence, thereby attracting more support in the tourism sector. Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Prof Adolf Mkenda (pictured) , revealed this after meeting German Ambassador to Tanzania, Dr Detlef Waechter, in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Prof Mkenda said the government would intensify a crackdown on poaching to achieve the target of zero poaching by 2024. He said Tanzania and Germany had been cooperating in various conservation issues, including an anti-poaching drive. “Germany has injected €18m (about 47.5bn/-) into Selous Game Reserve.” “Regarding anti-poaching efforts, the ministry has been receiving positive comments from stakeholders and this will attract more tourists to visit our national parks,” said the PS. Among the conservation projects that have yielded tangible results is the Selous Ecosystem Conservation and Development Programme (Secad), which is a joint effort of Tanzania, Germany and civil society to effectively conserve Selous Game Reserve. “This is done to ensure the Selous ecosystem remains intact, while conservation and sustainable use of natural resources contribute to rural development,” he noted. The programme’s goals are to strengthen management of the park and priority parts of the buffer zone around the reserve and Selous-Niassa Wildlife Corridor. Moreover, Germany has planned to extend its conservation support to Katavi National Park in Katavi Region, a move that will guarantee safety of wildlife and attract more tourists. Other projects are implemented in Serengeti National Park and Serengeti District, Mara Region. However, he was of the view that the government would remain committed to fighting against poaching since it was detrimental to local tourism. In so doing, Prof Mkenda said the ministry would continue promoting tourism in attractive sites in southern and western circuits as they hadn’t been receiving as many tourists compared to those in the northern circuits. According to him, this will go hand-in-hand with promoting beach and cultural tourism that haven’t either been receiving due attention for a long time. “We have all reasons to make better use of available attractive sites in increasing revenue and this will be possible if the number of tourists increases,” he noted. In September last year, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan launched a paramilitary group tasked with combating poaching and illegal trafficking of wildlife organs and products. The guards, who form the paramilitary force, were from the Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (Tawa) and Tanzania National Parks Authority (Tanapa), while others were recruited by the Tanzania People’s Defence Force (TPDF) and will be operating under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. The Vice-President expressed her optimism that combating poaching would boost the sector of tourism even more by attracting more visitors. The move, she said, would help increase the number of wildlife, which attracted tourists.