The 17th edition of the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon 2019 has been launched at Kibo Palace Homes in Moshi jointly with various leaders, co-Sponsors, Kilimanjaro Amateur Athletics Association and Organizers. Launching the marathon, Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC) Anna Mghwira praised the sponsors and organisers led by Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42 km, Tigo- 21km Grand Malt-5km Fun Run and other water table sponsors for making the Kilimanjaro Premium lager marathon a big event that has for the past 17 years made Moshi and Kilimanjaro a place where most people now want to visit. She praised Kilimanjaro Premium Lager for offering an additional 5m/- to encourage Tanzanians to excel, where the first Tanzanian male and female will receive 1.5m/- each, while those who come second will receive 1m/- each. She called on business people to make good use of this opportunity as there is usually a lot of business during the Kilimanjaro Marathon. “Hotel owners can start thinking of coming up with different packages and offers to attract tourists to visit various attractions and for bar owners and various other institutions can come up with different promotions for the whole week to promote your businesses to generate more income,” she said. She lauded other sponsors including KK Security, Keys Hotel, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, AAR, Kibo Palace, Barclays Bank, Precision Air and organisers Wild Frontiers, Deep Blue Media and national coordinators, Executive Solutions. Speaking during the event, TBL District Manager, Mwamba Stanslaus, whose brand sponsors the 42 km race said it was with a great sense of pleasure that they unveil the campaign for next year’s race, ‘Mbio ya Watu’-The Peoples Race. “This sums up the unifying nature of the Kili Marathon, its associated events and what it means to all our participants, stakeholders and sponsors alike,” he said, adding that this is a chosen campaign slogan for Kilimanjaro Marathon 2019. He said this year’s prizes total 20m/- with the first male and female receiving 4m/- each, while there is an additional 5m/- to encourage Tanzanians to run faster. With regards to the Grand Malt 5km Fun Run, the District manager called on participants to turn out in large numbers as this is a race of all ages. On his part, the Tigo Northern Zone Manager, Lilian Mwalongo said “Tigo is proud to be the main sponsor of the illustrious Tigo Kili Half Marathon for the fourth year running. As the market leader in digital lifestyle transformation and financial inclusion, we are once again pleased to enable registration and payments for participants in the coming event through our fully fledged mobile financial service - Tigo Pesa. He said over the years, Tigo Pesa has proved to be the best and most reliable means of payment for all local marathon enthusiasts from everywhere across the country. “Moreover we welcome everyone to capture and share their memories of the race via Tanzania’s fastest 4G+ ,” he said. According to the Kili Marathon Race Director, John Addison said there are exciting plans in place for this year’s event, a weekend of festivities being promoted within the town of Moshi, a fabulous Kilimanjaro Lager beer garden at the stadium finish and a host of other initiatives, such as special on route photographs of each and every participant in the marathon and half marathon.