THE Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) yesterday charged afresh former Director General with National Identification Authority (NIDA), Dickson Maimu and five others, increasing the economic sabotage charges involving 1.2bn/- from 27 to 100 counts. Before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam, the charges against the accused are conspiracy to defraud, forgery, use of documents intended to mislead principal, obtaining money by false pretences, money laundering and occasioning loss to a specified authority. Other accused are Avelin Momburi, who is the Director of Business Support, Astery Ndege, the Director of Aste Insurance Brokers Company Limited, Joseph Makani, who is the Budget and Estate Manager, George Ntalima, the Transport Officer, Xavery Kayombo, a businessman and Sabina Raymond, Director of Legal Service. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges before Senior Resident Magistrate Salum Ally. The magistrate informed them that their case will be tried by the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court. The prosecution led by State Attorney Wankyo Simon and an officer with Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Leonard Swai, informed the court that investigations into the matter are complete and they have already filed information of the case to the High Court. Under such circumstances, the magistrate adjourned the trial to February 12, 2019, when the court will conduct committal proceedings of the case. During the session, the prosecution will disclose the nature of evidence and the number of witnesses who will testify at the trial. On Monday, the DPP dropped the abuse of position and economic charges against the senior officials which were pending at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam. Before Principal Resident Magistrate Janeth Mtega, the DPP dropped the charges after entering “nolle prosequi” certificate in their favour under section 91 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). State Attorney Wankyo Simon presented the certificate on behalf of the DPP. However, the provision under which the DPP relied upon to drop the charges allowed the prosecution to re-arrest and charge afresh the accused with same or similar offences. Acting under the provision in question, the accused were rearrested and taken to the Central Police Station.