MINISTER of Constitutional and Legal Affairs Prof Palamagamba Kabudi has asked the judiciary to establish mobile courts to make judicial services accessible in hard- to-reach areas. This will also help to reduce complaints regarding delays of cases, he says. The minister made the remarks at State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday, shortly after President John Magufuli swore in six Judges of the Court of Appeal and 15 others of high court who were appointed recently. “I have been receiving many questions in parliament on the issue, so it’s the turn of the judiciary to find the means of having it operational,” he told Chief Justice Prof Ibrahim Juma. Prof Kabudi’s advice got a quick rejoinder from President Magufuli who, in his speech, stressed that mobile courts were essential, saying the government would back up the move. Dr Magufuli said the government would conduct an evaluation to establish the actual needs and provide vehicles that would be used as courts in areas lacking judicial services. Prof Kabudi cited examples of Simanjiro District in Manyara Region and Kilombero District in Morogoro Region. “We can’t wait for the construction of courts in all districts; we need to have another alternative,” he stressed. The Head of State also urged members of the judiciary to work in accordance to the laws of the land, and solving challenges that are within their capacities while the government played its part in addressing the shortage. “I will continue to appoint judges basing on the country’s capacity to accommodate them,” said the President. Dr Magufuli instructed district commissioners not to misuse their powers by harassing other people. “There has been this trend in Mwanga District in Kilimanjaro Region where the District Commissioner had sent the District Administrative Secretary (DAS) and the District Executive Director (DED) to remand. Earlier, Prof Juma said in June, they will launch two resident magistrates’ courts, one in Musoma, Mara Region and another one is in Kigoma Region. “There are 12 ongoing projects of primary courts and 36 other projects and construction of 28 district courts that upon completion will need magistrates and other staff,” he said. He thanked President Magufuli for appointing 21 Judges, six among them for the Court of Appeal and 15 for the High Court. Six Judges of the court of appeal are Winfrida Korosso, Barke Sahel, Lugano Mwandambo, Dr Mary Levira, Ignas Kitusi and Rehema Semeji. The 15 Judges of the high court are John Kahyoza, Susan Mkapa, Fahamu Mtulya, Cyprian Mkeha, Willbard Mashauri, Dunstan Ndunguru and Seif Kulita. Others are Upendo Madeha, Yohane Masara, Mustapha Ismail, Athumani Kirati, Zephrine Galeba, Dr Ntemi Kilekamajenga, Dr Juliana Masabo and Lilian Mongella. Together with the judges, two district commissioners Thomas Apson-Mwanga and Charles Kabeho-Tarime and 10 new district executive directors for Pangani (Tanga), Bahi (Dodoma), Tunduma (Songwe), Ulanga (Morogoro) Njombe, Nkasi (Rukwa) Kibondo (Kigoma) Mufindi (Iringa) Itilima (Simiyu) and Kishapu (Shinyanga) took the integrity pledge that was led by the Commissioner of Ethics Secretariat Judge (Rtd) Harold Nsekela.