THE government has recognised Huawei’s efforts on ICT talents eco-system development since it enhances employability and overall competitiveness. Minister for Industry and Trade Innocent Bashungwa said ICT was crucial to Tanzania’s infrastructural development and a crucial enabler for 2025 Vision. “In developing ICT skills, talents are the most important capital,” Mr Bashungwa said. He added: “Lack of skilled people will limit our capability of adapting, managing and operating new technologies.” The development of ICT human capital will accelerate Tanzania’s socioeconomic development efforts in the information age. The minister made the comment at the award ceremony of Huawei Tanzania ICT Competition 2019-2020 in Dar es Salaam on Friday. The competition aims at providing a platform for global ICT talented students to showcase their ability to compete and communicate, encouragement to study and drive the growth of a robust ICT ecosystem. The recognition came at the down of the 4th industrial revolution. ICT plays a pivotal role in shaping the nation’s economy, providing answers to some social challenges and enhancing inclusive and sustainable development by driving business growth, creating jobs and enhancing productivity and efficiency. With the rapid development of the global digital economy, the World Bank’s latest report points out that sub-Saharan Africa’s demand for digital skills in 2030 is as high as 230 million people. In Tanzania, there is a shortage of ICT skills in both public and private sectors. Frank Zhou, the CEO of Huawei Tanzania, said it was a privilege to work and partner with the government on ICT connectivity to rural areas by building low cost, solar powered and fast deployed base stations. “We are proud of being in the frontline in building a digital workforce, serving more than 35 per cent of Tanzania’s population since our establishment in 2007,” Mr Zhou said. Huawei has created more than 1000 direct and indirect jobs, also provided training to more than 2,000 ICT engineers. To cultivate more ICT talents, Huawei Tanzania has held two corresponding talent programmes. The first one is a job fair which was held in July 2019. The second one is ICT competition which has been the second consecutive year for Huawei Tanzania to participate in the global event. Over 2,500 students from various universities across Tanzania are expected to participate in the contest with various subjects including network, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and big data under the theme “Connection, Glory, Future”.