THREE religious bodies have declared their commitment to help the country achieve the goals of zero preventable maternal death, zero unmet access to religiously appropriate family planning and zero gender-based violence and harmful practices. The Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT), the Tanzania Muslim Council and Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC) made their commitment at their meeting held in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. They held the symposium, which was facilitated by the Norwegian Church Aid, under the topic: ‘Faith in action for Gender Justice’ and ‘Faith and the Importance of Debates for Promotion of Human Rights’. The forum was part of marking the climax of the 16 Days of Activism on the 10th of December as the world marked International Human Rights Day. The meeting meant to explore the role of faith actors in promoting women’s rights as human rights as well as their unique contributions to ending gender-based violence in Tanzania. In their joint commitment, the major religious institutions pledged to create awareness on sexual and reproductive health to their congregations and incorporate sexual and reproductive health messages with religious scriptures while preaching. They said they would utilise religious media platforms to disseminate messages regarding sexual and reproductive health and preventing gender-based violence. This would ensure that women, girls, boys and men have access to age-appropriate information required to adequately protect themselves from unwanted pregnancies, early or forced marriages, sexually transmitted infections and HIV / AIDS. “We will create awareness on spacing of children and positive parenting in our churches and mosques and also identify all cultural practices within our own communities, which are harmful to mothers and children and advocate for their transformation,” the leaders promised in their joint statement. The organisations further said that they would allocate more financial and human resources for maternal health to religionassociated hospitals and health centers. Tanzania has the 17th highest adolescent fertility rate in Africa (the adolescent birth/ fertility rate is the number of births per 1,000 girls aged 15-19). The adolescent fertility rate has increased from 116 to 132 between 2010 and 2015/16 , according to the Demographic Health Survey (TDHS 2015/16 ). Teenage pregnancy has also increased by 4 per cent in the country since 2010. By 2016, one in four adolescents aged 15-19 years old had begun childbearing. However, the religious bodies acknowledged the extraordinary progress made in several fields of social and economic development which have contributed to gender justice in the country.