AS we celebrate the festive season and approach the end of 2019, it’s good to welcome the New Year 2020 while mindful of one of the three targets of Tanzania’s Vision 2025: to develop a strong and competitive economy. The strong and competitive economy Tanzania wants to have by 2025 has the following attributes: to have ‘a diversified and semi-industrialised economy with a substantial industrial sector, macroeconomic stability manifested by a low inflation economy and basic macroeconomic balances and a growing rate of 8 per cent per annum or more’. Others are to have ‘an adequate lev el of infrastructure needed to cope with the requirements of the Vision in all sectors of the economy and an active and competitive player in the regional and world markets, with the capacity to articulate and promote national interests and adjust quickly to regional and global market shifts’. Tanzania’s development projects are geared towards achieving this target and others outlined in the Development Vision 2025 and as we look around in the country we see almost everywhere something new being done about having an industrial and middle-income economy which is at the heart of President John Magufuli. His speeches wherever he goes in the country reflect this and his push for realising the Vision brings hope and assurance that we are on track. We see that the government, in collaboration with the private sector, wants to ensure we have an inclusive economy – that’s a type of economy that benefits all Tanzanians. To achieve this, the government has initiated various strategies to empower especially women, the youth and people with disabilities and ensure nobody is left behind. What they have to do though is to form groups so that they may access soft loans to start projects and create jobs that will help them uplift their lives. Not only that, investors – both local and foreigners - are invited to invest in various sectors of the economy to facilitate improved social services. But investments cannot succeed where there is no reliable water and electricity and that is why the government has decided to implement safe and clean water projects in different parts of the country and electrify all villages by 2025, including having improved rail and road networks. For example, more than 7,000 villages have been electrified through projects implemented by the Rural Energy Agency (REA). The target is to have 12,265 villages electrified countrywide by 2025. So, as we approach the end of 2019, we look at the future with a positive attitude that what is coming gives us great hope as far as development is concerned.