MAINLAND side, Kilimanjaro Stars Head Coach, Juma Mgunda said minimal number of players required at CECAFA tournament prevented teams from doing proper rotation, thereby hampering good performance from them. Hosts Uganda Cranes claimed their 15th CECAFA Senior Challenge title after mercilessly demolishing Eritrea 3-0 in the final of the competition, which climaxed on Thursday at the KCCA Lugogo Stadium in Kampala, Uganda. It was a good performance from the Cranes in the contest as they accomplished their mission 100 per cent without entertaining any defeat from all the games played. Kilimanjaro Stars finished on fourth slot as they again succumbed to a 2-1 defeat from Kenya’s Harambee Stars in the third place playoff match. Stars once more, failed to stamp revenge over Harambee Stars, who pocketed a bronze for finishing on third place. Gadiel Michael scored the consolation goal for his team in the 83rd minute of the match, while Harambee Stars goals were netted by Kenneth Muguna (16th minute) and Hassan Abdallah (36th minute). Speaking at a press conference shortly after the match, Mgunda said that the competition was losing its rhythm because of the few number of players (20), who are required by each team to have in their squad saying it deprives them rotation freedom. “To say the truth, the number of players is very small and we lacked depth in the squad to do proper rotation of players. It could have been better if the number of players was at least 23 just like the requirements of Africa Cup of Nation (AFCON),” said Mgunda. He then requested CECAFA to consider increasing the number of players for them to have wide range of player selection at the competition insisting that the mode of playing which gives a team one day of resting need depth squads. Commenting on the match itself, Mgunda said his charges lost concentration in the first half and gave room for Kenya to score the two goals. Moreover, Mgunda revealed that the competition was a good platform for his charges prior to the upcoming Africa Nation Championship (CHAN) games of which, he said some of the players in his squad were specifically picked to get experience and confidence of playing in the CHAN encounters. “The five competitive games we have played here have given us a clear picture about the squad in terms of where we should upgrade for us to do well in CHAN and other international matches,” Mgunda disclosed. On his part, Harambee Stars Head Coach, Francis Kimanzi also said general organisation of the tournament needs to be changed to suit the current demand of modern football. “It’s just unfortunate that we are returning back home with many injured players because the matches are played on regular basis without ample time of players to rest and we lack rotation of players,” Kimanzi said. Commenting on beating Stars twice in the same competition, Kimanzi said that does not mean they were the best team only that they capitalised on chances created. in both matches.