DAR ES SALAAM Stock Exchange (DSE) poises to suffer further as global investors shift their attention to UK markets after Conservative Party won last week general election. DSE since the beginning of the year has been trading on bearish mode. Analysts based their prediction on the fact that the Conservative majority win lessen Brexit uncertainties on top of market friendly policies. Orbit Securities Market Analyst Imani Muhingo said global portfolio investors increase investments in UK at the expense of emerging markets due to reduced uncertainties on either or not Brexit will take place. “This increases global appetite for UK’s financial assets which is seen in the increased inflow as well as falling of UK’s treasury bonds. “Both reasons risk a decreased foreign inflow to our markets, or rather an actual outflow, hence less market activities and a bearish trend,” Mr Muhingo told ‘Daily News’ on Wednesday. On the bright side, he said, a stable UK with “certainty with Brexit improves chances of a global economic growth” which affects commodities prices, the largest portion of Tanzanian exports. According to Bank of Tanzania, the country was projected to import goods worth 361.99bn/- and export 35.15bn/- to UK last year compared to 293.23bn/- and 40.38bn/- respectively. Also according to Bloomberg analysis UK was not among top 15 trading partners of Tanzania. The top 15 countries are those total trading was over 230 million US dollars (over 500bn/-). Zan Securities Chief Executive Officer Raphael Masumbuko said DSE may experience minimal impact in the short run as UK frontier funds have to grapple with possible regulatory changes post Brexit. “In the long run, that might open the door for other European Frontier Funds to start considering a move into our market; however this is a very long shot,” Mr Masumbuko said. Another area, according to Mr Masumbuko, is Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) from the UK, where the UK will seek to negotiate new bilateral trade deals with almost every country, but this won’t come until post Brexit. Economist, Dr Hildebrand Shayo said the Tory win will likely come with a sharp surge in the pound, and thus the upside seen during heated debate seeing in sterling will reflect the market willingness to take on some risk. “This will be good for business in the UK,” Dr Shayo, who is also a lead economist with TIB Development Bank, said. He said the Tory victory was an immediate win for UKfocused companies that kept on buying British made philosophy such as house builders like Persimmon, Barrett, Gleeson, Bellway and Galliford Try. On interest rate, Dr Shayo said it was “too early to certainly indicate what will happen… I think will put pressure on the Bank of England to consider cutting interest rates”. However, with the approaching Brexit deadline, volatility is increasing in UK markets, possibly if the Labour party emerged victorious, volatility would even be higher.