INJURY free Young Africans are all set to stamp their second successive league win as they entertain Biashara United at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Yanga comes into the game with a fresh momentum after winning their previous match against the then undefeated side Tanzania Prisons 1-0 at Samora Stadium in Iringa on Friday, the results which saw them jumping to the third slot on the table. The victory saw the Jangwani Street side reaching 21 points from ten games of which, they have won six, drew three and losing one encounter to remain ten points adrift leaders Simba SC. Biashara United are 15th on the table with 15 points from 13 games after posting four wins, three draws and six losses hence they too, need a win to bag in crucial three points. Their past league match was a 1-0 victory over Ndanda FC at Karume Stadium in Mara. Yanga’s Communication Officer, Hassan Bumbuli said yesterday that the squad was ready for the game. He insisted that almost all players are fit for the game. “We arrived back yesterday (Saturday) from Iringa and as I speak with you, the team has just completed its morning training session gearing up for the encounter,” Bumbuli said. Asked whether some new players bought by the club during the ongoing mini transfer window will be featured today, Bumbuli said the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) is yet to give them license to play for the club. “If the federation can provide the required licenses early, then we can use the players during the Biashara United match but until now, it’s a 50-50 affair,” he said. Yanga will be eager to win today to keep the momentum ahead of their crunch battle against their traditional rivals Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Ahead of the titanic clash, Yanga caretaker Coach, Charles Boniface Mkwasa fired a verbal warning to Simba, saying they are a normal side which can easily be defeated. It has been a long wait for many football fans in the country to witness the big clash but from today, only six days remains before the giants come face to face. Mkwasa said their focus after stopping Tanzania Prisons is on their Monday's home game against Biashara United and thereafter, it will be a good time to focus on Simba tie. “Let me assure Yanga fans wherever they are not to be afraid about Simba because they are just a normal team like any other club in the league and they can easily be defeated. We will do whatever necessary to win on the day,” Mkwasa said. Meanwhile, Obrey Chirwa scored the only goal in the 8th minute as Azam defeated Polisi Tanzania 1-0 yesterday at Ushirika Stadium in Moshi. In another Mainland Premier League match between JKT Tanzania and Namungo FC at Isamuhyo ground in Dar es Salaam, Namungo won 1-0.