CHILDREN in three Dar orphanage centres were in joyous celebration over the weekend after the Chinese Business Chamber in Tanzania donated various items worth 12m/-. The Deputy Director of Overseas Chinese Service Centre Mr Pan Lei said at the event that they saw it important to donate the items as part and parcel of celebrating Christmas season and New Year. “As you already know, China is among the top investors in Tanzania as such, the Chinese Community living here decided to give back to the community by cherishing with the orphans,” he said. He added that the response they got from the Chinese community was awesome and insisted that they will continue to assist as many orphans as possible as one way to make their lives easy and better. “For us, this is a very important gift to them since they (orphans) demand extra attention from the communities they live,” he said. The Director of Amani Orphanage Centre Zinga which accommodates 56 children, Ms Margareth Mwegalawa thanked the Chinese community for a timely assistance saying it will give the children something to smile during this festive season. “The donation will make these children to start early Christmas and New Year celebrations. But, we still face many challenges and hereby request the Chinese community to visit our centres to see some of the problems we face in raising them,” she said. Also, the Director of Nira Children and Youth Orphans Foundation Ms Edithrose Moyo whose facility has 30 children requested the donors to assist them in providing health insurance for the children and construct additional hostel facilities. “As of now, boys and girls sleep in the same hostel something which is not health for them,” said she. Again, the Director of Udo Digrovement Organisation, Teddy Kachwande whose facility has 38 orphans revealed that they have one child suffering from cancer whose one leg has been amputated hence they need more care to help him recover. “He failed to sit for Standard Seven final examinations because of cancer and until now, he is still not well,” she said. She also requested the Chinese community to help them with health insurance for the children saying it will help them a lot to cover their medical bills when they fall sick. The donated items include Cooking Oil, Flour, Rice and Christmas trees