EXPERIENCED goalkeeper, Juma Kaseja has been dropped from the Mainland side, Kilimanjaro Stars, which jetted off yesterday to Kampala, Uganda. Kilimanjaro Stars left in time for the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup, which is scheduled to kick off tomorrow. According to a statement released on Thursday by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Information and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, ten players have been omitted by Head Coach, Juma Mgunda from the squad including Kaseja. Initially, coach Mgunda had summoned 32 players to form a provisional squad for the annual regional tournament. However, in his final squad, Mgunda left out experienced and veteran goalkeeper, Kaseja, meaning that Simba first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula will retain his position as first choice Stars custodian. Others who have been omitted from squad are Salum Kimenya (Tanzania Prisons) Abdulimajid Mangalo (Biashara United), Yussuf Mhilu (Kagera Sugar), Salum Abubakar (Azam FC), Iddi Suleiman (Azam FC), Freddy Tangalu (Lipuli FC), Shaaban Iddi Chilunda (Azam FC), Kelvin John (Football House) and Eliud Ambokile from Congo DR giants TP Mazembe. Fully armed Stars will begin their campaign on Sunday by taking on Zanzibar Heroes in a match billed to be thrilling and entertaining. Coach Mgunda said his side is ready to face any team, which they will encounter during the tournament expected to start tomorrow. Briefing members of the media Mgunda said that they are all ready to tear apart any team which they will face, as their priority is nothing else but to bring home the title. “We are ready to compete with any team in Kampala because we want to register positive results to get the silverware. The whole technical bench is aware that we have to win the championship,” he said. In his remarks, the team’s goalkeeper Manula said as players, they know how important it is to win the title hence they will fight wholeheartedly. “It is a longtime since we clinched the trophy and now, we have another opportunity to win. So far, we have shown that we really want it (title),” said Manula, who has been re-called to feature in the national team after being sidelined for sometimes. Mainland and Zanzibar earlier pooled in group C with Kenya, Djibouti have both been moved to group B, following decision by Ethiopia to pullout of the tournament. Kilimanjaro Stars will now play against Kenya, Zanzibar Heroes and Sudan. And after taking on Kenya on Sunday, Kilimanjaro Stars will face their blood brothers Zanzibar Heroes on Tuesday, before winding up their group matches campaign against Sudan on December 14th. Kilimanjaro Stars full sq uad has goalkeepers: Aishi Manula (Simba), Metacha Mnata (Yanga SC) and David Kisu (Gor Mahia/ Kenya) Defenders: Juma Abdul (Yanga), Nickson Kibabage (Difaa Hassan El –Jadid/Morocco), Mwaita Gereza (Kagera Sugar), Kelvin Yondani (Yanga SC), Bakari Mwamnyeto (Coastal Union), Mohamed Hussein and Gardiel Michael (Simba SC). Midfielders: Zawadi Mauya (Kagera Sugar), Baraka Majogoro (Polisi Tanzania) Jonas Mkude, Muzamir Yassin and Hassan Dilunga (Simba SC), Cleophace Mkandala (Tanzania Prisons). Forwards: Paul Nonga (Lipuli FC), Miraji Athuman (Simba SC), Ditram Nchimbi (Polisi Tanzania), Eliuther Mpepo (Buildcon/ Zambia), Lucas Kikoti (Namungo FC) and Rashid Chombo from Sweden’s IK Frej Taby. The annual CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup is considered the oldest football tournament in Africa. And the council is made up of 11 members ten of whom are federations recognized by FIFA; Uganda, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti, Burundi, Somalia, Rwanda, Sudan, Tanzania and Kenya while the 11th – Zanzibar is still chasing Association status with the World governing body.