VODACOM Tanzania and WorldRemit have launched mobile money transfers to M-Pesa accounts in the country. The platform will enable nine million M-Pesa customers to receive money instantly from over 50 countries worldwide using the WorldRemit app or website. Vodacom Tanzania M-Pesa Director, Epimack Mbeteni, said the partnership with WorldRemit enables them to tap into their global payments network, and help customers receive remittances into the country from more countries around the world. “It will enable families and friends in the country to conveniently receive money through M-Pesa from across the world,” Mr Mbeteni said. Voda has an extensive footprint of over 106,000 M-Pesa agents across the country, as well as a diverse ecosystem of banks, businesses and merchants connected to M-Pesa. The new service increases convenience for money transfer recipients in urban and rural areas of Tanzania as they can receive international money transfers directly to their phones, without the need for a bank account or internet connection. WorldRemit, Country Manager for Tanzania, Cynthia Ponera, said their money transfer service to Tanzania is growing by over 100 per cent yearover- year, and mobile money turned to be most popular way to send money to the country. “Our partnership will drive down the cost of sending money to Tanzania and enable recipients in some of the most remote locations to receive money from abroad in seconds,” Ms Ponera said. Using the WorldRemit app, Tanzanians living abroad in over 50 countries, including the US, UK and Canada, can send money home 24/7 in just a few taps. WorldRemit is a global leader in international transfers to mobile money accounts and is connected to over 190 million accounts across 30 countries. According to the World Bank, migrants from Sub-Saharan Africa sent 46 billion US dollars back home last year representing a growth of 10 per cent. Also the World Bank said an average cost of sending ($155) from the UK to Tanzania is almost 9.5 per cent while WorldRemit fees for the same amount start below 2.0 per cent.