MBEYA city has become the second in Tanzania after Arusha where residents can enjoy ride sharing through the international transportation network company known as InDriver. The service which allows passengers to suggest a fare they are willing to pay in either a motor vehicle or a rickshaw and a nearby driver can accept, ignore or request for more. The service is now available in all Mbeya vicinities. According to a statement issued by the company with its headquarters in Mountain View, United States, there are over 200 drivers who have been registered in Mbeya. InDriver is a transportation network company with 35 million users in more than 300 cities in 28 countries. It is one of the top five ride-sharing and taxi apps worldwide by download. It has a unique business model in which a passenger determines the price of the trip. The user enters the amount he or she is willing to pay for the trip. The order is confirmed by the first driver who is willing to accept the offered price. Also, inDriver charges drivers primarily on a flat rate, whereas its competitors charge drivers a percentage of their taxi fare receipts. Available figures indicate that fees that inDriver takes from drivers' receipts is between 5 and 8 per cent of the fare, which is significantly less than other major ride-hailing services. “Passengers make all payments for rides directly to drivers in cash or non-cash settlements. This helps make fare for rides with inDriver even lower,” the statement stated, adding that the service can be uploaded on either Google Play Store or AppStore. The history of the company dates back to the New Year’s Eve of 2012 in Yakutsk, Eastern Siberia, where the air temperature dropped below-45 degrees, and local taxi drivers simultaneously doubled the cost of trips around the city. In response, the inhabitants of Yakutsk made the "Independent Drivers" group on social networks, where people could post a request for a ride and put the price they are willing to pay, and then drivers took such orders. As a result, in just six months more than 60,000 people joined the group. It operated in many countries globally but in Africa it has set its presence in Tanzania, South Africa, Kenya, Uganda and Nigeria.