FIVE officials at the Mineral Commission have been pulled out of the head office in Dodoma over alleged lack of progress and boycotting an exercise to verify mining licence applicants, occasioning loses of government revenues. Minister for Minerals Mr Dotto Biteko gave to the Executive Secretary of the Commission Prof Shukrani Manya, until Monday next week, to ensure that disobedient officials were relocated to Tabora Region to help formulate and monitor implementation of mining policies at regional level. Mr Biteko said he had received information that some of the officers commissioned to help verify mining licence applications had been slowing the process by demanding allowances under the ‘extra-duty’ cover. As a result, he said, the office had over 3,410 applications that were pending for verification and approvals. “It is a shame that the secretary had to outsource officials from Tabora to do the work that would have been done by officers at the head office,” the minister stated. Mr Biteko directed the officers who had previously been sourced from Tabora to replace those who had ‘forgotten’ their job descriptions. The minister made the remarks at his first meeting with the just hired new staff of the commission who will serve in various capacities in its upcountry offices. The Commission had requested for 180 new officers and at least 3,200 people applied for the job. At the meeting, yesterday the government said it had recruited 116 people who will serve various capacities in regional and district offices. Mr Biteko urged the new employees to be observant, diligent and abide by the rules and policies of the government in executing or discharging their duties. He warned that the government will not tolerate lazy and negligent officials who would jeopardize the government’s efforts to fulfill its promises to the people. The government’s target is to collect at least 470bn/- during the 2019/20 financial year from the mineral sector, and the minister says the projection is to attain at least a 500bn/- revenue collection target. Permanent Secretary in the ministry Prof Simon Msanjilla, said his ministry had signed an agreement with the Ministry of Finance and Planning to ensure the revenue collection does not go below the target. He said the government had resolved to hire more officers to consolidate its mission to supervise the mineral sector and contribute more beneficially to the country’s economic growth. The PS, however, wanted the commission to start constructing its head office at Mtumba, saying the government allocated 1.46bn/- for the purpose. Prof Manya told the minister that the commission had 431 staff. He said in the government initiative to increase revenue collection, they had received 150 point of sale machines, computers, printers and 36 vehicles.