YOUNG Africans broke Tanzania Prisons unbeaten run in the Mainland Premier League this season, following a 1-0 win at the Samora Stadium in Iringa on Friday. Rwandese attacker, Patrick Sibomana scored the solitary goal in the early minutes of the first half to bring to an end Tanzania Prisons unbeaten run. The prison warders were unbeaten in their 12 league games since the 2019/2020 season kicked off in August this year. Following the victory, Yanga moved to third place on the log after collecting 21 points from ten outings, leapfrogging Azam FC, who lost 1-0 to Coastal Union on Boxing Day. Azam drop to fourth position on 20 points, while Tanzania Prisons also on 20 points drop to fifth place. Friday’s game was initially scheduled to take place at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya but due to pathetic pitch condition after the Wasafi Concert on Christmas Day, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) moved the clash to Samora Stadium. It was a physical battle from both sets of players but Yanga, who were held to a barren draw in their previous game by Mbeya City in Mbeya, dominated most part of the first half. They put their opponents goal’s under intense pressure, no wonder they scored an early goal after just five minutes. It started from a long ball thrown by Abdulaziz Makame, which was flicked by David Molinga inside the box and landed on Sibomana’s path to easily tap into the back of the net past goalkeeper Jeremiah Kisubi. And, in the 11th minute, Yanga ought to have netted the second but Mustafa Selemani’s header from Sibomana corner kick failed to hit the target. After conceding, Tanzania Prisons tried to fight back in search for an equaliser but Yanga defenders stood firm to thwart their opponents striking force of Benjamin Asukile, Jeremiah Juma and Ismail Juma. Tanzania Prisons’ Adilu Buha long range shot in the 23rd minute was easily collected by Yanga goalkeeper Metacha Mnata. Yanga were dangerous on attacking throw in balls by Makame, who turned the specialist as in the 28th minute, another throw from him nearly produced a second but this time, Raphael Daud wasted the chance by shooting off target. Yanga came knocking again in the 37th minute, after Sibomana’s corner ball led to a goal mouth scramble but Prisons defence managed to clear their lines. In the second half, both sides made changes with Prisons introducing Jumanne Elfadhili and Cleofas Mukandala for Ezekiel Mwashilindi and Ismail Aziz respectively, whereas Mrisho Ngasa came in for Daud before Papy Tshishimbi replaced Makame. However, there was nothing worth writing in the 45 remaining minutes. Meanwhile, Young Africans Vice- Chairman, Fredrick Mwakalebela said the club tabled their complaints to the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) that referee Florentina Zablon be punished for failure to handle their game against Mbeya City. During the match played on Christmas Eve at the pathetic pitch of the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, Yanga were held to a barren draw. However, livid Mwakalebela said it was not fair results because he felt Yanga were denied victory by poor refereeing. “We have petitioned the match officials to the TPLB because they denied us a clear penalty in the second minute, when goal bound Deus Kaseke was held in the area by a defender and in the 70th minute, again, the officials denied us another penalty, after Patrick Sibomana was bundled down in the area,” complained Mwakalebela. He also said the referee and fourth official, failed to properly construe the rule number seven on 90 minutes play, especially on extra time as they only added one minute despite mammoth time wasted by Mbeya City players. Mwakalebela said they have requested the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and TPLB to impose ban on the referee and immediately close the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya for its unplayable condition. However, the TPLB has since closed the venue from hosting league matches until further notice as the pitch is unplayable. This comes after the venue hosted a free music concert on Christmas Day (December 25th) by the renowned Bongo Flava megastar Nasibu Abdul alias Diamond Platnumz and his compatriot Raymond Shaban Mwakyusa (Rayvanny), which led the playing field to be heavily packed by the revellers.