RESIDENTS of Dar es Salaam need to dig deeper into their pockets for a kilogram of meat as price accelerated ahead of year end celebrations. According to the survey conducted by Daily News, the meat price has increased three days ago. Analysts are predicting the wholesale price of meat to shoot up to over 7,000/- for a kilogram today as demand keeps swelling up despite beefing up of supply in past two days. Yesterday,the wholesale price jumped to between 6,500/-and 6,800/-from around 5,500/-a kilo at the start of the week. Vingunguti’s Traders Association of Livestock and its Products Chairman, Mr Joel Meshack said despite beefing up supply still, based on yesterday, the demand was up. “I see no reason for the prices to cross 7,000/- a kilo…despite increasing number of slaughtered cow. “The supply has improved in the last two days but failed to calm demand to affect price equilibrium,” Mr Meshack told ‘Daily News’ yesterday. He said yesterday some 680 cattle were slaughtered at Vingunguti abattoir compared to an average of 500 animals a day last week. Mr Meshack said Dar meat market is still affected by Dodoma city demand where it poises to further reduced supply thus pushing up prices to either side. The creation of Dodoma as the capital of the country, since last year, starts to spew its toll to Dar that depends on livestock supply mainly from central regions of the country. The traders, mainly from Dodoma and Singida, have found a lucrative business in Dodoma where they raise similar revenue at less costs comparing the hassle and hustle of driving cattle all way to Dar. “Dar is now competing with Dodoma and the latter is seemed to win the battle. Since there is no sense to drive cattle all the way to Dar while you have a nearby market,” Mr Meshack said. The retail price in Dar stands at between 6,000/- and 10,000/-depending on the locations—for instance the lowest is in Vingunguti, Temeke, while Boko, Mbweni and Osterbay are most expensive. The price of a 100kg grade one cow at Pugu Auction goes for between 700,000/-and 750,000/-yesterday compared to 550,000 and 650,000/-of last week while an 80kg animal fetches around 500,000/- also high by 20 per cent from last two months price.