TANZANIA envoys in the continental level football tournaments must have learnt well that nothing short of hard work, thorough planning and extra efforts play a vital towards the desired goals. Following their dismal performance in both CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup, our envoys must start now preparing squads that can make the country proud in the 2020-21 season as the pep talk is over now. There were six teams; Simba, Young Africans and KMKM who played in the CAF Championship League while Azam, KMC and Malindi represented the country in the CAF Confederation Cup, but all crashed miserably in the early stages. Simba were eliminated by UD Songo of Mozambique, Yanga made exit after 3-2 aggregate loss to Zesco while KMKM lost to Primeiro de Agosto of Angola. Others; Azam FC were eliminated by Platinum of Zimbabwe, KMC to AS Kigali of Rwanda. To avoid this season’s hoodoo, our teams ought to have had lengthy time to hone their skills for the looming events, so it is our belief that they will be up to the challenge. The new year is coming at the time when the Premier League teams are fully engaged in handpicking best players who will serve them effectively before the mini transfer window is closed down. We would like to warn the teams featuring in the Premier League this season to be serious as competitors so that they can end Simba-Yanga monopoly when it comes to the continental level events, Players in the teams should strive to demonstrate their skills at both individual and teamwork basis, since the ongoing Premier League also serves as a good market for talented players. We don’t have to think much to see what the country reaped from the 2019-2O league season, as the country’s performance in the just ended CECAFA Challenge Cup tells it all. We would again insist the player engaged in the league to work hard for their teams and themselves as we have witnessed that football pays handsomely as an entertaining source of income. We end up wishing our-to-be-envoys all the best in 2020.