A satellite based navigation system Area Navigation Procedure (RNAV) has been installed at Mpanda Airport in Katavi Region, to enhance safety and security of aircrafts. RNAV is a satellite based navigation system that enables a pilot to pinpoint a specific airport and thus land and take off more safely. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Isack Kamwele officiated at the launch yesterday, saying the development will pave the way for RNAV equipped aircrafts to operate at the airport. The completion of the procedure by Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) flight procedure designers has enabled aircrafts including ATCL owned ones to operate at the airport. The national carrier is currently operating three flights per week, from Dar es Salaam- Panda and Mpanda-Tabora- Dar es Salaam. Speaking at the event, Eng Kamwele said RNAV not only enhanced safety and security of aircrafts operating at Mpanda airports, but will also increase aircraft movements flying in and out of Katavi Region. “I believe we will have more aircraft operations which will definitely create a favorable business environment, including tourism,” he said. The minister cited tourism as among potential business sectors likely to pick up as a result of air transport, calling for Katavi residents to prepare and tap into business opportunities. He pledged that the government was determined to increase ATCL flights in different parts of Tanzania to serve and benefit more Tanzanian Similarly, he said the government was determined to ensure that the civil aviation industry was operated by local experts, including pilots, aircraft engineers and hostesses, and that was why the government was currently equipping the Kilimanjaro International Airport Hangar for maintenance of our aircrafts. He commended the TCAA director general for working hard, referring to the latest move whereby TCAA de registered 208 aerodromes that have failed to comply with aerodrome regulations, thus posing security threats. The TCAA Director General Hamza Johari, said the procedure cost the authority 25m/-and was successfully accomplished because of commitment and support from the Katavi regional authorities. The survey and data collection for RNAV procedure was collected by Katavi TANROADS surveyors, enabling TCAA to cut down production costs which would have been incurred if it had hired surveyors from private companies. The Mpanda Regional Commissioner, Mr Hamisi Homera, used the occasion to seek government consideration to introduce ATCL Mpanda-Kalimie ( DRC Congo) route due to great business potentials for both parties. Mr Homera said Kalemie Region is rich in minerals, including gold; Therefore the proposed Mpanda-Kalemie route is more likely to boost the mineral market in Katavi which has already established the mineral market. The Mpanda RC added that the move would also help to improve SADC relations since Tanzania and DRC are both SADC member states. Responding, the minister said the government was planning to introduce ATCL Mpanda-Kishasa flights as well as Mpanda-Kalemie, which is likely to be introduced in February 2020. He urged Katavi residents to tap into business opportunities which come with the introduction of air transport. Other airports with RNAV procedures are JNIA, KIA, AAKIA (Zanzibar), Mwanza, Songwe, Dodoma, Tabora, Kigoma, Bukoba, Chato and Iringa. The Authority is in the process of developing the procedures for Seronera, Mtwara, Songea, Tanga, Pemba and Mafia airports RNAV is a satellite-based navigation system that uses a version of triangulation to locate the user, through calculations involving information from a number of satellites. Each satellite transmits coded signals at precise intervals. The receiver converts signal information into position, velocity, and time estimates. Using this information, any receiver on or near the earth's surface can calculate the exact position of the transmitting satellite and the distance (from the transmission time delay) between it and the receiver. Coordinating current signal data from four or more satellites enables the receiver to determine its position.