TANZANIA is promoting peaceful use of nuclear science and technology for sustainable development in its national Development Vision 2025. Making this revelation to ‘Daily News’ on Friday, Tanzania Atomic Energy (TAEC) Head (Public Relations Unit), Peter Ngamilo said: “To achieve the target, TAEC is coming up with the first ever annual conference and exhibitions on nuclear science and technology application (AC&ENSTA) in Arusha on June 3-5, next year.” He said the country under TAEC was, therefore, moving to consolidate public and private sectors to share ideas and network on issues related to nuclear science and technology, which contributed to the country’s industrialisation process. Mr Ngamilo noted that the conference would gather researchers, academicians, innovators, entrepreneurs and inventors from public and private sectors. The list also included policy and decision makers, practitioners and professional nuclear scientists to discuss the use of nuclear science and technology for community development. He said the conference would take place at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) to set a ground that would promote nuclear science and technology skills use in various sectors of the economy. “This will strengthen networks among professionals in nuclear science and technology to utilise future opportunities as a vehicle in development. “It will enhance nuclear science and technology skills uses in health, agriculture, livestock, energy, mining, water, industries and radiation safety as well as in environmental protection. “The list also includes application in water, nutrition, food security and in other industries. At national level, it will help raise public awareness on development plans and their importance to all stakeholders,” he added. He pointed out that the conference would discuss how nuclear science and technology could help improve the welfare of humankind, where a spirit of volunteerism among the youth would be encouraged in community service. After the conference, it is expected that the government and industries will enhance development in various sectors of the economy. Emerging industrialists and entrepreneurs will contribute to government strategic initiatives in nuclear energy. The conference’s sub-themes include the nuclear and atomic energy law and regulations, radiation protection and a safety culture. Participants will also discuss nuclear safety and security, application of nuclear science and technology for social and economic development, nuclear technology in health, nuclear science and technology for pest control. Radioisotopes, energy for the future, atoms for food and nutrition, activation analysis and applications of research reactors, food irradiation and multipurpose irradiation processes, environmental radiation monitoring will be incorporated in their agenda.