PRESIDENT John Magufuli’s move to grant amnesty to 5,533 prisoners yesterday - the highest number since he assumed office four years back, demonstrates a good course in the enforcement of the laws, lawyers say. The number which is equivalent to 31 per cent of 17,547 total inmates present in the country’s prisons has surpassed all previous pardons by President Magufuli. Last year, a total of 4,477 prisoners were granted amnesty. In 2017, the President’s clemency saw 1,828 immediately released while 6,329 had their sentences reduced. A seasoned lawyer, Mr Alex Mgongolwa commenting on the President’s historic pardon told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone that the move demonstrated a good course in the enforcement of the laws of the land. Mr Mgongolwa observed that the sections which have granted such powers to the Head of State further reveal the country’s laws are functional and are not mere decorations. “To us believers of the rule of law, this is a testimony that the intent of the law is being exercised,” he stated On the other hand, Mr Jebra Kambole, a lawyer and human rights activist, was of the view that by spending a portion of sentence behind the bars one certainly repents, and it is costly for the government as it adds to prison spending. Mr Kambole applauded the President for making the decision, noting that it will save the government a considerable amount of money that would be directed in other areas of development. “Now that these people have been granted mercy and given another chance to join other members of the public, they should be given reasons as to why they have been granted the forgiveness in the first place. “As for the communities, they owe to welcome back these people and make them feel part of their lives to prevent them from falling into a worse trap than the previous one,” he urged. This could yet be the highest number of inmates granted clemency in a single day by any president in Tanzania history. President Magufuli addressing thousands of people who had gathered at CCM Kirumba in Mwanza Region to celebrate the 58 Independence Anniversary said; “Realising that no human is perfect and we all wronged somewhere but God has been forgiving us for we have repented ... I believe that many inmates have repented and are sorry for their mistakes and are ready to change.” He handed over the list to the Commissioner General of Prison Services and ordered him to make sure all inmates listed are freed as soon as possible and warned against any fool play in the exercise. The President identified inmates who have been granted clemency as those incarcerated from a day to 12 months and those who have been imprisoned for many years but have already served a large part of their sentence and are remained with less than a year. Regions with the number of prisoners who are set to walk free in brackets are; Kagera (713 inmates), Morogoro (365), Dar es Salaam (293), Mara (260), Mbeya (259), Kigoma (252), Tanga (245), Geita (230), Rukwa (214), Arusha (208), Manyara (207), Tabora (207), Mwanza (190), Ruvuma (181), Singida (139), Simiyu (136), Lindi (129), Pwani (128), Iringa (110), Songwe (96), Katavi (74), Shinyanga (74 ) and Njombe (70). Apart from the pardon granted to the prisoners, the President has also cleared 256 cases of economic sabotage, with a total of 601 suspects already released from prisons so far.