MAINLAND side, Kilimanjaro Stars Head Coach Juma Mgunda said they will not underrate Sudan in their final group stage match of the ongoing CECAFA 2019 Senior Challenge in Kampala, Uganda. The two teams meet on Saturday in group B last matches with the Mainland’s envoys having an upper advantage to progress into the nex t round of the tournament. Kilimanjaro Stars could now afford a draw against Sudan in the final group game and still march to the last four if Zanzibar Heroes fail to beat group leaders Kenya on the same day at KCCA Stadium, Lugogo. Sudan are yet to produce a win from the contest no wonder they sit at the base of the four team table with a single point garnered following a 1- 1 draw against Zanzibar Heroes in their opening game. The second match against Kenya was a disappointment for Sudan as they succumbed to a 2- 1 loss on Tuesday, meaning that any negative outcome in Saturday’s match will see them out of the competition. For Kilimanjaro Stars, it was Polisi Tanzania’s striker Ditram Nchimbi, who scored a sublime first half goal to put his side back on the track and a win on Saturday will be enough to take them to the semifinals. Dubbed ‘Family Derby,’ it was an interesting football display from the two teams with each able to launch goal scoring opportunities but as the final whistle sounded, Kilimanjaro S tars grabbed three points. Kilimanjaro Stars did come into the game on the back of a 1- 0 loss to Kenya and failing to secure three points would leave them on the brink of ex iting the tournament. Nchimbi, scorer of goal that took them to 20 2 0 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) finals against Sudan didn’t disappoint on the day as his winner lifts Kilimanjaro S tars to second in the group behind Kenya, who are already through to the semi-finals with six points after winning their first two matches. In his reaction after the match, Mgunda said they are not writing off S udan after losing against Kenya. “ I keep saying that we are in the competition as such, each team has equal chances to go to the nex t level. The fact that they lost against Kenya should not make us giants over them,” said Mgunda. On his part, the goal scorer Nchimbi labelled S udan as a side which never gives up during the match. “ We have seen them twice playing and found that they never give up hence we must approach them with caution,” he said. About the encounter against Z anzibar Heroes, Nchimbi said it was very tough since pressure was mounting on them to win at all cost. “The competition on the pitch was tough but we played as a team and were happy to fulfill our intended mission to win the battle. We must continue with the same spirit in our next matches bearing in mind that football is about teamwork,” he said. As a morale boost, Simba Chairman of the Board of Directors Mohammed Dewji pledged to offer 100 m/- plus a Motorcycle to each Kilimanjaro Stars players only if they win the title.