ONE of Tanzania’s largest taxpayer, Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) has applauded introduction of Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS) by Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for enabling smooth and undisputable computation of taxes. The Managing Director of the country’s leading brewing company, Mr Philip Redman, was equally impressed that TRA and consumers can trace the products affixed with the digital tax to ascertain whether they are genuine and have paid requisite taxes. “The electronic stamps provide a good platform to trace the quantity produced by manufacturers and the amount of tax which is supposed to be paid,” the MD said in a statement. Mr Redman explained further that the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) listed company has installed ETS management system at all its plants in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Mwanza and Mbeya as per directives by TRA. The first phase of ETS was introduced in January 15, this year, exclusively for local and imported beers, wines and spirits while the second phase was enforced on August 1, this year, covering carbonated soft drinks, juices, bottled water in addition to DVDs and CDs. “TBL started using ETS during the first phase for all its beer brands, wines and spirits and later on extended the technology for Grand Malt during the second phase,” he explained. He however complained of low production and loss of time and earnings at its plants whenever the system faces hitches, urging TRA to ensure the technology operates without interruption. “The digital stamps are also costly since we pay 46/- for each compared to 7/- which we used to pay for the paper stamps,” he lamented. The introduction of the digital stamps has been touted worldwide for curtailing cheating of taxes through under declaration as well as curbing manufacturing and importation of counterfeit products in the market. Figures availed by TRA indicate that implementation of the technology enabled it to post an increase of 34 per cent in excise duty on local and imported spirits and wines between February and October, this year. Similarly, collection of Value Added Tax (VAT) for the alcoholic drinks jumped by 30.6 per cent during the past ten months to 23.5bn/-while excise duty on carbonated drinks and bottled water surged by 8.7 per cent to 10bn/- between September and October compared to the same period last year.