YOUNG Africans sixpoint hunt mission in the Southern Highland suffered a blow yesterday after battling to a scoreless draw against a resilient Mbeya City at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. The closely-fought game was played at a waterlogged pitch, making it hard for players to produce a smooth-flowing football due to the muddy playing field. The stalemate saw Yanga reaching 18 points from nine games and their ultimate goal to snatch maximum six points in their two matches in Mbeya has since been spoiled. However, the Jangwani-based club have a chance to gain three points only if they win on Friday against Tanzania Prisons at the same venue. For Mbeya City, it was a transformed performance under the tutelage of the newly-appointed Head Coach Amri Said who would be satisfied to bag in one point in his debut match against one of the league’s bigwigs. The former Biashara United coach still has a job to drive the team out of the danger zone as they lately sit on the 18th slot of the 20-team league. Yanga started the game on front pedal and no wonder they were the first side to carve out a clear chance in the second minute as skipper Papy Tshishimbi’s header narrowly missed the target. Again, in the 6th minute, Rwandan import Patrick Sibomana had his long range effort saved by Mbeya City shot stopper Haroun Mandanda. As the first half elapsed, no side afforded to find the back of the net and went for the breather deadlocked. In the second half, both teams came up with refreshed minds, hoping to get the much needed goal but most of their attempts could not alter the digits on the scoreboard. Another good chance for the visitors to bag the opener came in the 53rd minute when Tshishimbi, who played in invitingly inside the box was robbed off the ball by City defender who quickly played the ball to safety. The hosts’ danger man during the match was Peter Mapunda who, on several occasions, asked questions to Yanga defence with his pace and long range efforts but was unlucky to beat Farouk Shikalo in the Yanga goal. It ended goalless. Meanwhile Kenya’s Premier League (KPL) side Gor Mahia striker, Gislein Yikpe reportedly passed his medical test at Yanga. According to reports from the club, the Ivorian striker, who left Gor Mahia as a result of unpaid dues underwent the medical test yesterday in Dar es Salaam. Yikpe joins Rwandan midfielder Haruna Niyonzima, Ditram Nchimbi, Adeyum Salehe and Tariq Seif Kiakala as new players to be recruited by Yanga during the mini-transfer window. Apart from Yikpe, Ghanaian striker Francis Afiriyie is also said to be on his way out of the Kenyan club. Both players were signed by Gor Mahia in the summer as replacement to Rwandese international striker Jacques Tuyisenge who left the club for Angola's Petro Atletico. Other signings for the club are yet to make their debut appearance with many Yanga fans eager to see how Haruna Niyonzima, who has re-joined his former team will cope up this time around. With the Dar es Salaam derby match just around the corner, the hype among sports fans is already up with most of them eager to see how their respective teams will perform on the day.