HUNDRED of thousands of students from various universities in the country met on Saturday at the first ever France-Tanzania higher education fair held at Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC) in search of opportunities to acquire best education. Representatives of about 10 universities from France, including IMT Atlantique, University of Bordeaux were accompanied by Campus France, an operator of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs responsible for facilitating studies in France for foreign students. Representatives from 17 Tanzanian universities also attended the fair, including University of Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Dar es Salaam University college of Education (DUCE) and Institute of Finance Management (IFM). The fair is an opportunity for the Tanzanian youth, promising them three main important aspects, including an opportunity for students to get best education from among the highest universities in France said Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology William Ole-Nasha. "This is an opportunity for students to get three important things at once. Best education in good universities, scholarship opportunities, employment opportunities, as well as interaction with French companies and identifying their employment needs." He noted that education was something the nation could not do without especially as “we strive for the middle-income economy towards 2025.” Mr Ole-Nasha pointed out that the fair was another indicator that revealed how partnership between these two countries was growing every day from the education sector to business and tourism. French Ambassador to Tanzania Fredric Clavier stressed that doors were open all the time and the fair focused on opening education opportunities. “Being the third best destination for students, France welcomed 324,000 foreign students annually. Recently, 30 students from Tanzania went to study in France under scholarships and the embassy expects to provide scholarships to 50 students,” he explained.