THE Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) yesterday announced that the 2019 Taifa Cup will be held in Simiyu region between December 27 and 31. This was disclosed by TBF president, Phares Magesa in Dar es Salaam during a press briefing, saying the four-day event will bring together both male and female teams from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. “On December 29th this tear, TBF will conduct general meeting which will also include a seminar for all Basketball leaders in the country about leadership, good governance and marketing. We will also, among other things, discuss ways on how to promote Basketball and propose some changes to our constitution,” Magesa said. He then lauded JKT Basketball team for representing the country in the recently held Basketball Africa League (BAL) in Uganda. “The BAL qualification phase attracted 16 national teams which are champions in their respective countries and for JKT to reach that far, we do not take it for granted but rather they deserve a big applause,” he said. Moreover, the TBF boss hailed Baraka Athumani for emerging the top goal scorer in the FIBA Zone V and BAL respectively saying he has brought pride to the country for his perfect performance in the two competitions. “Let me also seize this opportunity to congratulate the national U-16 girls team who also represented us well in the U-16 Afrobasket 2019 competition played in Kigali, Rwanda for their brave fight throughout the contest. To say the truth, Basketball is growing in the country,” Magesa commended. He however named other competitions coming ahead next year as Afrobasket Preliminaries set to be played in Nairobi, Kenya from January 14th to 18th which he said the country’s male team will fly high national colours. He again revealed that in April 2020, Tanzania will host FIBA Africa Zone V U-18 Boys and Girls Nations Championship in Dar es Salaam. “Due to the busy national and international schedule coming ahead, we therefore request sponsors to come forward and provide support so that our teams can compete thoroughly in the contests,” said him.