TANZANIA Bunge team has extended gratitude to President John Magufuli for his support that made it possible for the team to represent the country well at the just ended East Africa Community (EAC) Inter-Parliamentary Games. The two-week competition that brought together MPs and members of staff from hosts Parliament of Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Burundi and East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA) was held at different grounds in Kampala and Entebbe, Uganda. Rwanda and South Sudan were two missed teams at the games organised by the EALA and Uganda Parliament. Uganda President Yoweri Museveni graved the games. Tanzania team that included Deputy Speaker Tulia Ackson, former First Lady Salma Kikwete and Deputy Minister for Land, Housing and Human Settlement Development, Angelina Mabula put up a spirited performance in the 10th edition of the games. Bunge Sports Club Chairman, William Ngeleja told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ after the event that all could not be done without President Magufuli’s commitment and support towards sports in the country. “I want to take this opportunity on behalf of the team, to thank the President for allowing us to compete at this event, my regards also goes to Speaker Job Ndugai, we could not have this success without their support,” he said. However, Ngeleja insisted that Bunge team need more funds to be able to compete at high level in the future events. “We still need support; we have competed in difficult situation because in most cases teams we field in different sports discipline were not complete. We would like to appeal to the government to inject more money to support the team so that we can have full squad at each game and win more medals,” he said. Tanzania which is one of the top teams at the event had only 83 members compared to their rivals Kenya, who traveled with about 257 members according to Ngeleja. “We always travel with incomplete team… netball for example had only one reserve, basketball had four players and you always have to look elsewhere to complete the squad. “Only two golfers traveled out of needed four and this made it difficult for us to compete, we had to overwork our slim squad to the maximum,” he added. Ngeleja, who was recognised as one of the long serving member of the event after he attended all ten editions, added that sports and the competition at large are very important in all means of building a better and peaceful society. “Competitions like this are so important for integration of EAC region, widening cooperation, strengthening unity as people who have one destination. Sports are also important in stabilising and managing political tensions,” pointed out Ngeleja. Ugandan netball captain Winnie Kiiza echoed Ngeleja’s sentiments, saying EAC member states have to sports more attention for the well-being of the people in the region. Kiiza added that sports are very expensive so member states have to budget for it as it is one of important aspects in strengthening unity. “It is important to engage in sports for among others recreation, improving health, create friendship and to enable us to integrate, so we need enough budgetary allocations in the department of sports in all EAC member states,” she said. The IPG that was mooted 10 years ago has over the years realized several successes. Fundamentally, Parliamentary games are a key aspect of building relations between the EALA and the National Legislatures in the EAC region. The games play a fundamental part in enabling EALA’s interaction with Members of the National Legislatures in the Partner States as envisaged in Article 49 (2a) of the Treaty for the Establishment of EAC. The tournament disciplines include football (St Mary’s Kitende and KCCA Grounds), walk-race, netball (MTN Arena Lugogo), golf (Kigo Serena Golf Course), athletics (Namboole Stadium), tug-of-war (Namboole) and volleyball (MTN Arena Lugogo). Athletics featured races in 100 meters, 200 meters, 400 metres, 800 and 1500 metres respectively for men and women. The 4x 400m relay and the 4x 100m races were also on the cards. The Games themed ‘The EAC: One Spirit; One Destiny: Strengthening Integration through 10 Years of Inter- Parliamentary Games’ brought together EALA and the National Legislatures.