THE People’s Republic of China is currently finalising legal procedures to transform the fast-expanding National Institute of Transport (NIT) into a full-fledged transport university. The NIT governing council has, therefore, been charged with the task of implementing guidelines needed by the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) to build infrastructure conducive for the institute’s transformation. Tanzania, which has maintained stronger diplomatic and bilateral relations with China since the early 1960s, has won support from the emerging global economic powerhouse to help the country improve its aviation and transport sectors. This week, Works, Transport and Communications minister Isack Kamwelwe met the NIT governing council in Dar es Salaam and directed it to hasten procedures wanted by TCU to turn the institute into a university. NIT, which is charged with the provision of facilities for the study and training in the principles, procedures and techniques of transport operations, among others, is one of five universities of transport in Africa that the Chinese government has earmarked to build on the continent boasting of 1.1 billion people. Chinese President Xi Jinping said during his speech he delivered at the opening ceremony of the Johannesburg Summit of the Forum on China- Africa Cooperation held in South Africa from December 4 to 5 in 2015 that his government would build five transport universities in Africa to help the continent realise its dream of a vibrant transport sector. The Johannesburg Summit discussed the theme of “China-Africa Progressing Together: Win-Win Cooperation for Common Development” to consolidate solidarity and cooperation among the peoples of China and Africa. Both African countries and China are developing countries facing common challenges of development and sharing broad common interests in a world that is undergoing and will continue to undergo profound and complex changes. Tanzania has received a loan of US$ 75 million to establish four centres of excellence in a move directed at preparing a dynamic workforce that will help the nation in its development initiatives, according to Minister Kamwelwe. One of these four centres of excellence will be established at the NIT mainly to cater for aviation and transport operations, the minister told members of the institute’s governing council. This project, he said, would cost US$21.25 million. Establishment of NIT’s centre of excellence in aviation and transport operations will include the construction of various infrastructures in Da es Salaam and at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), the purchase of training equipment for pilots, aircraft engineers, and cabin crew students. “I want to see this NIT centre of excellence achieve its goals,” Kamwelwe told the Governing Council under the chairmanship of Prof Blasius Bavo Nyichomba. NIT has also received financial support from the African Development Bank (AfDB) to establish a regional centre of excellence in road safety that trains professional drivers. The centre is scheduled to training vehicle inspectors, commercial drivers to professional level as well as examiners of drivers. “I am also taking this opportunity to strong congratulate the chairman of the governing council and the NIT Rector. This is truly a sign that President Dr John Magufuli has great confidence in your work performance,” Kamwelwe said during his meeting with members of the NIT governing council. NIT Rector Eng. Zacharia Mganilwa said that the institute has already started implementing some projects to attain the target of becoming the centre of excellence in Africa. Some of these ongoing projects include establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Aviation and Transport Operations and the establishment of Regional Centre of Excellence in Road Safety. Other projects are the expansion of the Lindi Campus (115 acres), maritime studies and petroleum technology, KIA Campus– aviation training (60 acres). The institute is also striving to acquire 800 acres of land in Dodoma City. “NIT recognizes the need to enhance technical and managerial capacity to man the transport sector as well as to cope with changes in science and technology,” Prof Mganilwa explained. “As a higher-learning institution NIT is taking deliberate measures to ensure availability and sustainability of local technical and managerial capacity through developing and reviewing training programmes that meet the needs of the transport sector.” A vibrant aviation and transport sector requires personnel in the form of shipping engineers, pilots, aircraft maintenance engineers, maritime engineers, aerospace engineers and offshore engineers. Other personnel needed in the twin sectors also includes mechanical engineers, automobile engineers, safety engineers, railway signalling and telecommunication engineers, managers and station masters, foremen, technicians, artisans and other relevant professionals in all modes of transport. The multi-dimensional bouquet of programmes offered at NIT caters to all aspects of logistics, management and transport technology in the context of today’s environment. The programmes are focused around the national goals which are stipulated in the 2025 Tanzania Development Vision and the second National Five-Year Development Plan. Through the years, NIT has lived the vision of creating thought leaders and change masters. The institute has been imparting knowledge and training as it has grown and evolved into a prestigious transport entity. Its focus on delivering quality education and creating a culture of learning has led it to being consistently named among the best institute in the country.