THE Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), has lost its bid to stop the execution of the High Court judgment requiring them to pay citizens over 150m/- as compensation for their respective land that was acquired for development activities. This followed the decision of Justices Batuel Mmilla, Barke Sahel and Lugano Mwandambo to dismiss the application by TPDC, seeking for orders to temporality halt the implementation of the impugned judgment and decree of the trial High Court pending the hearing and determination of that appeal. They noted that TPDC, the applicant failed to meet all three conditions cumulatively which are taken into consideration before granting the order for stay as per Rule 11 (5) (a), (b) and (c) of the Court of Appeal Rules. “(Since) the applicant has not made any undertaking, leave alone a firm undertaking, and since the three conditions ought to be fulfilled cumulatively, the application fails and is hereby dismissed. Order accordingly,” the justices declared. They re-emphasized that prior to the 2019 amendments to the Rules, in order for the Court to grant an application for stay of execution, a party seeking such an order was required to comply with the demands of Rule 11 (5) (a), (b) and (c) of the Rules. According to the justices, there is currently a slight change since only two conditions are remaining after the 2019 amendments to the Rules, whereof clause (b) of Rule 11 (5) has been done away with. By 2018 when this application was filed, Rule 11 (5) (a), (b) and (c) of the Rules provided that no order for stay of execution shall be made under this rule unless the Court is satisfied that a substantial loss may result to the party applying for stay of execution unless the order is made. Other conditions include the application being made without unreasonable delay; and security has been given by the applicant for due performance of such decree or order as may ultimately be binding upon him. “As is the case, these conditions had to be complied with cumulatively, which necessarily meant that where one of them could have not been satisfied, the Court would decline to grant the order,” the justices said. They pointed out that having gone through the affidavit in support of the application, only two conditions were met in relation to the loss and filing the application without reasonable delay. However, they said, the third condition on provision of security for the due performance of decree was not met. The applicant, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), was sued in the High Court of Tanzania at Mtwara by Mussa Yusufu Namwao and 37 others in Land Case No. 12 of 2015 for a number of reliefs. They included a declaratory order that the compensation they received regarding their respective pieces of land which were taken by the applicant was unfair and illegal, and requested the court to compel the applicant to pay them a total of 229,208, 727/-on top of what they were paid as a group. Likewise, the citizens asked for special and general damages to the tune of 65m/-and 110/-respectively. At the end of the trial, the High Court awarded a total of 146,291,476/-to 24 of the 38 citizens, who were listed down, an amount which attracted some interests. That decision aggrieved the applicant who resolved to appeal. They filed a Notice of Appeal and applied for the necessary documents to enable them to appeal. During the pendency of their appeal, however, on August 3, 2018, the citizen served the applicant with a notice to show cause why execution could not be carried out. Such notice triggered the applicants to file the application in question.