REVENUE at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) doubled in the last six years, thanks to increase number of planes and passengers. The revenue doubled from 13bn/- to 26bn/- in last six years as more cargo planes are landing at the airport to ship horticulture products. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Isaac Kamwelwe, hailed the Kilimanjaro Airports Development Company (KADCO) that runs the airport at satisfactory standards. Launching a new KADCO Board of Directors under Chairman Gregory Teu, the minister said the board that completed its threeyear term under Mr Teu improved a lot the airport’s infrastructure, leading to increased number of planes, passengers and income. “Revenue keep increasing year in year out at a pleasing rate in the last six years…but as per the targets we have set as a country for our development we need more increase on that line so that we also contribute to the government coffer; you will have to work on that,” said Mr Kamwelwe. He said that in accordance to the set targets as a country, the work that lies ahead of the board includes construction of the muchneeded infrastructure such as cold-rooms so that cargo planes on international routes start using the airport. The board and management should see to it soon that KIA receives cargo planes and the routes are sustainable. He said that huge challenges have been lacking cargo planes that use KIA; attributing it partly to lack of availability of cargos themselves that would make profit to operators, hence stakeholders should be involved. He expressed his satisfaction on plans that are underway to initiate Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects namely construction of a five-star hotel, business complex park; construction of the National Institute of Transport (NIT) campus and general aviation /VIP Terminal. “It is your responsibility to see that all these projects are completed for the national broad interests. “The previous board did well to ensure staffs were professionally equipped, ensured of good working conditions and that we did not hear of any disputes among workers. We want this airport to be exemplary in our country,” the minister said. KADCO is not depending on subvention from the government but has come up with Common User Terminal Emulation (CUTE) system; preparation of the KIA Master Plan in developing KIA area, putting in place new CCTV state-of-the-art system as well as paying 1.0bn/- dividend to the government in 2018/19.