IT is red and white on command at the Christmas Day that coincidentally matches with Simba, who superbly command the league table with glittering record. Simba have so far hauled 25 points from 10-match outings. They have won eight matches, drew and lost once. However, the Msimbazi- based club have an advantage to extend their lead if they manage to beat Lipuli FC at Uhuru Stadium today. It will be a debut league match for Simba’s new Head Coach, Sven Vandenbroeck who took over coaching responsibilities after the sacking of his Belgian compatriot, Patrick Aussems. Vandenbroek enjoyed a perfect start to his reign as he witnessed his side hammering Arusha FC 6-0 on Sunday in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). But, Lipuli FC are not a team to be written off going into today’s game since they have scored an equal number of goals (19) like Simba even though they sit 7th on the log with 18 points from 12 matches. As depicted through the leagues table (minus late yesterday’s fixture), Simba boast the most effective striking force that have netted 19 goals from ten matches, making an average of 1.9 goals per match. Towards today’s Christmas, Meddie Kagere-Miraji Athumani partnership is the deadliest of all until this stage. Despite losing once, Simba’s defence is seen water-tight after conceding only three goals. They march gallantly into the Festive Season with +16 goal average, which is the highest in the 20-team league. A point inferior to top riders Simba are Kagera Sugar who have fetched 24 points after playing 13 matches. League standing, however, doesn’t give Kagera a brilliant mark apart from superior point gain. The 17 goals netted by the Sugar planters make their forward line, among the lethal ones, but conceding 12 goals slightly dampens the team’s brilliant run. Though placed third on log with 20 points, Azam FC are not pushovers. They are the second side after Simba to post a superior goal average. Azam, who have played 10 matches like Simba, have +9 goal average having netted 15 times and conceded 6 goals. Tanzania Prisons, the team that narrowly escaped relegation last season, likely to celebrate Christmas unbeaten. The team, despite being placed 4th, are the only side that boasts the highest number of draws. Prisons, who have carved 20 points, have won four matches and drew eight times. The second team in wrapping draws is Shinyangabased Mwadui FC. They have drawn six times while they have won only three matches to remain at 14th position. Though placed 8th with 18 points, Lipuli FC equal Simba in having well-polished striking force. Like Simba, Lipuli have netted 19 times, but having allowed 13 goals behind their net, slight heaps blames the defence line. Young Africans, one of the league giants are still on the run with 17 points despite playing eight matches. The Jangwani Street side managed to score 12 goal, but with inferior +4 after conceding eight goals, makes them concede a goal in every match.