THE prosecution and defence yesterday locked horns on whether a video CD, allegedly showing ACT Wazalendo leader Zitto Kabwe giving a false report linking the police force with killing 100 people in Kigoma Region, should be admitted in evidence or not. While the prosecution, led by Principal State Attorney Tumaini Kweka as well as Senior State Attorney Nassoro Katuga, argued before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam that the CD was admissible, Advocate Jebra Kambole, for Zitto, submitted to the contrary. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi, who is conducting the sedition trial of the leader of the opposition party, said he would deliver the ruling on the contentious issue today after going through submissions from both parties. It all started when Detective Sergeant James was called in to testify as the 14th prosecution witness, narrating that on October 29, 2018, he received a letter from the Kinondoni Regional Crime Officer (RCO), directing him to conduct his investigations on the CD, to establish if it contained original pictures or not. Sergeant James, who works in the photo section of the police headquarters’ Forensic Bureau Department, told the court that after conducting an analysis, he concluded that the pictures in the CD were genuine and indicated so in a special document. The witness requested the court to admit the CD as part of his evidence. It was at that point that the defence counsel objected to the prayer, submitting that the CD was electronic evidence, as per Section 18 of the Electronic Transaction Act. He submitted that the Act provides some admissibility conditions, which had not been met. The advocates further argued that the witness was incompetent to tender the CD in evidence as he was not the one who recorded it and not indicated whether it was recorded in the course of his business. Furthermore, the defence lawyer told the court that the witness has failed to provide explanations on the authenticity of electronic recording system and that there was no evidence showing that the recording machine was working properly. The prosecution, however, hit back, forcefully submitting that the CD in question was admissible, as per Section 64A of the Law of Evidence Act, as amended. The State lawyers argued that before admitting such evidence, the court was required to look into competence, materially and relevance. They submitted that any person could tender the document when it passed into one’s hands and that the defence should not misconstrue the provision of Section 18 of the Electronic Transaction Act , which speaks about weight of evidence, as what was being considered was authenticity of electronic evidence. According to them, what was used to record the CD was a matter that concerned weight of such evidence and that the question of authenticity, which was to be considered in electronic evidence, was very crucial in the admissibility of such kind of evidence. It is alleged by the prosecution that on October 28, 2018, while at a press conference at ACT Wazalendo Head Office in Dar es Salaam City, Zitto gave seditious statements likely to promote ill will among members of the society. The prosecution charges Zitto of sedition for saying that people who were injured during confrontation with the police went to Nguruka Health Centre in Kigoma for treatment but the police received reports that four people had gone to the hospital… they followed them there and killed them. He also said, “We have been following up what is happening in Uvinza ... we are sorry to say that the information we get is frightening. …we are told more than 100 members of Wanyantuzu tribe have lost their lives by being shot by police, and others are said to have been killed while receiving treatment in hospital