TANZANIA Football Federation (TFF) President Wallace Karia has promised to serve the Council of East and Central African Football Associations (CECAFA) diligently, honestly, transparently while observing the tenets of its constitution. Karia made the promise at Silver Springs Hotel in Kampala Uganda in his speech to thank members for electing him the new CECAFA President, an organisation he will serve for a four-year term. He said in his speech that during his tenure he will respect all its members, officials those contributing immensely to the game of football in the CECAFA region. “I take this opportunity to thank our hosts the Federation of Uganda Football Associations (FUFA) and the CECAFA Secretariat led by Mr. Nicholas Musonye for organising the General Assembly today. I humble myself before you and thank all of you for entrusting me with the top leadership of CECAFA as President for the next four years." He also thanked the outgoing CECAFA President Dr. Mutasim Gafar for holding the organisation together and serving it with devotion and dedication in all four years. “We shall still need your words of wisdom and we shall not hesitate to consult and tap into your experience to guide us in running the administration of CECAFA. I promise to ensure that you remain one of the pillars of CECAFA that we shall count on as we start our new journey today.” He asked the members to be with him in the next journey of transformation in the CECAFA. “I would like to ask all of you to be aware that servant leadership is a calling that entails sacrifice and commitment,” he stressed. He said as they move into another era, they shall have to re-look into the programmes and be very strategic in which competitions to put emphasis in order to develop the region. He said the main challenge facing CECAFA today is lack of resources to run our football events and activities. “We need to put a plan in place so that we attract more sponsors and partners to enable us run our activities without constraints,” he said.