THE Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children yesterday allayed fears on the possibility of the spread of a new pandemic influenza virus in the country. According to a statement released to the media on Friday, the ministry has conducted a survey and established that there is an increase of flu victims and that the viruses are too powerful for some people. It said that the problem was at an alarming rate compared to the same period last year. Pandemic influenza is an epidemic of an influenza virus that spreads on a worldwide scale and infects a large proportion of the world population in contrast to the regular seasonal epidemics of influenza. However, the ministry assured the public that there had been no mutation of the influenza virus and thus no serious pandemic influenza. “There is an increase in the number of flu-related pa tients who suffer from fever, headaches and fatigue in the country but we have established that the viruses are not new as they have been in the country causing flu and other airborne diseases such as pneumonia during the same season, but this year there has been an increase compared to last year,” reads part of the statement. The clarification comes a few days after people in various parts of the country reported flu outbreaks and requested the authorities to clarify if it was a new virus or not. The ministry has been conducting a series of influenza- related surveys in the country aiming at identifying viral mutations since 2008 at nine hospitals, namely referral hospitals of Mwananyamala (Dar es Salaam), Sekou Toure (Mwanza), Dodoma, Mount Meru (Arusha), district hospitals for Meru and Kibondo, Haydom Mission hospital (Mbulu), St.Benedict’s (Ndanda – Mtwara) and International School of Tanganyika clinic (Dar es Salaam). In the survey within the hospitals, the samples are taken from patients with similar flu symptoms and taken for testing at the national laboratory in Dar es Salaam that is capable of testing blood samples and identifying various viruses that cause airborne diseases, including influenza. “The study revealed that the virus that causes influenza is present in the country and has been causing flu regularly and in different seasons,” it reads in part. Symptoms of the disease are not very different from other flu but they vary in severity which includes high fever, fatigue, headache, runny nose, cough, sore throat and sneezing. Besides, others experience symptoms of diarrhoea and vomiting. Also, symptoms of the disease usually take between three to seven days to disappear, but for some, it may take up to 14 days. On treatment, usually one will need nothing more than bed rest and plenty of fluids. The ministry has warned against the use of antibiotics for the treatment of influenza, recommending the use of pain relievers instead.