MORE than 200 patients, supposed to be referred to overseas hospitals, have been treated in the country at the Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI), thanks to newly installed cancer treatment equipment. The equipment, medical linear accelerators (LINAC) worth 9.bn/-, started operating in September last year. According to RadiologyInfo.org, a LINAC “customises high energy x-rays or electrons to conform to a tumour’s shape and destroy cancer cells while sparing surrounding normal tissues. It features several built-in safety measures to ensure it will deliver the dose as prescribed.” Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Monday, ORCI Executive Director, Dr Julius Mwaiselage, said if the patients had been referred to India, the government would have paid between 50m/- and 70m/-per each patient. Thus, the government has saved between 10bn/-and 14bn/-it would have spent on their overseas treatment. Dr Mwaiselage further said ORCI had referred only 14 cancer patients to overseas hospitals this year, while in 2015 it had referred 164 cancer patients. This is a big improvement in cancer treatment due to the fact that last year Tanzania had 42,060 cancer patients while 28,610 patients die of cancer every year, according to a report by the International Agency for Research (IARC) issued last year. The capacity of ORCI has also increased from attending to 180-300 patients per day due to increased budget allocation. The budget for anticancer drugs also shot up from 790m/-in 2015 to 10bn/-this fiscal year, which has increased the availability of cancer drugs by 95 per cent from 4 per cent in 2015t. So, longterm prospects for cancer patients look bright given the general improvement in cancer treatment at ORCI. According to GLOBOCAN 2018 database, the global cancer burden is estimated to have risen to 18.1 million new cases and 9.6 million deaths in 2018. That is one in five men and one in six women worldwide develop cancer during their lifetime and one in eight men and one in 11 women die from the disease. Globally, the number of people who are alive within five years of a cancer diagnosis, called the 5-year prevalence, is estimated to be 43.8 million. So, cancer is a real threat to each one of us and since the government has taken steps to improve cancer detection and treatment in the country Tanzanians are assured of improving their quality of life. What we still need though is to go for a regular medical checkup to know our health status and avoid lifestyles that make us highly susceptible to cancer. So, we need more public awareness on cancer prevention and treatment.