LOCAL engineers have been advised to form joint ventures so as to have big companies that will be competitive in winning tenders as the government considers awarding locals with ones worth at least 15bn/-to start with. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Isaac Kamwelwe, told the Institution of Engineers Tanzania (IET) 30th conference that small engineering companies were unable to compete with huge foreign ones that bid for tenders in many projects the government was implementing. He said it was not feasible for the government to deal with small companies as that would not lead to productivity, instead local engineers should join forces and form big companies that would create confidence among clients, including the government hence award them tenders for big projects. Engineers should therefore be proactive in tackling challenges they are facing, that include lack of confidence, unemployment among graduate engineers, very high qualifications that leads to local companies being excluded in foreign funded projects, foreign engineers being hired as chief engineers in big projects hence sidelining local engineers’ growth and sustainability. Engineer Kamwelwe said IET should lead the engineers in the right path so that they benefit from the big projects that are underway or in the pipeline, hence the fruits of the government’s efforts to attain middle income status, with a lot of industries being put up. He said much of the money was from taxpayers; hence it is good that it goes back to local engineers. The minister said the government banked on engineers in floating ideas about putting in place infrastructure for industries, transportation, installing factory machineries, producing and supplying power to the said industrial sites. He said it was the government’s intention to see that most activities were undertaken by local engineers, along with their brothers and sisters from the East African Community (EAC) partner states. He noted that IRT was an old institution, initiated since 1977, but sadly, it had only 4,401 members out of 25,000 registered engineers by the Engineer Registration Board (ERB). He called upon all engineers to note that becoming members in the professional institutions was a professional responsibility. IET President, Advocate Menye Manga asked the government to ensure that it had, in its district, municipal and town councils, qualified engineers that are registered by ERB as a means to safeguard the profession. He said that currently, many who worked in those councils and other areas lacked the standard qualifications. He thanked the minister for his promise to offer tenders of at least 15bn/-to local companies as a means to empower them, saying that shows how much the government valued them. The president called upon all engineers to get registered with the ERB. IET is an engineering society designed to spearhead the interests of the technical cadre and the country for the purpose of spearheading sustainable, ethical and all-encompassing engineering development.