TANZANIA Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) has unveiled a big plan aiming to make golf advance further at the national level, international and ladies club competitions in 2020. Sophia Viggo, the TLGU president, told the ‘Daily News’ this week that they are geared up to make the 2020 the best, starting with a preparation of a strong team that will challenge the rest of Africa in the All Africa Ladies Golf Challenge Trophy (AACT) in a competition to be held in Namibia. The AACT is organised by Namibia Amateur Ladies Golf Union (NALGU) and is scheduled to be held at Rossmund Golf Club situated at the Swakopmund coast from March 29th to April 3rd, 2020. Viggo stressed that Tanzania will head for the competition as East and Central All Africa Challenge Trophy Champion,the title they won in Kampala, Uganda in October this year and they want to represent well the region too. “We have talented golfers who need maximum support to showcase their skills in the continental level tournament. It is our job to help them perform at that level,” she said. Viggo noted that they have a plan for an early preparation that includes the national team tours at different golf clubs with an aim to raise fund. Tanzania had best individual player champion Madina Iddi who won the title at the AACT competition in Accra, Ghana in 2018, the event that Tanzania finished second behind historic Champions South Africa at the team level. “To beat a South African means a lot for Madina and national team, we have other outstanding players in the team like Angel Eaton and Hawa Wanyeche with vast experience and talent capable of bringing the African title. They only need support,” she added. South Africans have always been victors other than Egypt in 2006 of the team event, though the individual trophy has been won by Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, Egypt, Ivory Coast (after a play-off with Uganda) and Tanzanian Madina stunned others at Ghana event. Medina also took the ECAACT individual trophy in Kampala when she helped the team to lift the third title. Viggo also added that after the union's constitution was officially registered by National Sports Registrar this month, they have now one mission and that is to work hard. “I appeal all TLGU members to works together as a team while adhering to the constitution as well,” she said. She added that all member clubs should select alternative dates and months to organised their open golf tournaments as TLGU has already set September next year as the date of Tanzania Ladies Open.