INSUFFICIENT power supply may slow down the development of industries in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the projected industrial development as per SADC industrialisation strategy and road map of 2015 to 2063. The strategy, approved in April 2015 by the Extra- Ordinary Summit in Harare, Zimbabwe, among other things, stresses the importance of technological and economic transformation of the SADC region through industrialisation, modernisation, skills development, science and technology and financial strengthening. It further mentions a serious energy deficit the region faces that may affect the region’s plan to have a prosperous industrial economy as it was much stressed in the theme of the 39th SADC Ordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government held in Dar es Salaam in August 2019. By emphasizing on the need of the Member States to practically implement the industrial agenda, it’s better for each member state to have regular reflection on the theme “A Conducive Environment for Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development, Increased Intra- Regional Trade and Job Creation.” Since industrial development stands as a key player in the theme which can act as a catalyst to increased intra-regional trade due to the availability of goods and services produced from industries and diversified working opportunities due to job creation. Similarly sustainable power production and supply become the paramount factor in achieving industrialised economy. Putting clear the energy statistics in the region, the Director of Infrastructure of SADC Secretariat, Mapolao Makoena, says that the current peak demand of electricity for mainland Member States is 50,266 MW, while the peak demand of electricity with reserves for the same states is 57,836. Mapolao further discloses that the current operating capacity of power for mainland Member States in the region is 59,055MW while the installed capacity is 70,651MW. For Oceanic Member States according to her, the installed capacity is Shortage of power may hold up SADC industrialisation agenda 1,134MW, which is 782MW for Mauritius, 246MW for Madagascar and 106MW for Seychelles. “The current deficit of power will slow down the development of industries in the SADC region and slow down the projected industrial development as per SADC industrialisation strategy and road map (2015 t0 2063); Our plan is to have the operating capacity exceed peak demand and reserves by 2025 and to have excess power for stable industrialisation growth by 2050,” she says. Since the major sources of power in the SADC region includes Coal for 62 percent, Hydro (21 percent), Wind (4 percent), Solar (4 percent), Distillate (4 percent), Nuclear (3 percent) and gas 1 percent, the Infrastructure Director has said that electricity generation from wind and gas is projected to be around 10 percent and 19 percent respectively by 2022. As funding issue remains a necessary requirement to the region, She says the funding of such power generation projects is mainly range from governments through loans to private sector financing through Public-Private Sector Partnership (PPPs), and the challenges facing Member States financing for project preparation and project implementation due to low tariffs to attract private sector participation. SADC Chairman cum the President of Tanzania, Dr John Magufuli, told the summit members in Dar es Salaam in last August that the manufacturing sector is instrumental for economic reforms in the SADC region and Africa in general, as it could help in the fight against poverty, reduce unemployment and bring prosperity as it was done in the United States, Japan, United Kingdom, Germany, France and other such countries. Magufuli said in the 1960s and 1970s, Asian economies including China, India, South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam were similar to the economies of many African countries, but those countries decided to take specific steps to bring about industrial reform and that is why they have reached the destination where they are, so SADC countries and all Africa must realise that there is no shortcut to economic reforms without embracing industrial economy. “The contribution of the industrial sector to Africa’s GDP is only 10 percent and for the SADC Community countries is 11 percent, while the contribution of industrial goods to the African economy is less than 3 percent according to the statistics of the African Development Bank (AfDB), but due to the lack of industrialized economy, African countries have remained poor and have remained a major producer of raw materials for foreign industries abroad, “says President Magufuli. Given the important role of power in industrial development, the government of Tanzania has decided to build its giant Julius Nyerere Hydro-Power Project in Rufiji River in the Coast Region. The project’s capacity is to produce 2,115MW compared to over 1,500MW currently. Such projects are essential for industrial reformation in the SADC. When signing a contract in December 2018 at the State House in Dar es Salaam for the construction of hydropower project in Rufiji, Tanzania’s Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani said Tanzania’s goal is to produce 5,000MW by 2020 and 10,000MW by 2025. However, the SADC Industrialisation Strategy of 2015-2063, clearly states that the region faces a serious energy deficit and with the implementation of the industrialisation strategy, the gap will widen unless the supply of electricity is greatly increased. The strategy, among other things, emphasis that Member States have to increase public investment in energy provision both for domestic use and export to regional partners and the region should adopt energy efficient technologies to reduce the cost of production because cheap energy is a necessary condition for industrial competitiveness.