THREE people, all Burundi citizens, died due to suffocation in a pit mine in Ngara District, the Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC), Revocatus Malimi has said. He identified the deceased as Sinamisi Gerald (19), Minani Ramadhan (47) and Muharabazi Severin (50). He explained that the accident occurred at around 7.p.m. on December 17, this year in Kihinga village, some four kilometres from the Tanzania- Burundi border. “Initial investigations have established that the miners had earlier contacted a medicine man who gave them some herbs with instructions to burn them once they were inside the pit and that is what they did. Apparently, due to smoke inside the 30-metre deep mine pit, the miners ran short of oxygen and two of them suffocated while two others managed to walk out unhurt. Once outside, one of the miners escaped but another (Severin) reported the incident to Kihinga village leaders. The following day, the leaders visited the scene of the accident where Severin volunteered and entered the pit and pulled out a body. After a few minutes, went inside the pit again but unfortunately also suffocated and died,” he said. RPC Malimi said the District Defence and Security Committee visited the scene accompanied by a team from the Fire and Rescue Department who pulled out the bodies. Mr Malimi refuted earlier reports by a section of media outlets which attributed the miners’ deaths to an explosion. In a separate incident, two people, including a ten-year old boy, drowned in Lake Victoria while fishing. Mr Malimi named them as Christian Paul (29) and Robson Juvenal (10) a Standard three pupil at Kiga Primary School in Muleba District. He said the accident happened on December 15, this year when strong winds caused their canoe to capsize. The bodies had already been recovered and handed to their relatives for burial. The RPC urged fishermen to follow instructions issued by the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA), especially during this time of heavy rain and strong winds.