THE CCM’s National Executive Council (NEC) has ordered three party cadres, former Secretaries General Yusuf Makamba and Abdulrahman Kinana as well as former Cabinet Minister Bernard Membe to appear before the party’s disciplinary committee. According to a statement released by the ruling party on Friday, the three former leaders who are facing ethical conduct accusations, are supposed to appeal before the committee to answer disciplinary charges against them. The statement says the cadres are directed to respond to charges in accordance to the party’s constitution and leadership regulations. The decision to summon the retired CCM leaders was reached by the party’s National Executive Committee which sat in Mwanza yesterday under the chairmanship of President John Magufuli. NEC also endorsed the decision by President Magufuli, who is also CCM National Chairman, to pardon three other party members - Mr January Makamba, Mr William Ngeleja and Mr Nape Nnauye, who were also accused of acting against the party’s regulations. The three were given a stern warning. In July this year, Mr Kinana and Mr Makamba released a statement accusing Mr Musiba of tarnishing their names and image before the public. They alleged that Mr Cyprian Musiba, who runs Tanzanite newspaper, was being used by some people who are well placed in the government to tarnish other people’s images. They said in their statement that they were not contemplating taking the matter to court, but decided, instead, to write the letter to the ‘committee for former leaders’ which is chaired by former President Ali Hassan Mwinyi. According to the two former senior party bosses, the matter was more of a political nature and believed Mr Musiba was being used against them. “We know it is a political move against us, therefore, we request the committee to go through our complaints”, they said in the statement. A few days later, however, recorded phone calls believed to be made by the former Party leaders to former cabinet Ministers January Makamba, Nape Nnauye and William Ngeleja went viral. According to the calls, the accused leaders were making a follow up on what was also analysed by political analysts as misconduct against the party’s national chairman. A few months later, Mr Nape and January Makamba sought President Magufuli’s forgiveness over the recorded calls. Embattled Mr Kinana stepped down last year having served as Secretary-General of the ruling party since 2012. “We must agree that there is time to rest and time to work,” he said when announcing his decision to stand down during a NEC meeting. His decision to quit the CCM hot seat was received with mixed feelings. The announcement came barely two years after Dr Magufuli had rejected Kinana’s initial request to retire. Dr Magufuli once again expressed his desire to continue working with Mr Kinana. He revealed that Mr Kinana had brought up the subject several times before and this time he had granted his Secretary General’s wish. Mr Membe, meanwhile, has apparently been at loggerheads with his party since the fifth phase government came into power. Reports of his alleged underground movements against the current regime at one point compelled CCM secretary general, Dr Bashiru Ally, to publicly summon the ex-Foreign Affairs minister to his office. Mr Bashiru wanted to speak to Mr Membe about a reported plot to challenge President John Magufuli in the 2020 General Election.