TANZANIANS peacefully celebrated Christmas Day with intensified patrols staged across the country cited as a major reason for the serene atmosphere. As of on Wednesday evening, a spot-check by the ‘Daily News’ in the country’s commercial city Dar es Salaam as well as other regions namely; Tabora, Zanzibar, Dodoma and Arusha showed that Christmas celebrations were going peacefully. Exclusive interviews with regional police commanders over the phone similarly established that Tanzanians were all out to mark the important religious event but attached great importance to peace. The police said even as Tanzanians enter the second day of celebration today --Boxing Day, the force was prepared to maintain the prevailing peace. “Police officers have been stationed around churches and recreational centres across Tabora region since the Christmas Eve, among other areas to ensure the safety of citizens,” revealed Tabora Regional Police Commander, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Barnabas Mwakalukwa. “Christians in my region were able to receive Christ in their hearts in a peaceful and harmonious atmosphere, as we made intensified patrols even near the churches,” he told the ‘Daily News.’ He confirmed that there were no incidents reported during and the police in the region were working diligently to prevent antisocial incidents. ACP Mwakalukwa urged motorists to be cautious and adhere to road traffic laws while cautioning citizens to observe the country’s laws and avoid all banned practices such as fireworks and burning of tires at New Year’s Eve. Same situation was observed in Tanga Region as RPC Edward Bukombe said that there was no any incident reported during the Christmas Eve celebrations. “We made sure there was police patrols near church areas during the night and morning masses, the same spirit will be maintained during the New Year,” he avowed. He also reminded drivers not to drink and drive as it was too dangerous, saying drunk-driving was a major source of road crashes during festive seasons. “We have intensified patrol in our roads, especially the Arusha- Moshi road to ensure drivers follow all road regulations.” Meanwhile Kigoma RPC, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Martin Otieno noted that Christmas Eve was celebrated peacefully in the region and promised to strengthen patrols throughout the holiday season. In Arusha, the Regional Police Commander (RPC), Assistant Commissioner of Police Jonathan Shana told the ‘Daily News’ that the day was celebrated peacefully across the region. Elsewhere, Mwanza regional police commander, Mr Muliro Jumanne said that no disruptive incidents were reported except for an accident that occurred earlier in the morning Wednesday, at Furahisha road, Sekouture area in Ilemela District that left one person dead. ACP Jumanne told this paper that the police force in the region was still investigating the incident to establish the actual cause of the crash. In Mbeya, RPC Ulrich Matei reported that the police were making sure that citizens in the city celebrated peacefully. Dar es Salaam Special Zone Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Lazaro Mambosasa confirmed tranquil celebration of the Christmas holiday in the city and promised to strengthen patrols especially in beach areas where most Dar es Salaam dwellers visit in festive seasons. “We’re continuing patrolling all parts of the City, especially on the beach areas,” he said. Dodoma RPC Gilles Muroto, on the other hand, said the capital city was calm and people celebrated the holiday securely.