THREE medical universities in the country, in partnership with two medical institutions in the US, have embarked on a project aimed at harmonising medical school curricula by putting in place common standards for all medical personnel. In setting a generic curriculum which will be used as a ref- erence or set point for all medical and nursing graduates once accomplished. The project will be in line with Sustainable Development Goal 3 (SDG3), which stipulates the provision of universal health coverage, ensuring healthy lives and the promotion of wellbeing for all at all ages. The three medical universities are Catholic University of Health and Allied Sciences (CUHAS), Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Science (MUHAS) and Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College (KCMUC). The two long-standing US partners include the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) and Duke University. The project is funded by Fogarty under a health-professional education partnership initiative (HEPI) programme. The joint project entitled “Transforming Health Education in Tanzania (THET)”, aiming at enhancing the delivery of health services in the country, is also in line with the Development Vision 2025 to transform Tanzania into a middle-income economy. THET Project Coordinator, Dr Sirili Nathaniel, noted that the project was important as it involved the improvement of medical school curricula and putting in place common standards for all medical service providers starting with doctors and nurses. “There are many medical universities with their own standards and curricula. The project intends to set up minimum targets that will create the foundation of quality universal health coverage for medical graduates across the country.” He further said every curriculum used in medical universities was good, but harmonisation of the curricula would create specific quality and standards that would be similar in all universities. “This harmonisation intends to fill gaps witnessed by health stakeholders due to lack a common ground. It will also boost efficiency in the provision of health services,” he stressed. Dr Sirili emphasised that medical universities had joined forces to create and adopt a common competencybased curriculum for health education in the country. After the five-year project (2018-2023) it is expected that all graduates from various medical universities will have similar qualifications and standards. He explained that in the 1960s the country had only one medical university, but due to an increase in the number of students by the mid-1990s private medical universities mushroomed. An increase in the number of universities each with their own curriculum brings about differences and complaints. “We cannot say one curriculum is better than the rest, but we acknowledge that the differences create challenges and so there is a need for harmonisation and creating basic qualifications needed for the graduates. This will lead to improved health services,” he said.