WHILE assuming the highest position as Tanzania’s Fifth Phase Government President, Dr John Pombe Magufuli, categorically sent out a strong statement that his regime would not be business as usual, and from the word go, plenty of his pledges have been implemented, or are in the pipeline. His idea might have been hinged on Phineas Taylor Barnum, an American showman, politician, and businessman, who once opted that ‘the foundation of success in life is good health: that is the substratum fortune; it is also the basis of happiness. A person cannot accumulate a fortune very well when he is sick,’ which in a nutshell translates that the health of the citizens comes first, and then others follow. This President Magufuli’s school of thought, access to highquality healthcare for all has become a major policy priority in Tanzania, and highlights the need for the country to establish sustainable financing mechanisms for health and increase domestic resource mobilisation, which midwifed the launch of a programme to distribute 11 digital X-rays at a cost of 2.03bn/- in some referral hospitals. To begin with, the Prime Minister while in Ruvuma Region said the programme would start with distribution of the digital Xrays to referral hospitals in 11 regions before doing the same to 20 Hospitals countrywide to improve local health services. Echoing his thought, the Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, emphasised that the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli was determined to improving provision of health services to the public, which should remind Tanzanians that their health is the major concern of the government, hence it is also their turn to reciprocate by supporting the scheme. In supporting the programme, the citizens should continue paying taxes, and behave as if the machines are owned by them. Cases of sabotage, vandalism and theft of such equipment should now be history, because once they would be destroyed by the same citizens, they ought to know that they would also bear the brunt to repair them with their money paid as taxes. It would be unfortunate to also realize that some residents (read parents) would still not be taking their sick children to the fully equipped health institutions, because of traditional beliefs of banking on quacks in their midst. Equally, as our institutions are also producing out medical professionals, they should be ready to be deployed in the upcountry hospitals instead of clinging in urban areas.