THE festive season in Kilimanjaro Region this year won’t be the same as in the past, following the introduction of ‘ Twenzetu Kilimanjaro Fest 2019 ’. During the festival season, holiday makers will be treated to a lifetime entertainment experience, which will include fun race and music extravaganza starting from December 21. A statement issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Real PR Solutions, the event organisers and signed by the Chairman of the Organising Committee, Clement Mshana said there would be a day-tour of touristic attractions in Kilimanjaro on December 21. Such places include caves at the College of African Wildlife Management, Mweka, Materuni, Kilasia waterfalls, Njoro F orest, Mkomazi National Park, Ngangu Pilgrimage Hill, Maua F orest and so many others. On their return to Moshi Municipality after the day trip, the holiday makers will be treated by ‘After Party’ event, starting from 7pm. The next day, December 22, will host a number of activities which include fun race dubbed Capital Mountain Run (5km, 10km and 5km (corporate), nyama choma, music and assorted entertainments at the Moshi Cooperative University. Also various prizes such as air tickets, paidup accommodation in the finest hotels in the region would be won through instant raffle would be on full display for the participants. The event known as Twenzetu Kilimanjaro F est 2019 is part of a wider campaign dubbed Domestic Tourism Promotion Initiative (DTPI) which aims to aims to sensitize the general public to visit various touristic attractions in a view of boosting the government revenue and also support businesses to grow. Sponsors who have come forward so far include the Tanzania F orests Services Agency (TFS),CRJE (East Africa) L imited, HAL , Kilimanjaro Wonders Hotel, Nyumbani Hotels, Capital Plus International and Afrimax Strategic Partnerships. He said the campaign will then be rolled out to other regions next year, starting with Dodoma, Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Morogoro, Geita and Mwanza.