WHEN it comes to hospital confidentiality, the digital era provides the best platform than having patient information documented in files that any one handling them can access. The remarks were made in Dar es Salaam on Thursday by Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) Head of Teaching, Research and consultancy, Dr Faraja Chiwanga, during the opening of the third Scientific Conference held at the facility themed ‘Health care services in the digital era’. “When it comes to adopting the digital era, patients should not be worried with confidentiality and privacy issues, as the system provides access of information according to the level of the health care provider,” she commented. Explaining that not all information was available to all health providers, access to patient information was controlled. For example a pharmacist can only see the prescribed medicine; an administrator can only enter information of the patient but cannot view any other information. Dr Chiwanga stressed that adopting technology brought about by the digital era was better than having a paper trail of files. The only challenge that may arise is that of hackers, “However, hacking has not happened and the facility is well secured,” she affirmed. MNH vice-chairperson of the board of trustees Dr Ellen Mkondya-Senkoro commented that this year’s scientific conference theme was in line with the government’s and global trends, as it focused on using technology in facilitating and improving service delivery. "The government has invested heavily in ICT systems and infrastructure to ensure that the country is not left behind in technological development," she said. She pointed out that the health sector had great potential to improve service delivery and access to accurate data if the systems are to be used effectively. “It is an undeniable fact that technology and innovation have become part of everyday life. Therefore we must take advantage of this opportunity to ensure that these digital advances facilitate service delivery as well as disease prevention,” she said. Digital technology has begun to be used to reduce the difference in access to preventive services and treatments by bringing information and health education closer to the people, as well as providing support in areas with insufficient expertise, she elaborated.