LOCAL governments set to increase employment, revenue and create sustainable sources of income in their areas as Tanzania Institute of Accountancy (TIA) plans a countrywide programme to build their capacity on preparations for strategic projects. TIA revealed in Dar es Salaam yesterday that it had submitted to the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning guidelines on the modality of conducting such training. TIA Acting Chief Executive Officer, Luciana Hembe said after endorsing the guidelines the ministry would conduct training to local government officials. She was speaking at 17th graduation ceremony in Dar es Salaam yesterday whereby 8,695 students from its six campuses in Dar es Salaam, Mtwara, Mbeya, Singida, Mwanza and Kigoma graduated. The number of graduates has this year increased by 25.9 per cent compared to last year when only 6,418 graduated. Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Amina Shaban graced the event on behalf of the minister for the portfolio, Dr Philip Mpango. Ms Hembe explained that the programme was in line with the fifth phase government’s move, insisting on local authorities to increase revenue collection for enabling the provision of sustainable services. TIA, through its research and professional consultancy department, has conducted studies and offered consultancy services to local authorities on, among other areas, better ways of introducing projects and evaluation of revenue sources. TIA, being one of the government’s agents, has also provided consultancy on proper writing of strategic projects for stimulating sustainable revenue. For her part, the deputy permanent secretary told the institute to continue being creative and come up with new initiatives of providing consultancy and research services. Ms Shaban also urged TIA to ensure it produced graduates who met requirements for the job market. “We need professionals who are efficient, skilled and with the capacity of addressing challenges,” she said. Chairman of the advisory board of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Mr Said Chiguma, noted that there was evidence from employers confirming that TIA graduates performed well in the workplace. This has encouraged the institute to enroll more students for the courses it offers. He said the board had continued prioritising consultancy and research services so that the institute contributed more to the country’s economic development.