WHAT differentiates an educated citizen from an illiterate fellow is their thought process, mentality, and behaviour. Most often than not you would expect an educated person to be principled, strong believer of the rule of law and non-violent. It is disgusting to hear students at Dar es Salaam University are planning to go on strike in protest over delayed loan payments. Through the Dar es Salaam University Students’ Organisation (DARUSO), the students issued a 72-hour ultimatum on Monday demanding to be paid loans failure of which they would launch a protest. Any such move is uncalled for, especially at a time when the government is tirelessly working on, not only transforming the country’s economy but also improving the provision of social services, including enhancing access, retention, attainment and progression in higher education. The students’ ill-advised intention should, thus, be condemned by every good citizen who believes in problem-solving dialogues rather than disruptive protests. Universities serve as a grooming ground for the next generation of leaders and our students should be learned enough to realise that and of course behave accordingly. University students should know how to get what they want without violating the country’s laws, since education gives the recipient correct and logical alternative ways of thinking and acting. It is worth noting that ‘students’ protests’ has been a thing of the past. Our young brothers and sisters, should not take us back to the dark days when universities were brought to a virtual standstill by students’ strikes. The unprecedented wave of riots often compelled police force to use tear gases against disruptive students just to restore order at our colleges. Most often these strikes are unproductive and violate the rights of other students, who face disruption, with lectures and tutorials cancelled as a result. We are therefore calling upon students who have grievances to use proper channels to advance their claims and avoid falling into the trap of violent conduct, as that could have adverse effects on their career.