THE Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) declared that it is not satisfied with the performance of the country’s athletes in various international competitions. TOC President, Gulam Rashid and Secretary General Filbert Bayi said time is up for national sports associations to invest in youths as a measure to turn around the misfortunes. Opening the TOC General Meeting in Morogoro on Tuesday, Rashid said that the country was experiencing medal drought in such competitions as Olympic, Commonwealth and Africa Games, a trend he said must be reversed. “The only solution to this misfortune is to invest in young athletes and help them grow to the top level,” he said. The four-day meeting is attended by officials from over 40 national federations/associations from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. Rashid said that their gathering is meant at finding solution to the dwindling performances by Tanzania athletes. The officials will also be imparted knowledge of sports marketing and strategic planning for effective sports development. On his part, Bayi also urged the federations and associations to invest in youth sports development programmes and capitalise on Inter- Primary and Secondary Schools Games (Umitashumta and Umisseta) to identify new talents. However, he cautioned that the games might not be the solution, if the federations/ association won’t have sustainable plans of promoting and grooming the talents discovered. Bayi also urged sports federations/ associations to embrace good governance and transparency in their leadership, in order to promote and develop sports in the country. He said that TOC had been practicing good governance and transparency in their management and that’s why they have made amendment in their constitution by excluding the section that allow members of the Executive Committee, to vote in the general election. “TOC has been transparent in providing their financial reports to their affiliated federations/ associations as well as in their implementations of the annual calendar,” Bayi said. In another development, TOC has unveiled that only two athletes have met the qualification standards set for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. “It is unfortunate because while we are struggling for the 2020 Olympics with only two athletes others are already setting their focus on the 2024 and 2028 preparations,” lamented Bayi.