RESIDENTS of Ikuza and Nyakabango wards in Muleba District in Kagera Region have been cautioned to avoid allowing children to go alone on Lake Victoria shores for swimming or drawing water, in the wake of an increase in incidents of crocodiles attacking and killing people. The Chairman for Kashenye village in Ikuza Ward, Mr Daniel Libentius, told this reporter by telephone that nearly eight people were killed by stray crocodiles between 2017 and last year. “The most recent incident happened on last Tuesday, when a 12-year old girl was killed by the reptiles”. Ward Councillor for Nyakabango, Mr Pastory Gwanchele, said that a seven-year-old boy, identified as Ibrahim Festo, was attacked and killed by a huge crocodile last month. According to him, a group of about six children had gone to the lake to fetch water when the reptile grabbed and dragged away the hapless boy. “I immediately reported the matter to Muleba District Commissioner (DC), Engineer Richard Ruyango who dispatched a team of natural resources (game) officers and together we mounted a massive hunt. “We managed to killed one of the crocodiles on Friday morning, but when we skinned it, the body of the missing boy wasn’t there. This indicates that there are still many stray crocodiles that have escaped from the nearby Rubondo National Reserve,” he said. Mr Gwanchele further explained that this was the second incident to happen in Katembe village. In 2018, a Standard Six female pupil at Nyakabango Primary School was also killed by a crocodile in similar circumstances. Ward Councilor for Kemondo, Alhaj Atwib Kayoza, said three people were attacked by crocodiles. A Form Four student at Kagondo Secondary School in Muleba District identified as Jovina James (18) was seriously wounded in a recent crocodile attack. "She died a few hours later while receiving treatment at Kagondo Mission hospital, he said." Ward Councilor for Muhutwe, Justus Magongo, led hundreds of mourners at the funeral of the late Jovina at her parents’ home village, Irundu.