NO show by several sports associations/federations at the two-day sports marketing seminar hosted by the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) in Morogoro has left the body’s top leaders fuming. TOC General Secretary, Filbert Bayi said it was unfortunate that most of the association/federations have snubbed the seminar, which is otherwise useful for the growth and development of sports in the country. Bayi said the TOC has been active in organising training, courses and seminars for sports associations/ federations leaders in the country. “We decided to host this seminar on marketing in sports, because we realized how important it is to increase our knowledge in marketing but we have noted with concern that some of the sports bodies have not attended,” lamented Bayi. President of the TOC, Gulam Rashid, who was the chief guest, said most sports associations/federations in the country have not fully promoted their brands and this is why they fail to attract sponsors and partners “You have not been doing enough to tract sponsors and partners because your brands are not well known. For a brand to be well known and recognised it requires high level of good governance, commitment, creativity and marketing knowledge,” he said. He challenged the sports associations/federations leaders to conduct a thorough evaluation on their performance that will help them to identify their shortcomings and address them effectively. Instructor of the seminar, Henry Tandau, who is also the TOC Vice- President, presented an insight into the role of the marketing in developing sports. He said most sports leaders have been complaining that they don’t get sponsorship to run various events and programmes but most of them do not understand why they fail to attract sponsors. Tandau praised the arduousness of TOC in making contact with the sponsors and partners to supports sports associations/ federations in the country. “It means that we have to work that much harder to make to market our brands if we do want to get reliable sponsorships,” said Tandau.