RESIDENTS of Mikocheni A, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, in Dar es Salaam, are up in arms after an investor allegedly grabbed an open space in their area. They told reporters from various media houses in Dar es Salaam that the investor, who they mentioned by one name as Mr Nakiete, had fenced the contested plot after claiming that he obtained it through legal means. They marched to the office of the chairman of the local government where they were told that he was away and was not responding to calls. Reporters finally got hold of Ms Salma Zuberi who is the acting chairlady. She, however, said on phone that her office was not aware of the issue as no complaint had been brought to their attention, but the residents refuted it, saying it had been dragging for some time. The Ten-Cell leader, Mr Amani Mero, expressed disappointment at the issue and accused the local leaders of selling land without involving the residents. "Our children have nowhere to play and this area had many trees, but after he bought it, all the trees have been cut down and fenced the open space under tight security,” said Mr Mero who queried how come he did it at night and under tight security. One of the residents, Mr Richard Riwa, told our reporter that a land dispute between Mr Nakiete and the residents began when they discovered that the area, which for years has been used as a playground located on plot No 628, had been sold to the investor. He said after discovering the open space, which has been used as a playground for years ended up in the hands of the investor, the local government leaders responded that he was the legal owner of the plot. “Last year, we discovered that he was fencing the plot and the funny thing is that he was doing this at night, accompanied by bouncers armed with machetes,” he said. When contacted for comment, the local government chairman, Mr Bernard Lwehambura, did not answer the call and the residents told our reporter that since he discovered that the issue was under media scrutiny he had been unable to respond to any calls.