WINNER of the 2019 Tanzania Open professional golfer category, Kenyan Dismas Indiza has advised Tanzania Golf union (TGU) to hosts one of the Safari Open Series. The Safari Open Series is the professional golfers’ competitions that is organised across East African, on which winners of the series qualify for the next year Magic Kenya Open, a European Tours event that bring together top pros from around the world. Indiza, who is one of top East African pros told the ‘Daily News’ during the Tanzania Open in Arusha that he would like to see Tanzania stage one of the Safari Open Series for the development of the game and also open doors for them to win Kenya Open slots. Safari Open Series has been organised in Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda, while Tanzania was also given a chance to hosts one of this year’s series, but could not manage that. Indiza said: “It could be better to come to Arusha for the Safari Open Series rather than being invited for Tanzania Open to support amateurs. It is important for the country to have these kinds of top events here for the growth of the game.” The Kenyan pro, who is planning to join European Senior Tour from next year, has already qualified for the next year’s Kenya Open after winning several series so far. “I’m no longer young, I have already reached 50 years that makes me eligible for senior tours… it is my dream and I’m going to fulfill that, not just for the sake of participating but win something there,” he added. So far, Tanzania Open amateur champion Victor Joseph is the only local golfer, who has qualified for the European tour event next year, after winning the Kenya Amateur Stroke Play Championship in Kenya in October. Tanzania senior pro Salim Mwanyenza admitted that it was important for the country to host top notch events like Safari Open Series but said that lack of sufficient support from sponsors make it difficult for that mission to be accomplished. “Professional golf in the country has yet to attract big sponsors, this make it difficult for us to stage tournaments like Safari Open, though I agree it is very important especially for youth who turned pro to play at the top level,” he said. Mwanyenza, who also admitted that his age prevented him to compete at high level, added that in the meantime, Tanzania has to organise as many local series as possible, to help pros sharpen their skills and also win some cash prizes that will help them prepare for the big events.