THE former Prime Minister, Cleopa David Msuya has stepped down from the post of Chairman of the Kilimanjaro Development Forum (KDF) after serving in the position for 15 years. Mr Msuya announced his decision over the weekend during a KDF Annual General Meeting (AGM) which was held in Moshi, within the region, whereby he was replaced by Ambassador Abubakar Ibrahim. Speaking during the meeting, Mr Msuya thanked his fellow leaders at the KDF for the cooperation they gave him throughout his tenure whereby he urged members of the forum to give his successor their full cooperation so that KDF could achieve its intended goals. "KDF was set up to unite Kilimanjaro residents, the Regional Government Administration, business persons and religious institutions in a move meant to address the challenges facing Kilimanjaro and how to curb them. “At the time the biggest challenge raised after the drop in coffee production and the most hit were small farmers,” said the third premier. Mr Msuya appealed to the new leadership of the forum to ensure that they continue giving the education the first priority due to the fact that it has been the first saviour of the Kilimanjaro Region since times immemorial. "Kilimanjaro used to be in the forefront when it came to provide education which was a high quality as well as many scholars but now it seems to be getting backwards, the new KDF leadership should focus on ways to solve the challenges which are facing the education sector in Kilimanjaro so as to restore the respect of the region as far as the education sector in the country is concerned,"  he advised. Mr Msuya also counselled the new leadership to encourage and mobilize more citizens to join the forum so as to increase the number of its members a move which he said would enhance investment in various fields through its members. Speaking on behalf of Ambassador Ibrahim, the Vice Chairman of KDF, Mr Mahmoud Mringo, said the new leadership would focus on reinforcing small industries as one of its first priority. "After the decline in coffee production and that of industries which were based in the region, the regional economy was affected, therefore we are planning to work hard so as to restore the good old days of the Kilimanjaro economically. “Our focus will be on strengthening small-scale industries, mobilizing for the establishing of new ones as well as large-scale industries that will provide jobs," he said. KDF was established in 2004 as a non-governmental, not-for-profit community based organisation that founded by people from Kilimanjaro and friends of Kilimanjaro.