BENJAMIN Mkapa Hospital (BMH) will carry out yet another four renal transplantations between January 6 and 7 next year, according to the Hospital’s acting Executive Director, Dr Kessy Shija. Speaking to media and government communication officers during a tour to the Hospital, Dr Shija revealed that seven people have had kidney transplantation at the Hospital since the introduction of the medical service early last year. The BMH Executive Director said the previous surgeries were a huge success and was optimistic the next plantations will carried out smoothly too. The nephrologist was briefing journalists and government communication officers on the hospital’s feats registered over the past four years under President John Magufuli’s fifthphase administration. According to Dr Shija, the hospital is currently monitoring the progress of the 15 kidney recipients, pointing out the lists includes seven recipients attended by BMH and other 8 beneficiaries treated at Muhimbili National Hospital and abroad. “We have relieved the government of the burden of sending patients abroad for kidney transplantations,” he said. Meanwhile, the hospital is contemplating to partner with Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) in the use of rats for tuberculosis (TB) detection, a technology invented by the Morogoro-based university. Speaking here recently after presentation on SUA’s Detection Rats Technology, Dr Shija said BMH would consider teaming up with SUA in applying the technology. “We are pleased with SUA’s Detection Rats Technology and we’ll consider a partnership with the university in the application of this new technology,” Dr Shija said. There are 10 million new global cases of tuberculosis per year and 1.6 million people die from the disease. In most sub-Saharan African countries, only about half of the patients with active tuberculosis are diagnosed. According to SUA’s APOPO TB Tanzania Programme Manager, Dr Georges Mgogo, APOPO’s 24-hour approach ensures that more people get on treatment and decreases time spent tracking down patients who already returned home. APOPO is a non-profit organisation with Belgian roots that research, develops and implements detection rats technology for humanitarian purposes. They call their trained rats HeroRATS. Dr Mgogo explained that APOPO and the HeroRATS are saving thousands of lives across the globe by detecting unexploded land-mines and missed cases of tuberculosis and that rats have an incredible sense of smell. “They’re cheap to maintain and easy to transport. The rats are fast, accurate and efficient in their tasks,” he said. “We work in partnership with these wonderful animals and do everything we can to ensure that they are treated like the heroes they are. All of our HeroRATs receive an exciting and nutritious diet,” he observed.