THE Board of Directors of the African Development Bank (AfDB) has approved 625.6bn/- (272m US dollars) soft loan to Tanzania for the construction of a new international airport in the capital city of Dodoma. According to a statement released by AfDB on Thursday, the funding package, which was approved on Wednesday, comprises a 457bn/- (198.6m US dollar) loan from the bank, 53bn/- (23.52m US dollars) from the African Development Fund (ADF) and 115bn/- (50m US dollars) in co-financing with the Africa Growing Together Fund (AGTF), a co-financing facility of the People’s Republic of China managed by the bank. The new Msalato Airport is set to be built on the right hand side along the Dodoma-Arusha highway, some 12 kilometres from the Dodoma Central Business District (CBD). The land designated for the airport is 9 kilometres long and 5 kilometres wide, which is approximately 45 km2. The project involves the construction of high-capacity airport infrastructure to meet the expected growth in air transport from the city’s new role as the administrative capital of Tanzania. Work will be carried out over four years and will include a passenger terminal, a runway, and air navigation equipment. The project includes other related operational services such as a fuel distribution company, water supply systems, electrical power distribution substations and a firefighting service. The new facility is expected to handle at least 50,000 aircrafts and a million passengers per year, most of which will be international. It will benefit and serve more than 200 million passengers in East Africa, as well as international trade networks, and especially business travellers and tourists. “Expanded air transport networks in Dodoma, together with the ongoing high-speed railway construction on the central corridor, are necessary infrastructure investments to help unlock and disperse spatial development in the countryside. This will strengthen the city’s potential as a strategic growth pole in keeping with Tanzania’s national development aspirations of fostering shared growth for all the regions,” said Amadou Oumarou, the Director of the Bank’s Infrastructure and Urban Development Department. As of late November 2019, the African Development Bank portfolio in Tanzania comprised of 21 public and two private-sector operations, with a total commitment of approximately over 4.6 trl/- (2.1bn US dollars). The transport sector alone accounts for 51 per cent of project funding, followed by energy (16 per cent), water and sanitation (12 per cent), finance (6 per cent), agriculture (6 per cent), multisector interventions (5 per cent) and social projects (4per cent). Preliminary stages for the project began years ago, including a feasibility study and demarcation of the area at a cost of 715.5m/-, secured as a grant from the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA).