IN his message to the residents during celebrations to mark the 58th independence anniversary, Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Brigadier General Marco Gaguti appealed to Tanzanians to uphold the existing peace, saying people should work hard, avoid shortcuts and warned the youth to shun loitering. Peace was fundamental, to achieve sustainable development any nation needs peace. Tanzania, one of the most peaceful and politically stable African countries, offers an attractive investment climate, a rich and diverse natural resource base and a growing consumer market. We should unite in celebrating this occasion. Political and religious differences should not divide us. Mr Gaguti reiterated the government commitment to ensure that people get maximum social services including health, education and water infrastructure. The number of dispensaries increased from 206 during 2005 to 239 by 2010, Health centres increased from 21 (2005) to 28 (2010) while the number of hospitals also increased from 13 during 2005 to 15 by 2010. The government is keen to ensure that more lives were saved through improved health delivery and construction of health facilities including dispensaries in rural areas where most Tanzanians lived. The efforts include Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS), use of Insecticide Treated Nets (ITN) and to provide measles vaccinations and polio jabs to infants. During 2018/19 financial year government released about 4.5bn/-for the construction of three district hospitals for Kyerwa, Karagwe and Bukoba districts. Also, three dispensaries namely Nyakanazi (Biharamulo), Bunazi (Missenyi), and Kayanga (Karagwe) have been upgraded to Health Centres. We thank President John Magufuli for upgrading Bunazi (Misenyi), Nyakanazi (Biharamulo) and Kayanga (Karagwe) dispensaries to Health Centres. This is a big achievement because in the past pregnant women had to travel long distance of 50 kilometers. Phinias Bashaya a journalist based in Bukoba Municipal Council noted that tangible achievement had been recorded during the 58 years of independence. While at independence there was no university in Kagera Region the number to-date stood at three. These are Josiah Kibira University College, Cardinal Rugambwa Memorial College and Open University of Tanzania. The number of secondary schools also increased from two during 1961 to 191 while the number of high schools increased from one to 15. Several projects were also being implemented to speed up people’s development. Water blues facing Kagera residents will soon become a matter of history following concerted efforts taken by the government to ensure that most Tanzanians get clean water. Rural women spend countless hours trekking through harsh terrain in search of water, at times fearing for their safety, while enduring fatigue, illness and having to deal with contaminated water. Water plays an important part in people’s everyday life, it takes much time and energy to collect it. But the water from many sources is often not safe to drink without treating it, leading to diseases like diarrhea, typhoid and cholera. Water and Irrigation Minister, Professor Makame Mbarawa, who visited Kagera region recently explained that the government is keen to ensure that by 2020 people living in towns get clean water by 95 per cent and 85 per cent for those living in rural areas, appealing to people to use water resource meaningfully taking into consideration that rains were not favourable due to climate change. Councils in the country should award tenders to qualified contractors, who were financially viable, warning that stern measures would be taken against local contractors , who would be implicated in undertaking shoddy works. We are closely following up all water projects undertaken by local contractors. We have also deployed investigators for verification at construction sites and take immediate action accordingly. I have received reports indicating that some of the water projects, which cost millions of tax payers’ money are nonfunctioning, while others are yet to be completed. My appeal to leaders is to ensure that the funds are well managed for the benefit of the majority poor. To achieve the target government established the Rural Water Supply Agency (RUWASA), which kicked off on July 1, this year. Transporters and Lake Zone regions of Mwanza, Geita, Kagera, Simiyu and Kigoma residents have been assured that the rehabilitation of Ushirombo-Lusahunga- Rusumo road was in progress and would be completed within four months. Rehabilitation of Ushirombo-Lusahunga- Rusumo road will ease transport snags faced by transporters and people using the road. This will also attract more investors. Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Elias Kwandikwa revealed that rehabilitation of Lusahunga-Nyakanazi and Nyakanazi-Rusumo road would cost about 5bn/- adding that negotiations between Tanzania and the African Development Bank (ADB) were in advanced stages to get funds for the reconstruction of the Isaka-Ushirombo, Ushirombo-Lusahunga and Lusahunga-Rusumo road. The road’s life-span has expired after being in use for about 34 years. We are in advanced negotiation with the African Development Bank (ADB) to get funds to reconstruct a new road that will endure heavy traffic plying the road to carry goods to neighbouring countries –Burundi, Rwanda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The government was keen to link all border regions with tarmac roads to hasten people’s development adding that in same spirit the government had allocated a big budget for construction of Busisi bridge and construction of a new steamer to ease transport along Lake Victoria. He assured contractors undertaking various public works of the government commitment to pay them on time because the money was available.