OVER two years ago, the government through the Ministry of Live stock and Fisheries initiated a crackdown on illegal fishing to stop depletion of fish stock in the country’s lakes. The ongoing operation dubbed ‘Sangara’ was graced by President Dr. John Magufuli in early January 2017 in a move also to deal with unscrupulous fishermen found with illegal fishing gears in Lakes Victoria and Tanganyika. Stern measures which the government has been taking to control the vice in lakes as well as along the Indian Ocean are meant to protect natural resources and boost productivity of the sector. The launching of the operations has up to now resulted in a marked increase of fish output in the sector which has started to gain high momentum of productivity. The current available statistics shows that, the fisheries sector has made great strides under the operation whereby the revenues have increased from the sector from 379bn/- during 2016/17 trading period to 691bn/- during the 2018/19 trading period. Speaking last week during the 58th year of the independence celebrations which was held at national level at CCM-Kirumba stadium President Dr. John Magufuli said the crackdown on illegal fishing had also boosted fish harvests from 387,547 tonnes in 2017/18 fiscal year to 448,478 tonnes up to the first quarter of the 2019/20 trading period ending September this year. As a result of the intensive campaign against illegal fishing, people have started getting big fishes for consumption. Unlike before, small catches dominated fishing operations mainly because fishermen were using illegal fishing gears. The current initiatives are being undertaken in accordance with the National Fishery Act NO: 22 of 2003 under which the concerned ministry is implementing various strategies including patrolling, monitoring and surveillance along most notorious water surfaces areas found within the national boundary. The Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Luhaga Mpina said recently in parliament during budget session that the review of the Act also enabled the government to impose stringent measures that helped to penalize the offenders and lawfully destroyed their illegal fishing gears. President John Magufuli had recently directed the minister to continually burn illegal fishing gears to curb arbitrary fishing. Illegal fishing often causes grave environmental damage, especially when fishermen use prohibited fishing gears such as driftnets that catches non-targeted species, or their vessels physically damages or destroys coral reefs, seamounts and other vulnerable marine ecosystems. Fish is among the most healthiest foods on the planet which is a high-protein source loaded with important nutrients, such as protein and vitamin D. It is also a great source of omega-3 fatty acids, which are incredibly important for the growth of human body and brain. Statistics made available by the Ministry of livestock and Fisheries shows that an average of every Tanzanian consumes fish weighing 8.2 kilogrammes per year. Apart from fishing expeditions carried out for local consumption, a considerable stock is sold outside the country for foreign exchange. Luhaga also noted that fish production has been increasing in the country during the past few years mostly due to increased technological use of fish farming as the number of fishermen have been enlightened on how to use the needed fishing gears. The economic statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) for 2017 shows that, Li vestock and Fishing industry contributes 2.2 per cent to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and this is among the industries which still lag behind in the country in terms of production. The historical background as related with illegal fishing practices in the country flourished when Tanzania adopted trade-liberation policy in mid-eighties and it was so common in southern regions of Mtwara and Lindi along Indian Ocean where fishermen applied dynamite fishing by use of explosives. The use of explosives was recently curbed after concerted joint efforts by the government and stakeholders who are against the malpractice. These came about after the government introduced punitive measures which resulted into the review of Fishing Act No: 22 of 2003. Fishermen have been so notorious and continue prohibited fishnets such as those whose diameter is below 3 inches which according to marine experts in the country are destroying younger fish. This is contrary to the national environmental policy of 1997 for the fishing sector section 60 which describes clearly fishing activities would be done correctly by using the recommended fishing gears. The section also underlines that better way of increasing fish products which are due to fishing and other ways that destroys environment in fishing would be controlled in accordance with the law. According to the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), illegal fishing is a global phenomenon and needs urgent attention. FAO’s report shows that illegal fishing is rampant in western Indian Ocean coast occasioning a US$ 400 million loss per year. The global statistics required for the consumption of fish for every person is 20 kilos per year, but Tanzania is less likely to beat the amount owing to a number of reasons one is due to budgetary constraints and less availability of fish products in the country. According to one medical professional, Dr. Frank Kirya of Dar es Salaam, fish foods provide minerals and nutrients which are helpful in maintaining people’s health against any diseases. There are a number of vitamins which are found in fish foods which includes Vitamin A, D and E. These types of vitamins are those ones that build human bodies. Vitamin A helps to maintain the ability of people’s eyes into being able to see properly especially during night hours. Vitamin D helps maintain bones while vitamin E helps to keep body skins more healthy. About a month ago, the National Assembly endorsed the ratification of the United Nation’s Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) referred to as ‘port state measures agreement’ which seeks to prevent unregulated fishing activities in the Indian Ocean. The main purposes of this international agreement aims at preventing, deterring and eliminating all forms of illegal and unreported fishing activities and preventing piracy along the Indian Ocean belt, thus it will give Tanzania more powers to deal with malpractices through international laws. Tabling the agreement, the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Mr Luhaga Mpina noted that, the pact will strengthen Tanzania’s capacity in eliminating illegal harvesting of its marine resources and eventually enable it reap more benefits from blue economy. The ratification has made Tanzania to be included among other South Western Indian Ocean (SWIO) countries which are strongly dedicated in the fight against illegal fishing and misuse of other marine creatures which are being practiced in oceanic waters. Before the ratification of this pact, Tanzania, Yemen and the Comoros were among the 12 SWIO countries which were yet to endorse the international agreement which also aims at preventing piracy in the ocean. The decree of port state measures agreement has been ratified so far by 60 countries worldwide, and along the Indian Ocean belt countries which had already ratified included, Kenya, Madagascar, Seychelles, Mozambique, Somalia, South Africa, Reunion, Maldives and Mauritius.