COAST Regional Commissioner (RC), Eng. Evarist Ndikilo says there has been a significant increase in tax collections over the last four years, attributing it largely to the increase in the number of industries in the region, as well as good supervision. He made the remarks in Kibaha on Friday, while opening a consultative meeting embracing the government, investors and business persons, which was also attended by ministers, deputy ministers , members of pParliament and other regional officials in Kibaha Town. " In 2011-In 2015 Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) regional office collected revenues totaling 64.9 billion shillings but between 2016 and 2019, a total of 147.2 billion shillings was collected, making the region rank Number 12 out of 30 regions in tax collections in the country ", he noted. He added that the region had been working to expand investment opportunities in all sectors and that, currently, plans were underway to construct Kwala Dry Port in Kibaha District which will be a prime centre for investments. However, the RC cited a number of challenges which had to be overcome in order to create a friendlier environment for industrial development and investment in the region. He mentioned them as unreliable electricity, lack of quality raw materials and lack of market for some products, which has already forced one of the industries to be closed. He also pointed out that some investors were not cooperative on the aspect of creating safe working conditions, while others were not adequately transparent in disclosing the actual profits they generated. Officials who attended the meeting included the Minister for Agriculture Japhet Hasunga, Minister in the President's Office (Investment), Angela Kairuki and the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, William Lukuvi. Others are Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning Dr Ashatu Kijaji, Deputy Minister for Energy Subira Mgalu and Deputy Minister Home Affairs Hamad Yussuf Masauni. Some of facilitating agencies which attended the meeting include Small Industries Development Organisation (SIDO), Business Registration and Licensing Authority (BRELA), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Rural and Urban Roads Agency (TARURA), Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), Export Processing Zone Authority ((EPZA), Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS), Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), Tanzania Chamber of Commerce and Industries ( TCCIA) and National Microfinance Bank (NMB). The meeting brought together farmers, big, medium and small entrepreneurs, transporters, livestock keepers, investors in tourism, hotels, fishing, mining and industries. They were given opportunities to highlight challenges they faced in their day to day activities and received reactions and directives from responsible ministers.