THE government, through the President’s Office at the State House, has set aside over 1.9tr/- ( 833m USD), for the second phase of Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN) programmes, set to commence next month. This was revealed after the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the President’s Office, Dr Moses Kusiluka, toured some projects in Arusha Region, and expressed his satisfaction over best and timely implementation. According to the PS, there will be expansion of beneficiaries of scope in to reach more people. The government projects have been implemented by Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) since 2015 to 2019. Usually, they (projects) have been initiated by PSSN beneficiaries in line with their priorities in the community and the government back ups their efforts. TASAF has also been exercising cash transfer to poor households, to help them, among other factors, engage in various income generating activities for betterment of their livelihoods. According to Dr Kusiluka, who also doubles as Chairman of the TASAF National Steering Committee, the projects have been mostly involving improvements in education, health, road infrastructures, income generating activities, livestock and agriculture sectors. “The government has been making thorough inspections and is satisfied with how its funds have been properly allocated and spent. There are lots of changes in the coming PSSN phase, including expansion of the beneficiaries’ scope. All those who were left out in the first phase due to various reasons will be included and many more in need, will be registered,” he explained. For healthy people, the condition is to be engaged in temporary jobs, which will be created in various new projects, so as to qualify being PSSN beneficiaries, according to Dr Kusiluka. “Our President directs that everyone must work. It should be also remembered that the government secures these PSSN funds through loans from various development partners, including the World Bank. The loans must be repaid; hence, every healthy person should sweat so as to get a portion of this money,” he stressed. TASAF Executive Director, Ladislaus Mwamanga, stressed on expansion of PSSN beneficiaries’ scope following improvements in the needy identification system.