A SHOW organised by the National Institute of Transport (NIT) last week has attracted students from higher-learning institutions in the country to engage fully on entrepreneurship and innovation as a way of easing the current unemployment problem. NIT organised the first innovation and entrepreneurship exhibition to enable the students share entrepreneurship experiences and innovation and chart out strategies for self-employment. The exhibition, held last week, brought together 50 students from various higher learning institutions in the country. NIT Deputy Rector, Dr Prosper Mgaya said in Dar es Salaam that his institute established National Institute of Transport Entrepreneurship, Business and Innovation Centre (NITEBIC) as a move directed at promoting selfemployments among students. “NITEBIC aims are to emancipate students in higher-learning institutions, stimulate their skills, attitudes and mind-set towards a flexible and pro-active stance to entrepreneurial thinking and behavior,” he said. He added: “NITEBIC acts as an incubator for churning out entrepreneurial skills among students in higher educational institutions.” Dr Mgaya explained that the entrepreneurship skill can change the student to focus on job-searching to job-creating programmes. NIT Rector Prof Zacharia Mganilwa said early this year his organisation launched the entrepreneurship centre with the objective of motivating student entrepreneurs in higher learning institutions nationwide to start running their own businesses while in colleges. “If a student pursues the entrepreneurship while at a higher learning college, such a student can be pushed to engage in his chosen field and extricate himself from the looming labour crisis facing many graduates,” he said. “Entrepreneurship is a competence for all, can help students from higher learning Institutions to be more creative and self-confident in whatever they undertake. In fact, entrepreneurial mindsets, knowledge and abilities will be of benefit to young people in all walks of life and in a variety of jobs.”