CONSTRUCTION companies in water projects risk being struck off the register of Contractors Registration Board (CRB) as it turns out some fail to show value for money in their work. At least four companies have been earmarked by the Ministry of Water, as hundreds of millions of shillings allocated for some projects in different parts of the country seem to have been spent unfaithfully. Minister for Water, Professor Makame Mbarawa has singled out one company as Mbesso Construction Limited; saying the ministry was not happy with its performance, particularly when it comes to budget, as it supposedly overcharging, yet standards of the projects are low. Speaking at Tela village in Moshi Rural District last week, Professor Mbarawa said he was not happy with the company and would send his experts to examine the projects, including the Tela one whose costs, according to the company is 900m/-, amount the minister said he did not agree with on the face of it. “They have overcharged. Mbesso is a contractor with whom we have problems. About seven or nine projects they are implementing you find the charges are too high. I saw at Mwakalindi in Mbeya where a mere hut was earmarked for 100m/-and here at Moshi almost the same thing is charging 55m/-. “I have been going through their (Mbesso) projects and estimated costs…I saw this and said I have to come so that I will see. We will send our experts to go through all projects you (Mbesso) implement like this one, I do not think it can cost 900m/-. If it your right you will get, if not you will not get and I am thinking to ask that you are deregistered,” warned Professor Mbarawa calmly amid applause from villagers. The minister said it was possible that there was collusion between the contractor and officials at the Ministry for Water so that they act fraudulently against the Government. He said he was not there so as to arrest the contractor or throw them in jail, but to see people get water from a project that value for money is realised. “We want to see standard projects with value for money and that Old Moshi residents get clean water. I have come to make a follow up of this project and not to arrest or throw the contractor in jail. We want them to use money wisely and be truthful in their reports. I am going to quantify this with my contractors so that we see,” said the minister. Tela Project Manager identified only as Mr Benjamin explained to the minister that costs were high but justified due to distance it covers and the arrangement representation of physical features of an area. He said it was even challenging on how to lay water pipes so as to get the right pressure without destroying the pipes.