SIMBA SC Head Coach, Sven Vandenbroeck said he was not satisfied with the performance of his side despite a 4-0 victory against Lipuli FC at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. The defending champions stretched their command of the Mainland Premier League to 28 points after 11 matches and have since scored more goals (23) than any other team in the unfolding league. Goals from Francis Kahata, Meddie Kagere and Hassan Dilunga who scored a brace on the day were enough to keep the reigning champions scaling up the league ladders as they want to retain the title for third consecutive time. Up next, Simba face 17th placed KMC tomorrow at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam in another interesting match of the day with the latter still struggling to get back to their usual form. The Kinondoni based club have just won two matches from 12 encounters, losing seven games and drawing three to garner 9 points. KMC were among the league difficult side to face last season no wonder they managed to finish on top four and had a chance to play in the CAF Confederation Cup contest for the first time in their history. Their latest league match against Polisi Tanzania on Tuesday saw them losing 2-1 at Ushirika ground in Moshi. However, briefing the media after the game, Vandenbroeck revealed that he was not particularly satisfied with the performance of the team despite winning with the big margin. “In the first 25 minutes of the opening half, we had a great match creating about four clear chances we ought to score but could not do that. This gave our opponents a belief that they were better too,” said him. He added that they need to work out on the drop of performance from his charges ahead of the upcoming games to continue doing well in the competition. Moreover, the Belgian trainer admitted that he had not seen potential of some of his squad members especially those players who were in the national team duties during the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup in Uganda saying in the next matches, he will make rotation to see them. “I think after January 4th, I will be able to see ability levels of each player in squad and thereafter, we will make decision of who to keep and who to let go,” Vandenbroeck said. His colleague for Lipuli FC, Haruna Hassan admitted that his side was overwhelmed by Simba leading to their fifth loss of the season. “Sometimes, players fail to apply tactical lesson you give them on the pitch and that is what happened to my team today (Wednesday),” he said. He added that when playing against a big club like Simba, you must rely on counterattacks rather than playing open football because Simba has skillful players. It was a third back to back away loss to Lipuli who suffered a 2-1 defeat from Kagera Sugar succumbing to another 1-0 defeat imposed by Biashara United hence deprived a possible nine points from the three clashes.