TANZANIA closed the year 2019 without earning a point in the last two months after maintaining the same position in FIFA rankings. According to the global football rankings released in Zurich, Switzerland on Thursday by world football governing body (FIFA), Tanzania remained in the 134th position, the same they claimed last in the previous listing released on last month. They had dropped one position. In fact, most of the Council of East and Central Africa Football Association (CECAFA) member states have remained stagnant in the latest rankings released yesterday in Zurich, Switzerland. Tanzania’s Taifa Stars lost its second match of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers last month, after a 2-1 defeat to Libya. This came after they beat Equatorial Guinea in the opening match of the campaign. Other Cecafa member states including the zone powerhouse Uganda have also maintained their previous positions. Uganda continued to settle in the 77th as they are still the top positioned team in the region. Second in the Cecafa zone is Kenya, who settled in 106 position in the world, followed by Sudan and Rwanda are placed in the 128th and 131st positions respectively. Tanzania is placed 134th and fifth in Cecafa, followed by Ethiopia placed 146th position, Burundi (151st), South Sudan (169th), Djibouti (184th) and Somalia (196th) and at the bottom place in the region is Eritrea, who are in the 205 position globally. In Africa, there are also no changes in the top three with Senegal at the top but settling 20th position in the world, followed by Tunisia and Nigeria in the 27th and 31st positions respectively. The Africa Cup of Nations winners Algeria are placed 35th globally and are among the top ten point’s winners on FIFA’s world rankings for 2019. Algeria gained 135 points during the year and despite the gains they are the fourth-ranked team in Africa. Algeria are followed by Morocco (43rd ), Egypt (51st ), Cameroon(53rd ), Mali (56th ) and Congo DR (56th ) respectively. Globally Belgium remains top of this month’s nearly unchanged FIFA rankings, followed by France, Brazil and England. Belgium is the FIFA/ Coca-Cola World Ranking’s ‘Team of the Year’ for the second successive time after a record-breaking year for the global ladder. The Red Devils hold on to top spot in a December table barely impacted by just 19 friendlies, but with 1082 international A matches – an all-time high since the Ranking’s 1993 inception – having already been played. World champions France and Brazil also remain in second and third, the positions they held in December 2018, but the make-up of the top five has changed, with England climbing one place to reach fourth and Uruguay moving up to fifth on the back of a two-spot rise. Argentina (9th) and Colombia (10th) have also entered the top ten at the expense of Switzerland (12th) and Denmark (16th), who slipped four and six places respectively over the course of the year. The best mover in the new ranking was Korea Republic, jumping 1 place to the 40th place, while the biggest drop was Hong Kong, who dropped two spots to 141st place. The Ranking’s ‘Mover of the Year’, meanwhile, is Qatar. The 2022 FIFA World Cup™ hosts gained an impressive 138 points over the course of a year in which they won the AFC Asian Cup and made a strong start to the Asian Zone World Cup qualifiers. Besides accumulating the biggest points haul, Qatar also climbed a year-high 38 places, followed closely by fellow climbers Algeria (up 32 ranks) and Japan (up 22 ranks). Given the teams who have made most progress in 2019, it’s no surprise to find that the regional composition of the top 50 has changed over the year, with Europe’s dominance diminished.