...JPM declares wealth against deadline WALKING his talk, President John Magufuli yesterday submitted dully filled assets and liabilities declaration forms to the Ethics Secretariat, a move that sends a clear message to other leaders to honour their constitutional obligation against tomorrow’s deadline. As the Head of the State, and being a top public servant, the President led by example by meeting the requirement that leaders declare their wealth, with the secretariat warning noncompliant staff. Filling the declaration forms is mandatory for every public leader as stated in the Public Leadership Code of Ethics Act, backed up as a legal and constitutional requirement. Receiving the President’s forms through his Private Secretary, Mr Ngusa Samike, the Secretary Commissioner Judge (rtd) Harold Nsekela in Dar es Salaam at his Zonal Office said that Dr Magufuli implemented his constitutional obligation that requires every leader to submit his/her dully filled declaration forms indicating property, revenue and debts on annual basis. “I remind all leaders to use the remaining two days to bring in their forms, because it is implementing the constitutional requirement(s),” further said the Secretariat. He said the President last year directed them to set a deadline for the submissions, and those who would delay face disciplinary actions. “I will implement the President’s directive after December 31st deadline without fear not even favour,” said Judge retired Judge Nsekela. At least 13,600 leaders are supposed to fill and submit their wealth declarations forms for this year. However, in his statement to media last Tuesday, Judge Nsekela said only 2,369 public leaders, equivalent to only 17 per cent had returned their filled forms to the Secretariat. The remaining 11,330 leaders (83 per cent) by Tuesday had not yet submitted their declaration forms. One of the measures that the Secretariat would take against those who would fail to declare their wealth would include bringing them before the Leadership Ethics Tribunal. According to the secretariat head, the initiative is aimed at implementing the Public Leadership Code of Ethics Act, No. 13 of 1995 (Chapter 398) and specifically to monitor ethics, behaviour and conduct of public servants. To speed up the process, the Secretariat opts to introduce a digital system, where leaders would fast enough fill and submit the forms online, unlike the current paper-based system.