MBAO FC striker Waziri Junior has been named the best player of the Mainland Premier League for the month of November. The Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) Award Committee has also named Azam FC Romanian tactician Aristica Cioaba as the best coach of the month. Junior scooped the award following a string of outstanding performance during the month, beating his closest challengers’ Zambian striker, Obrey Chirwa from Azam FC and Young Africans attacking midfielder Deus Kaseke, who were both nominated for the monthly award. Junior was instrumental for his team in November, in which he featured in four league matches, whereby they won three games. They beat Coastal Union 2-1 away at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga, before registering a 1-0 victory against Polisi Tanzania away at the Moshi Co-operative University Stadium in Kilimanjaro and later won 2-0 against KMC in Mwanza. However, Mbao lost 1-0 at home to Azam FC. In all four matches, Junior played a great role in his team’s success and scored two goals. On his side, Kaseke enabled his side Yanga to win three matches played during the month in which he contributed three assists, while Chirwa scored a hattrick in a 5-0 victory against Alliance FC in Mwanza. In the coach of the month award, the committee picked Cioba ahead of Charles Boniface Mkwasa (Y oung Africans) and Mbao’s Hemed Morocco. The ‘ ice cream makers’ club tactician won the award after leading his side to three wins in November from four outings. The winner of player of the month award will receive a trophy and 1m/-cash prize from the league main sponsors Vodacom Tanzania and as well a decoder for the league co-sponsor Azam TV. For winning the award Cioba, will be awarded 1m/- by the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) . October awards was dominated by Mtibwa Sugar after the best player and coach of the month went to the Morogoro based club, in which, attacking midfielder, Jafari Kibaya and his head coach, Zuberi Katwila won the awards respectively. And, that was after the defending champions Simba dominated the September awards with striker, Miraji Athumani and former Belgian tactician Patrick Aussems won the awards respectively.