MANUFACTURERS and importers of fertilisers are attributing sluggish investments in the sector on harsh conditions for securing loans that financial institutions are setting. The stakeholders cited high interest rates and absence of enough grace period as setbacks to venturing into establishment of fertiliser factories, despite high demand of the products in the local market. According to Agriculture Minister Japhet Hasunga, annual production of fertilisers currently stands at 60,000 tonnes against the demand of 1.1 million tonnes. “When you take local production and imported fertilisers you would have a total of 514,000 tonnes, which is below half of the country’s total demand,” Mr Hasunga explained. The minister was speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam while opening a fertiliser stakeholders’ meeting whose focus was to establish why investments in fertiliser production was elusive. The agenda of the meeting, organised by the Tanzania Fertilisers Regulatory Authority (TFRA), was in line with the government’s vision to attain industrial economy status by 2025. The stakeholders discussed what the sector could do to motivate the industrial economy. Mr Hasunga said that although banks readily provided loans to investors for capital, the issue of interest rates should be discussed for the sake of boosting the agricultural sector. Representatives from some banks, including NMB, CRDB, and TADB, also attended the meeting as key stakeholders. ‘There are financial institutions in other countries that charge only 1 per cent interest rate, but we (in Tanzania) charge 15 per cent and yet we want to uplift the sector,” he said, adding “Local fertiliser industries should be given priority; we should start investing in fertiliser industries in the country,” he urged, noting that the agricultural sector needed increased application of fertilisers to boost production. The good thing is that Tanzania has abundant raw materials for manufacturing fertilisers.” A member of the TFRA board of directors, Mr Charles Chenza, criticised dependency on imported fertilisers, saying for the country to have a permanent solution, it must produce enough to meet demand. “Many investors speak about the issue of capital, and we should bear in mind that these are our local investors,” he said. Recalling the sentiment by President John Magufuli that he would wish that 100 new billionaires were created during his tenure, Mr Chenza said he would like to see those billionaires coming from agricultural sector. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ on the sidelines of the meeting, Mr Conrad Alex, one of the stakeholders, said the issue of loan interest rates hindered them from seeking loans to boost capital. “If you take a loan this month, a bank wants you to start repayments from the following month while you need enough time to start making profit from a newly established industry,” Mr Alex explained.