TEAMS of young scientific entrepreneurs will assemble at the University of Dar es Salaam Physics Department, to pitch their scientific innovations to a team of esteemed expert judges. The event is the finale of the Future STEM Leaders Programme, a partnership initiative funded by the UK’s Institute of Physics that aims to enhance future career prospects of young people in Tanzania, while simultaneously addressing local problems through innovative solutions. It is estimated that by 2030 the labour force in Tanzania will reach 50 million, increasing the need for jobs and the risk of increasing unemployment. The Institute of Physics (IOP) Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Rachel Youngman, said one solution to this is to empower future generations to create their own opportunities and livelihoods by boosting entrepreneurship and business creation. “We are delighted to be a part of the Future STEM Business Leaders programme again this year,” Youngman said, We welcome the government support with the programme. This showcase event is the culmination of all this training and development. The Future STEM Business Leaders programme supports this approach by encouraging secondary school A level students to apply their scientific training, develop their business knowledge and acquire a broad range of skills that will enhance their future career prospects. It also supports the Tanzanian government’s drive to support technology and science education. The programme begins at the end of Form five where students studying science (in any combination) are asked to propose science-based solutions to local problems within their community. These ideas are assessed by a panel, and five students from each participating school then go forward to join the programme in Form six. Their teachers receive training to enable them to support their students through the programme and teacher CPD assists them in exploring new ways of teaching practical classroom science. The successful students are tutored by local businesses to help them develop the skills they need to turn their idea into a potential business. The programme is run by a network of dedicated partners and we look forward to working with them again next year to support more students, under the leadership of DTBi. The students will pitch the final incarnations of their ideas to an international panel of judges, who will decide which of them goes forward to take up a six-week business internship with Gongali Model, a science-based business in Arusha, Tanzania and developer of the multi award-winning water purification system, NanoFilter. The winners will gain a wide knowledge of all that is involved in running a business during their time with Gongali Model; From finance, administration and staffing to conducting laboratory experiments and product design. The programme is a collaboration of partner organisations, which include local businesses, the Tanzanian Physical Society (TPS), University of Dar es Salaam (UDS) and the Dar Teknohama Business Incubator (DTBI). From 2020, a reshuffle will see DTBI leading the programme, with the UK’s Institute of Physics continuing to provide 100 per cent of the funding. This continued partnership, with a local business incubator as lead delivery partner and secure financial backing from the learned society for physics in the UK and Ireland, will ensure the programme’s sustainability and potential rollout across the region.