UGANDA Cranes once again won the CECAFA senior Challenge Cup after beating Eritrea by three goals to nil. This is the 15th time that the Ugandans have carted away the coveted regional trophy. Uganda Cranes’ success just goes to how consistent their football federation has been over the years compared to their traditional competitors in the region which are Kenya, Tanzania and Zanzibar. The second consistent team in the region is Kenya, one of the leading global sports leaders in athletics. The Cinderella teams are of course Tanzania Mainland and their sister nation, Zanzibar. These are the ‘waswahili’ in every sense of the word and they are where they are because of nothing but lack of seriousness. As I had occasion to note in my last column, both Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar are where they are because they have refused to follow the reset of the pack in the continent by getting, seriously, into soccer academy business. Their neighbours, Burundi, Rwanda, Kenya, Uganda and the latest in the pack, Eritrea are already in it and that explains why they are where they are far, far better placed than Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. Why we have refused to get into the soccer academy bandwagon is difficult to understand. But we have decided, as usual, to go for shortcut, buying foreign players for our clubs. There is nothing bad about buying foreign players. Almost everybody in the world is doing that including the world’s top football nations, most of which are in Europe. But the main difference between European soccer clubs and what Tanzania’s top flight clubs is that while the former are going for quality, the latter are as usual going for cheap foreign players! Now, you cannot compete with the best in the continent through the use of cheap foreign players who featured in their national soccer teams three to five years ago. In that scenario, we will never succeed and that explains why we are in this today’s situation. We cannot even go beyond preliminary rounds of any of the continental soccer club tournament. Our colleagues are doing better than us because they have started working seriously on their players, drilling them when they are still young and include them to play in a convenient football environment. The few flashes of soccer brilliance we are witnessing here and there is a result of what Azam FC and a few struggling soccer academies have been doing in the last five years. It is because of the handful of soccer academies that we were able to raise potential players like Kelvin John and many others. It is because of the same thing that we now have not less than three players, from Azam FC in Spain. Consider where we would have been had Simba and Young Africans also joined the fray not today, but yesterday. We would have certainly not been where we are today. The sooner we realize that it’s almost impossible, these days, to produce a Msuva, Thomas Ulimwngu and Samatta outside soccer academy the better and stats speaks for themselves. Both Samatta and Ulimwengu are a product of soccer academies during Leodgar Tenga’s days. But Msuva is not, much as he has succeeded in getting into professional pack. What we need to know is that Msuva is where he is because his discipline which is not the case among most players who have learnt the game through the streets. In short, getting Msuvas into well paid professional ranks is not easy and again, statistics speaks for themselves. We all know, for instance, that in terms of talent, there are many players at home who are far better than Msuva. But they will never get where Msuva is today because they lack discipline. But it’s not easy to get a player who has disciplinary problem from those who have gone through soccer academy. And the reason is very simple, it’s easier to upgrade a player into a disciplinary player from tender age through the Kiswahili saying of samaki mkunje akiwa bado mbichi theory which translates to ‘fold a fresh fish than a dried one’.