THE Judiciary is keeping pace with the Fourth Industrial Revolution and country’s strategy to attain middle income status, ensuring quality service and fair justice delivery to all. In achieving that, the Judiciary is taking its officers to different induction programmes as well as ensuring that use of information technology is no longer voluntary but compulsory, as part of the Judiciary is on full swing as far as science and technology is concerned. The highest officers of the Judiciary spelt unequivocally yesterday at Arusha that all officers of the Judiciary from RM’s Courts to the Court of Appeal should be ready for the tasks, with judges in-charge of respective zones directed to oversee implementation of the same. The Chief Justice (CJ) Professor Ibrahim Juma; Principle Judge, Dr Eliezer Feleshi and the Judiciary Chief Administrator, Mr Mathias Kabundunguru said here that Judiciary must play its pertinent role in development process of the country and fulfill positive expectations of the stakeholders in line with the laws of the land. CJ Juma, when officiating a five-day induction programme for judges in-charge of High Court zones in the country and other senior officials of the Judiciary, said good leaders must change at the pace the world is changing, especially now in science and technology, lest it be disrupted or swept away. “Judicial leaders must change at pace as the world changes in technology …the Fourth Industrial Revolution is here … we talk of Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and others that bring comprehensive revolution. The Judiciary cannot ignore, it is taking steps to ensure it is beneficial rather than disruptive,” said the CJ. He called upon the judges in-charge of respective zones to ensure their subordinates comply with required standards and on time, exercise their power in fully implementing the Judiciary Statistical Dashboard System (JSDS2). The system is a web application platform for Case Registration and Administration. Its application is used by the Judiciary to keep and manage both civil and criminal cases records. He called on the judges as well as magistrates should log in their accounts on the system regularly to ensure that correct information is entered and relayed on the same day of case filing. From January 1 next year, magistrates and zonal judges will not have to file statistics on monthly basis to the Judiciary Headquarter, but the same will be taken from the system from day to day, hence required efficiency. The CJ said good leaders build strong institutions and not individual names; hence the judges and other senior officials should be engines of Judiciary transformation, inspire others and lead by examples. JK Feleshi said judges should take the Judiciary to the next level, strategically positioned to offer best services as the country gears towards industrialisation and middle income status. Mr Kabundunguru said justice was key in development and Judiciary was key in leading role in maintenance of law and order.