THE life style of many Tanzanian children, just like those of their colleagues in many other countries, has drastically changed in the past few years. Nowadays, many children, when they return from school, confine themselves at home, and only a few of them spend time to play outside their homes with other children in their vicinities. Many children, even in some villages, are usually plugged into devices like TVs, tablets, and smart phones well before they have been sent to nurseries or Muslim schools (madrasa) to study Quran. No doubt technology is also an important part of a child’s health and development, but this privilege is constantly abused, and as a result it badly affects the young ones physically and mentally. No wonder many children today are not engaged in any sport activities as it was with their predecessors a few years back. There is no argument that if well utilized, the television can help preschoolers learn the alphabet or good behavior, but many parents feel the best programmes for their children are cartoons because they excite the young ones and make them happy. Tanzanians must be aware that allowing their children to spend a long time watching cartoons instead of going out to play with other children results in making them overweight and to have no interest in sports. On the other hand, children who either watch or play violent games are more likely to be aggressive and have little interest in sports. At times, some of these games, including cartoons, depict risky behaviors, such as smoking and drinking, and also reinforce gender-role and racial stereotypes. Children (and even some adults), usually learn from and imitate the behaviour of individuals they observe, specifically when the individual is rewarded for aggressive acts. There is enough testimony to show that children who constantly witness their favorite TV “heroes” being praised for beating up or killing the “bad guy” would, in turn, incorporate aggressive acts into their own when they differ with their playing mates. They grow up with this behavior and continue with it when they are adults. In Tanzania, we have seen how some films of violence have changed the lifestyle of many Tanzanians. Today, many youngsters, and even some adults, look at some actors like Sylvester Stallone as their hero, and especially for his role in the film ‘Rambo’. No wonder some Tanzanians know so much about this movie star than Filbert Bayi, the only athlete in this country to have set a world record in 1,500 meters way back in 1974 at the Commonwealth Games in Christchurch, New Zealand. I am not surprised that you could find Rambo plastic bags in each corner of this country before they were banned, but not a single one wearing a T-shirt with a picture of Bayi or of Peter Tino who scored the ‘diamond’ goal which enabled Tanzania, for the first time to qualify for the finals of the Africa Cup of Nations in Nigeria in 1980. This tendency of embracing something foreign is also now evident in Zanzibar, where in some schools they are trained to play baseball and soft ball while they have no idea of how to play traditional games. Therefore, it is important for parents to keep tabs on their kids’ screen time and set limits to ensure they’re not spending too much time in front of a screen, and to make sure that they watch the right programs. Parents should place consistent limits on screen time and encourage their children to get out of the comfort of their homes to go and play and make friends. In fact, playing with fellow children helps children to learn many things from their colleagues about life, and at the same time it provides them with exercise, which apart from turning them into physically fit, it also help them to get a good night’s sleep when they retire to bed. When playing with children from different upbringings, children draw many lessons, which also help them to understand the difference between right and wrong. Parents must also be aware that children who watch risky behaviors on the TV or internet, such as drinking alcohol, smoking and having sex at a young age may lead them to believe it is fun and exciting, rather than understanding that it is dangerous. Health experts have linked too much screen time to obesity, because when children spend a long time staring at screens, they are inactive. By setting healthy limits on screen time, you will help your child to be healthy and show interest in going out to play with other children and have interest in being an active participant of outdoor activities and social interactions. Another negative aspect of allowing children to spend hours watching television screens or playing with smart phones is closing the door for debates and dialogue, and this affects their academic progress, as well as failure to embrace tolerance. It is high time we take steps to reduce the time our children spend on television screens and IPads and encourage them to go out to play with other children, which will help them to become physically fit, social and friendly. Good sports men and women are not made by watching the talking box (television), but by physically taking part in sports.