BENEFICIARIES of the five-day Basic Para Swimming Coaching Course conducted in Dar es Salaam, have been challenged to use the knowledge they have acquired to facilitate the growth of swimming in the country. This was said on Friday by the National Sports Council (NSC) Sports Development Officer Milinde Mahona, as he presided over the closing ceremony of the training held at Nordic School in Dar es Salaam. “Today (Friday) is a special day in your coaching career. Use the skills you have learnt practically by making sure that you help the government in its effort to develop sports. Do not just keep at home your certificates but use them to the utmost,” Mahona urged. He also tasked them to go in different parts of the country and identity talented Para swimmers to be included in various swimming programmes as one way to uplift their talents. “Be able to be multiplying factor through teaching others who had no chance to be part of this important course. It is therefore, your duties to train them,” he said. He then congratulated the main sponsors of the training DESMI for their support, while calling on other companies, individuals and stakeholders to assist in the promotion of Para swimming sport in the country. On his part, President of Tanzania Paralympic Committee (TPC) Gwakisa Mwakabeta lauded organisers of the course, saying it has given awareness to the public that handicapped people can also be involved in swimming programmes. “For a long time, the public had a negative impression towards people with disabilities, believing that they cannot do anything, which is not fair. We have the right to play too,” he said. One of the trainees Ali Bamba from Zanzibar said they have learnt many things from the course, pledging to teach other Para swimmers. “Also, we have been taught how to live well with disabled people and the right training programmes they should be given from us coaches,” said him. In his remarks, the course instructor Ramadhani Namkoveka said he was happy to see that women also attended the training, calling it a big step in promoting Para swimming. “These three women have helped a lot to make the training successful… the previously courses were being dominated by male,” he said.