TANZANIA’S winners of the 2019 regional essay writing competition have attributed strong determination and self-confidence as their wager to success in both the East African Community and SADC challenge. Julieth Clement Mpuya, a form-one student at Kilangalanga Secondary School in Coast Region defied the odds as she scooped awards in both the East African Community and the Southern African Development Community essay writing competitions. It was an exciting feat for a young girl pursuing her education in a ward school, intriguingly found in the remote area. The winners list was heavily dominated by girls, with Vanessa Paul Lema, a form four student at Longido secondary school in Arusha emerging top winner. The 2019 essay writing challenge involved all in-school students from form one through to form six and submissions were in either English, French or Swahili— the newest regional official language. “I have been raised so well and I thank my parents and teachers for that,” said Julieth, adding; “I was very confident of winning and so I did.” The young girl believes that when given the chance, children can do wonders. EAC representative Mr James Joel concurred with Julieth’s assertion and challenged school teachers, parents and communities to help children realize their dreams. “These children are the future of the region,” noted Mr Joel. He revealed that the subject of this year’s essay competition focused on how social, political and economic problems could be solved as a way of advancing regional harmony. The top three winners for the SADC essay were respectively; Cynthia Masuka from Longido, Ruvana Warimba from Morogoro and Julieth Mpuya from Kilangalanga secondary school. For the EAC Challenge the best three were Vanessa Lema from Longido secondary school, Thomas Steven Kalisti from Kibasila and Monica Chacha Nyamhanga from Heritage Secondary School. SADC, EAC and the Ministry of Education Science and Technology offered cash prizes to the winners. In addition, the schools that produced the best contenders received office appliances such as tables, chairs and photocopy machines. Presenting the prizes was the Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology Mr William Ole Nasha, who attributed the results to best education qualities offered by both public and private schools in the country. “This should be a wake-up call to all those who have been downplaying the quality of our education,” he said.