TANZANIA Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC) is finalising its plan of assisting visually impaired people in the country to have access to safety equipment in marine transport so that they can protect themselves in case of accidents. TASAC's Managing Director, Mr Emmanuel Ndomba, revealed the plan in Dar es Salaam this week as he handed over ten wheel chairs worth 10m/-to the Tanzanite Disabled Arts group (TDAG) to ease their daily movements, including participating fully in economic activities. "TASAC plans to have ways of helping visually impaired people to safely access water transport by equipping them with knowledge on safety measures, including those using wheelchairs and crutches or walking sticks. The plans also include educating those with visual impairments and hearing disabilities who are totally left out when giving information on how to rescue themselves during accidents," said Mr Ndomba. Giving a vote of thanks, the Chairperson of the TDAG group, Mr John Nyamuko, said that it was heart touching for people with disabilities to be remembered and supported by private and public institutions to promote their wellbeing and to equally participate fully in economic activities. "We are grateful for TASAC's donation and for promising to spearheaded our safety in water transport. TDAG calls and invites other stakeholders to support what we do and protect our lives when using waterways from one place to another or for some economic activities like fishing, touring or recreational moments," he said. A survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2008 shows that 7.8 percent of the population aged seven and above had some form of activity limitation. The reports also show that most of the disabled persons had challenges in accessing transportation (including water transport). Plus, disabled persons in the country had challenges of illiteracy and access to information and fail to participate fully in productive activities, according to the report.