THE National Bank of Commerce (NBC) Limited has lost its commercial suit against Kongwa District Commissioner, Deogratius Ndejembi for payments of about 90m/- loan facility. This followed the decision given by Judge Stephen Magoiga of the High Court’s Commercial Division to dismiss the suit the Bank, the plaintiff, had lodged against DC Ndejembi, the defendant, for lack of proof of the claims. The plaintiff had sought for declaration that the failure by defendant to pay the plaintiff the whole of outstanding amount of the personal loan facility amounts to breach of group personal loan agreement dated April 25, 2015. He requested for an order for the defendant to immediately pay the plaintiff outstanding amount of 89,732,945/-being principal amount of outstanding personal loan facility and interest as of December 20, 2016 arising out of group personal loan agreement dated April 20, 2015 between the parties. During hearing of the suit, the written statement of defence by the defendant was struck out having failed to appear during preliminary hearing sessions. However, the plaintiff was required to prove his claims as required by the law through filing an affidavit despite of the absence of defense to the same. In his default judgment, Judge Magoiga noted in the affidavit that the plaintiff entered into groups loan application and agreement with the defendant to the tune of 70m/- and such amount is stated to have been credited to the personal account of the defendant called CASA Account product 205. According to him, the plaintiff annexed to the affidavit an unauthenticated and uncertified photocopy of the bank statement account in the name of the defendant and that the demand notice stated as NBC 2 in the affidavit in proof of the claim was not annexed at all in the affidavit. “The above stated documentary evidence is the only evidence attached in support of proof of the claim by the affidavit. This court upon traversing through the entire affidavit together with the accompanied exhibits, I find the exhibit annexed are inadmissible in evidence,” the judge ruled. He elaborated that such documents are photocopies and even when the court orally prayed to be given originals from the plaintiff’s counsel, the one supplied are scanned documents and copy of downloaded bank statement, which is stamped but with no signature of the bank official who downloaded it. Section 18 of the Electronic Transactions Act, no. 13 of 2015, according to the judge, is speaking voluminously and loud how to deal with electronic data message. This was not done to the bank statement annexed. He noted further that the number of account the defendant which is said to have disbursed with the loan amount is different from the one which is in the group personal loan application and agreement and further scrutiny revealed that there was another account named salary account number. Nevertheless, the judge observed further that there was no single paragraph in the affidavit which state any clarification of the three accounts, as to which one was the proper and genuine which was disbursed with the money. “In normal practice one would expect the account number in the Group Personal Loan Application and Agreement to be the number that was disbursed with the amount in question. The variance between the bank accounts was not resolved in the affidavit in proof of the claim,” Judge Magoiga said. This created doubts as to whether the plaintiff indeed, disbursed the money, and if it did why to different account number from the one in the application and agreement. Proof by affidavit does not exempt parties to abide with the Rules of Evidence in production of documents in the secondary form. “At least certified copies could make sense. The photocopied documentary evidence tendered leaves a lot to be desired. So, on the totality of the reasons given, the plaintiff utterly failed to proof whether there was a loan agreement between the plaintiff and defendant and to what tune,” he said. The judge pointed out that the plaintiff, being the custodian of all loan agreements documents, utterly failed to state as to why she didn’t want to produce the original documents in prove of her claim leave a lot to be desired. Facts show that on April 20, 2015, the defendant applied for group personal loan which was approved by the plaintiff to the tune of 7m/- It was agreed that the loan was to be paid by equal monthly installments of 1,777,539.92 for sixty months. The defendant allegedly defaulted and failed to comply with payment schedule agreed in the group personal loan agreement, dated April 29, 2015. It was at that point in time when the plaintiff decided to take the matter to court for further adjudication.