YOUNG Africans are set to begin their Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) today as they entertain Iringa United at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yanga, who have lately been making headlines for their active involvement in the ongoing mini transfer window, but they will not be able to use them in today’s match because their transfers are yet to be cleared by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). However, the Jangwani Street lads have sorted their differences with central defender, Andrew Vincent, who trained with the rest of the squad yesterday and will be available for selection today. Vincent went AWOL for about five months, pressing the club leadership to offset 45m/-as signing fee. Yanga have been busy in the transfer market and they have already recruited striker Tariq Seif, who previously traded at Biashara United and Adeyun Ahmad Selemani from JKT Tanzania. Police Tanzania striker, Ditram Nchimbi is also on his way to Yanga. It is also reported that the Dar es Salaam giants have snatched back their virtuoso, creative midfielder, Rwandese, Haruna Niyonzima from AS Kigali of Rwanda. Niyonzima had a two seasons spell at Simba but was dropped by the Msimbazi club at the close of last season and joined AS Kigali. Before crossing to Simba, Niyonzima had four successful seasons at Yanga. Yanga are also reportedly negotiating deal to sign Ivory Coast striker, Yikpe Gnamien, who landed in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The Ivorian is reportedly to have terminated his contract with Kenyan champions Gor Mahia. After today’s match, Yanga is expected to jet off to Mbeya Region for two back to back Mainland Premier League matches against Mbeya City and Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Stadium respectively. According to the fixture, Yanga will face Mbeya City on December 24th, 2019 before winding up their Green City mission by taking on the current undefeated side in the league Tanzania Prisons on December 27th, 2019. Thereafter, the squad will jet back to Dar es Salaam for another league tie against Biashara United at the Uhuru Stadium on December 30th, 2019. Tomorrow, it will be an opportunity for Simba SC to test their new technical bench led by the Belgian, Sven Vanderbroeck as he is expected to guide his side for the first time against Arusha United at Uhuru Stadium in the city. It will be a good test for Vanderbroeck and his right hand man, Seleman Matola to stamp a convincing victory. For the past two seasons, Simba have struggled to make an impact in the ASFC, making an early exit. They won the Cup way back in May 2017, after beating Mwanza’s Mbao FC 2-1 in an epic final at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. In December 2017, Simba were bundled out by Dar es Salaam outfit Green Warriors in the third round of the tournament 4-3 via penalty shootouts, after the match had ended 1-1 in regulation time at the Azam Complex in Chamazi Dar es Salaam. In December last year, Simba were knocked out in the third round of the tournament by Kigoma based outfit Mashujaa, following a 3-2 defeat at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and the Msimbazi Reds will be eager to erase the past failures. Simba have been quite in the mini transfer window with no player signings reported so far, no wonder the team’s Communication Officer, Haji Manara was quoted recently saying, “Simba squad is already perfect hence no need for new signings.” Meanwhile, Yanga leadership yesterday could not accept or reject wide speculations linking the club with former Simba SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems, who was fired last month. Yanga’s Communication Officer, Hassan Bumbuli said he has not get official information from his bosses about the two sides being in talks insisting that he will only be able to comment on the matter when he has been tasked to do so. However, Bumbuli disclosed that the current Simba coach Vanderbroeck was among many coaches who have sent their credentials for coaching post available at Yanga.