MAINLAND side, Kilimanjaro Stars will fly to Kampala, Uganda today for the 2019 CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup minus trio -- Shabani Chilunda, Idd Selemani and Salum Abubakari due to injuries. Fully armed Stars will head to the battlefield with a contingent of 20 players and will begin their campaign on Sunday by taking on Zanzibar Heroes in a match billed to be thrilling and entertaining. However, Chilunda, Selemani and Abubakari have been confirmed unfit due to injuries sustained while on the Mainland Premier League duty with their club Azam FC according to Stars’ Doctor Emil Urasi. Regardless, Head Coach Juma Mgunda said his side is ready to face any team, which they will encounter during the tournament expected to start on Saturday in Kampala, Uganda. Stars are in group C together with Zanzibar, Djibouti and defending champions Kenya. After the match against Zanzibar Heroes, Mgunda’s charges will face Kenya in the second clash set on Tuesday. After confronting the reigning champions, the country’s envoys will wind up their group C mission by battling up against Djibouti two days later. Briefing members of the media on Wednesday, Mgunda said that they are all ready to tear apart any team which they will face, as their priority is nothing else but to bring home the title. “We are ready to compete with any team in Kampala because we want to register positive results to get the silverware. The whole technical bench is aware that we have to win the championship,” he said. Commenting on the arrival of Zuberi Katwila, who has been included to beef up the team’s technical bench, Mgunda said he is the one, who requested the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to have him (Katwila) on board. “I am happy that Katwila has finally joined us. His arrival will add something big to the team ahead of the approaching competition. It is my hope that he will use his football skills to complement what is already there,” the coach said. On his part, Katwila said he is grateful to have been included at the technical bench, saying it is a big honour to him. “The most important thing for us is to do well in the group stage and proceed into the next round. CECAFA is a respectable tournament as such, we need to be serious to excel at the end,” he said. In his remarks, the team’s goalkeeper Aishi Manula said as players, they know how important it is to win the title hence they will fight wholeheartedly. “It is a longtime since we clinched the trophy and now, we have another opportunity to win. So far, we have shown that we really want it (title),” said Manula, who has been re-called to feature in the national team after being sidelined for sometimes.