CONTRACTORS Registration Board (CRB) plans to embark on countrywide inspection of various projects undertaken by foreign contractors to establish how local contractors have participated. The move comes after the board noticed that some foreign companies tendered to implement big projects but didn’t involve local firms as subcontractors, in violation of the law. The top leaders of the board on Friday visited some project sites in Dar es Salaam and held meetings with managements of foreign contractors who implement the projects. Briefing journalists after the visit, board’s chairperson, Eng Consolata Ngimba, said the move was aimed at protecting and uplifting local companies. “In order to bring efficiency and increase participation of locals in big projects undertaken by foreign companies, the CRB will conduct inspections across the country in order to establish whether foreign companies involve locals,” Eng Ngimba stated. She mentioned some of benefits from local participation in the projects as knowledge transfer which would later enable local companies to undertake such projects in future. The CRB advocated for involvement of local contractors in major construction projects in Dar es Salaam, towards effecting knowledge transfer. The projects were Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DMDP) for expansion of the port, Salender Bridge and expansion of Morocco-Mwenge road stretch. Eng Ngimba said they wanted to see local contractors get subcontracts in major projects. The board chairperson also called upon foreign contractors to observe the country’s regulations and laws. She cautioned that non-compliance would lead to their being banned from undertaking construction works in the country. While opening the joint annual general meeting last September, President John Magufuli told contractors, quantity surveyors and architects that the country had no law that made it compulsory for local contractors to be assigned big projects. However, big foreign companies contracted to implement particular big projects were urged to subcontract local companies.