I STILL remember the reflection of the sun rays from the large double windows washing the living as I hurried to serve coffee and snacks for my aunt. That day, she was reminiscing about her last husband who had died some decades ago. Among my mother’s sisters, she was the one who had the most luck (yea the society says marriage is a lucky chance for a woman) and who’d been married three times. Their conversations were a mix of the current gossip and reliving memories of days gone by, often accompanied by touches of fun and exaggeration. In almost any culture,women like myself are considered late arrivals to the marriage world while almost swimming towards their dreadful thirties and with no attachment all together. Perhaps it was the memory of the men in her life or the lack of an eligible bachelor in my life that turned the conversation towards me finding a husband. Her eyes had squinted up, as though her words needed to pierce a needle, she said to me, “Find a man who loves you more than you love him.” That statement reminded me of a common cliche we had in college "let love find you" and its meaning was so much loaded and in-fact our mothers talk us into this a lot too. Never the less, in a society that's men dominated, this was the only way a woman would be able to take or share any control of her marriage. If he loved you more than you loved him, he would be more likely to treat you better. If he loved you more than you loved him, he would be more likely to concede to some of your desires literally! If he loved you more than you loved him, it would be easier for you to leave if things went south. Not so long ago, after my uncles' funeral, my other uncle and his wife had a lengthy conversation about matters of the heart with us. Seated there along with our parents, they explained to us that no matter how much we succeeded at our jobs, even if we were the boss, at home, we must make sure to defer to our husbands. It is our job to make them look good. When out in society and in the home, we must never outshine our husbands. For a moment, I felt like they were reliving a 1990s tradition but I held on...because thats how you are supposed to behave when elders are offering unsolicited advice. But you see, as backwards as this advice might sound, it is an unbearable truth for the modern women as well. This is exactly how our society expects us to behave. If a woman were to strut their status the same way a man does, she is automatically seen as too bossy, as bitchy, as too aggressive. I know this only too well. Women are expected to be soft and agreeable,obedient and sweet. Should she try to rise above her station, society does its best to “bring her down to size” in its disapproval of her behavior. People will talk about how much of a show off this woman is, even if she’s not showing off at all. By proxy of success and standing up for her self-worth, she is branded as too forward. For men to not be threatened, women must rise quietly, with caution and grace so as not to ripple the pond. In how she handles herself with men, her tone must be pleasing. This is the old school way of doing things. The modern women today can be found to be too abrasive simply for daring to not be shy. They are accused of being arrogant and picky. One of my male cousins once commented on my singleness by saying, “Girls like you, expect too much. You want a man who is as accomplished as you.” Several uncles have also said to me, “You shouldn’t be so choosy with husbands. If they like you, you should marry them.” The message: As a 21st woman, you shouldn’t be too selective. Settle for a man who wants you, not necessarily one that you want. The marriage market is always in favor of the men, as though women were simply a thing to be acquired by whichever male saw her first and took a fancy to her. And as women, we shouldn’t put up too much of a fight. We should just be happy to be picked. And perhaps it is exactly this, that in 2019, the, same advice is still handed out to single women and girls. Find a man who loves you more than you love him, because even our mothers know that for there to be happiness for their daughters, having love as the upper hand may just buy them peace if not equality. Women crave peace and affection as well.