AS we end the year 2019, we welcome the New Year 2020 with great enthusiasm, keeping in mind that we still have an unaccomplished task ahead of us – not only to heed it, but also implement our National Development Vision 2025. If we reflect on what we have been doing this year and the years before, we can see what we have done and achieved what we have done, but haven’t achieved yet as a country and people against this Development Vision 2025 whose thrust is sustainable social development. We say we welcome the New Year 2020 with enthusiasm because this year we will also hold the general election through which we will elect our leaders who will serve us for the next five years. Those who are holding various public positions and would like to be voted for the second time must show us voters why they would like be voted for again this time. We know some of them won’t make it for various reasons for some may give a chance to the new blood or may lose an election. One of the requisite attributes of effective public leaders is service for others. This is difficult to achieve because many leaders prefer to be served to serving others. After the general election, a political party whose candidates win the election will form a new government and be sworn in to serve for the next five years. This is also the time the Development Vision 2025 comes to an end. The Development Vision 2025, which was formulated in 1995, guides economic and social development efforts up to 2025. Its objective is to awaken, coordinate and direct people’s efforts, minds and national resources towards priority sectors that will enable the country attain its development goals and withstand expected economic competition which is still ahead of us. Above all, its three principal objectives are to achieve quality and good life for all, good governance and the rule of law and build a strong and resilient economy that can effectively withstand global competition and challenges. The fifth phase government under President John Magufuli has been pushing for the envisioned middle-income and industrial economy by 2025 as stipulated in the Development Vision 2025. Thus, the leaders who will be elected during the general election have to work hard to ensure we heed our Development Vision 2025 and implement it for the betterment of our country and people. So, we welcome the New Year 2020 and let it inspire us to live as new people and effective leaders for the next five years of a 10-year term of multiparty democracy in Tanzania.