WOMEN entrepreneurs have over the years been victims of inaccurate foreign marketing information but efforts are now being taken to bridge the gap, according to Women’s Trade Organisation. The founder and chairperson of Women’s Trade Organisation, Ms Jackline Maleko is urging women entrepreneurs to ensure they get correct information on available markets and export their goods through legal channels. Speaking at a seminar meant to raise awareness among the women entrepreneurs on laws and duties that should be adhered to by the traders, Ms Maleko warned against use of risky unofficial ‘panya’ routes. She said that some women traders were being subjected to sexual corruption, explaining some unscrupulous officials sought and succeeded to solicit sexual favours just because the women were unaware of their rights. The women were mostly trapped in cross-border business, often losing their goods and belongings, which posed huge setback to their development activities. “Through this seminar we have set a base that would link so many women in the East African market, who now have an awareness of the ‘dos and don’ts’ in this business. No woman entrepreneurs will now be denied of her rights given that she adheres to the existing laws. They will be more transparency in respective businesses; they will then be able to expand their business and have a broad network within and outside the country,” stated Ms Maleko. The association intends to reach out to more than 10,000 women throughout the country, with Manyara having at least 100 who are already beneficiaries of the programme. According to Ms Maleko at least 70 per cent of women cross the country border to trade their goods in the neighbouring nation, hence it was important they adhered to Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and Tanzania Bureau of Standards laws and regulations. Manyara Regional Business Officer, Mr Ally Mokiwa, said the use of illegal means by traders was down to their ignorance of laws. He said they expect huge and positive changes after the training, increased women’s income and improved tax collection. One of traders, Ms Judith Richard, said she has benefited a lot from the seminar, as she knows how to go about doing business according to the laws, rules and regulations while expanding her business in and out of the country. “I was doing business by asking passers-by, some defrauded me. Our biggest challenge as women had been fear, thus not daring to face the situation as it is,” she said.