HYDOM Lutheran Hospital (HLH) is on the brink of failing to meet its daily operational costs due to fewer funds from their main benefactors. The hospital that has been the main refuge to a big number of people in and outside the district due to efficient medical services may no longer be able to cater for the population after Norwegian Church Aid (NCA) reduced their funding from 65 percent to a mere 25 percent. HLH Board Chairman, Mr John Nade, told stakeholders recently that their main concern is over the fate of the hospital and its services to the general public, after the government extended assistance of 19 percent only. In a meeting called here, Mr Nade asked the government to increase the amount so that affordable medical services can continue to be issued to patients, because currently there is no other source of fund that could complement the plummeted amount. He revealed that if they do not get alternative funding soon, it will mean decline in medical services. “Funding involves financial resources on one hand and human resources, which includes doctors, medical personnel and other service providers in the hospital. It also involves medical supplies. We ask the government to assist us and increase the 19 percent so that we can offer quality services,” said the chairman of the hospital situated on the western end of Manyara Region which is ran by the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (LHRC). Hydom Hospital Director, Dr Emanuel Nuas, said that Norway’s funding has been on the downward trajectory for about a decade now, which means that new challenges crop up every day while the number of patients increases. Dr Nuas disclosed that some steps that are negative to the welfare of the people have been taken, including reducing the number of workers so that they can be able to balance their accounting books. “We ask the government to come to our rescue so that we can maintain the quality of our services by getting adequate drugs, medical supplies and employ qualified personnel so that the hospital can maintain its standard,” said the director. Stakeholders, including beneficiaries of the hospital services expressed their concern and pleaded with the government to increase the amount it gives for the sake of the public’s, health since they know that HLH is their best provider of medical services. NCA Country Representative, Dr Felix Mkini, conceded that the funding has decreased to 25 percent until the financial year 2020/21, calling for stakeholders to look for other sources to sustain services instead of depending on foreign benefactors. “Even a baby when it is born, at first it crawls, and after some time it will be able to walk on its own and become independent. The same with Hydom, I advise them that it is now time they look for other reliable sources so that they can run the hospital on their own,” said Dr Mkini. The HLH was established by the Norwegian Lutheran Mission in 1955, six years before the Tanganyika independence, and it is currently owned and operated by the ELCT. It now offers referral and inpatient services such as surgery using modern equipment.