AFTER Christmas celebrations on Wednesday, the public has been urged to be more considerate of the less privileged as they wait to usher in 2020. The Human Resource Manager at the Dar es Salaam Serena Hotel, Ms Sophia Mketo, observed in Dar es Salaam over the weekend during a Christmas luncheon hosted by the hotel for 151 children from Kurasini National Orphanage Centre and Chamazi Orphanage. Ms Mketo said the festive season is a time to come together with loved ones and remembering the less privileged people like orphans who have no parents but the community. She called upon individuals from the family level, groups and organisations to share the little they have acquired throughout the entire year with these children who have no one to turn to. “The kind of love should not only be through providing material things, but also by hosting them in your homes, dining with them or buying small gifts for them, this is also a way of showing affection,” said Ms Mketo. According to her, the hotel has been hosting the program for the past eight years during festive seasons and other times of the year. She noted that children get an opportunity to come to the hotel along with the employees, where they dine together, play games, dance and exchange gifts. She said that usually before the event, the children get to choose the kind of presents they would want for Christmas, and the hotel buys them and hand them over to the children during the event. A caretaker at Kurasini National Orphanage, Ms Sylivia Nyundo, expressed her heartfelt gratitude to the hotel administration and staff for introducing the valuable program for the orphans to be part of the community and for always opening their arms to other kind of assistance. “The children get to experience the kind of life ordinary kids have, a gesture that has huge a impact in their wellbeing,” said Ms Nyundo. She said that when the children get an opportunity to meet with different people from their care takers and show them affection, it has a great impact in their lives, including healing wounds of not knowing their own identities.