A total of 29.4bn/-will be spent in strategic investment project by Mafia District Council in Coast Region with expectation of generating 102.4bn/-returns in five years’ time. The District Executive Director (DED), Mr Eric Mapunda said this before presenting the project feasibility study to the regional authorities during a recent Regional Consultative Committee (RCC) meeting in K ibaha Town that, the project is intended to be a major economic breakthrough to the council. “We have already sought 4,040 acres of land to develop and establish the investment activities,” he said. Projects intended to be developed in the area include settlements and housing estates, business, sports and recreation, open spaces, industries, small harbour, environment conservation, parks and gardens, Institutions, cultural sites and tourism. Land planning and survey projects will be conducted before selling the plots which already have title deeds to individuals who want to invest in the area, adding that a total of 5, 700 plots will be sold during the exercise. Mr Mapunda said that the proposed investment area known as U tumaini is currently a farm located between the villages of Gongwe and K irongwe which has mangoes, coconut and other trees. “We will use a total of 20bn/- to pay compensations while the other remaining 9.4bn/- will be directed in paying for the survey of the project and for improvement of infrastructures including roads, electricity and water. The proposed area has clean, attractive beaches and very good scenery." "It has also passable roads, electricity and clean underground water. There are also several swamps in which animals like hippopotamus are found. The people of Mafia are going to benefit from this project through accessing institutional services, getting temporary and permanent employment in different sectors, buying plots which are already surveyed, changing their mindsets on the whole issue of development, having a wider range of recreational activities and others." The Coast Regional Commissioner (RC), Evarist Ndikilo commended the council for the remarkable step it has taken and come up with the strategic project plan which will largely contribute to the council’s economy and the nation as well. “We must support our fellows in Mafia bearing the fact that they are living in the area which has a lot of challenges mainly due to its geographical position. They are still seeking this money and once they secure the project will start,” he noted. After being reviewed and discussed by the RCC the proposal will be submitted to the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government, the Ministry of Land, Housing and Settlement and to the National Treasury Office for further actions.