KAGERA region’s residents should tap economic benefits due to its geographic location. Kagera Region shares borders with four East African Community (EAC) nations-Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya across Lake Victoria. Industry and Trade Minister, Innocent Bashungwa reiterated the commitment of the government of rehabilitating and expansion of several airports including Bukoba Airport and building a new ship along Lake Victoria. The government is keen to improve the infrastructure like roads and bridges especially along border regions including Kagera Region. This would attract investment opportunities including foreign markets. The roads will also ease transport of people and goods. Completion of the projects will enhance economic and social development. This would invite investors to contribute in industrialization through modern agriculture, a key priority for the fifth phase government under President Magufuli. Industries that produce goods for mass consumption such as clothes, textiles and edibles are highly encouraged. President Magufuli’s administration has embraced industrialisation as part of the panacea for unemployment among the youths because industrialization drive was expected to be one of the significant remedies by creating thousands of job opportunities across the country. Without an efficient industrial base, the country’s economy can hardly develop and create job opportunities. Industries have great potential of creating jobs and attracting capital, skills and knowledge. Mr Bashungwa assured farmers in the country of getting attractive prices noting that coffee, tea, bananas, cassava and groundnuts were among crops in high demand in several foreign markets including China and Indonesia. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa invited investors both local and foreign to invest in Kagera Region by constructing medium and large processing industries due to its conducive environment and political tranquility. He explained that Kagera was strategically located sharing borders with four countries-Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya across Lake Victoria with a population market of 190 million. Equally, he challenged Tanzanians to grab investment opportunities in Great Lakes regions especially in hospitality industry. Traders especially on border regions like Kagera, Geita, Mwanza, Simiyu, Mara and Kigoma should forge close links and make regular visits in neighbouring countries. Premier Majaliwa made the remarks while opening Kagera Investment Week in Bukoba Municipal Council. He noted that the upgrading of Ibanda, Rumanyika and Burigi Chato National Parks was a golden opportunity where Tanzanians can benefit through construction of five star hotels. Private sector is encouraged to exploit opportunities offered through the East African Community (EAC) common markets. As an agriculture-based economy, private sector should tap on this to fulfill President Magufuli’s vision to make Tanzania a middleincome economy by 2025. Tourism earnings have increased to 5.29tri/-(2,405.1 million US dollars) in the period ended February this year up from 4.63tri/-(2,108.3 million US dollars) of the corresponding period 2016 due to rising tourist arrivals. The agricultural sector can play a crucial role in the rehabilitation process of the country’s economy. Exploration of fertile areas and conducting research on what types of crops can be produced in such areas for optimum production is the only way of achieving self-sufficiency in food and earning substantial foreign exchange. Indonesia Ambassador to Tanzania, Prof Ratian Pardebe expressed his country’s readiness to invest in several key areas including agro-processing, mining, tourism and infrastructure. He informed Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Marco Gaguti that his country was keen to cooperate and promote trade relations with Tanzania. A team of Tanzanian entrepreneurs have also been invited to visit Jakarta in the third week of February, nest year. We are also looking possibility of establishing a tin smelter in Kagera Region, he said. Mr Gaguti explained that the region has all sorts of valuable minerals including gold (Biharamulo), Nickel (Ngara and Muleba), Cobalt, and Tin (Kyerwa), which can be used in many industries as raw material, and with the fifth phase government stressing on industrialisation, in turn offer a good opportunity for a serious investor to exploit. During his recent visit in Kagera Region Prof Pardebe also visited Kyerwa District which has large deposits of TIN minerals. Relations between the two countries are mostly in agriculture sector, where Indonesia provides training for Tanzanian farmers. Tanzania has blooming business opportunities in agriculture supported with vast arable land, favourable climate that in turn supports all sorts of crops to grow. The country’s infrastructures are growing to cope up with growing economies, population and industrialisation. This is an area a serious investor should take time to invest. In 2011 both countries established the Indonesia- Tanzania Joint Agriculture Cooperation Committee (JACC), as a vehicle to improve agricultural sector cooperations, such as capacity building through training, joint research, and the expansion of market access to agricultural products. With a population of 257 million people, Indonesia’s economy is the largest in Southeast Asia and is one of the emerging economies of the world.