MINISTER for Works, Communications and Transport, Engineer Isaack Kamwelwe, has appealed to Tanzanians to grab attractive investment opportunities by increasing production, to enable the nation get raw materials needed for its industrialisation drive. Engineer Kamwele made the appeal on Thursday while inspecting ongoing works on the 18-km tarmac road and the 140-metres bridge linking Kagera sugar factory to neigbouring villages. The project is being undertaken at a cost of 25bn/-. He assured residents of the lake regions of Mwanza, Kagera and Mara that transport blues that were experienced during the past five to ten years would soon be a matter of history. He reiterated the commitment of the government to rehabilitate and expand several airports, including Bukoba Airport and build a new ship to operate in Lake Victoria. “The fifth phase government under President John Magufuli is determined to improve infrastructure like roads and bridges, especially along border regions including Kagera Region. This would attract investment opportunities that include foreign markets. The roads will also ease human and goods’ transportation. “Completion of the project will enhance economic and social development. This would attract investors to participate actively in the industrialization drive through modern agriculture, which is a key priority for the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli. Industries that produce goods for mass consumption such as clothes, textiles and edibles are highly encouraged. “President Magufuli’s administration has embraced industrialisation as part of the solution for unemployment among the youth, because the industrialisation drive is expected to be one of the significant solutions by creating thousands of job opportunities across the country, “he said. He noted that without an efficient industrial base, the country’s economy could hardly develop and create job opportunities. Plus, industries have great potential of creating jobs and attracting capital, skills and knowledge...industrialisation is the way to prosperity... national development cannot be imported, it must come from within, he said. Minister Kamwelwe explained that the government was keen to ensure that by 2021, production of sugar reached 450,000 tonnes, noting that the commodity was being produced by three major companies-Kagera Sugar, Mtibwa Sugar and TPCMoshi. Kagera Sugar Managing Director, Nassor Seif informed him that currently, the company was producing about 90,000 tonnes of sugar. “We have plans to double production to 180,000 tonnes within the next five years. Smallholder farmers will also produce about 90,000 tonnes thus making total production 270,000 tonnes,” he said. Earlier, while opening the 13th National Tanroads Workers’ Council meeting held in Bukoba Municipality, Minister Kamwelwe, appealed to engineers under Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads) to be diligent and supervise the procurement exercise closely.