AS East African Countries set to review the Inter- Parliament Games from next year, there is call for member countries to give more priority to golf as it is a diplomatic game that can strengthen the community. Tanzania Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation Damas Ndumbaro said during the second round of the golf event at Entebbe golf club here that EAC should move stronger through sports. "Let us move stronger as East Africa members, therefore to me if you are competing once a year is not enough, we need to double it especially for golf." Ndumbaro said that they need to integrate more as East Africans through sports and golf should be among the top priorities. "Through such event and others make East Africans very close and stronger, sports also strengthen the integration." Ndumbaro, who features for East African Legislative Assembly (EALA), is among the players who play more than two sports. Apart from golf, he also represented his team in volleyball, basketball and soccer. Ugandan golfer MP Sarah Kityo, who also plays netball and volleyball said: "We share a lot in golf, is not like netball where one can run and rush, and in golf we talk and interact which is a good thing." "Golf is a game that can unite East Africa, because golf encourages friendship, cooperation and teamwork, we are very happy we East Africans are one despite competing against each other," added a Kenyan MP, Abshiro Halake. Ugandan MP Ondoga Otto appealed for MPs to take up the game seriously. Each team is meant to have had at least four players to compete in the team event. Kenyan team emerged the men’s winner after returning aggregate 198 stable ford points. Kenya fielded ten golfers, while hosts Uganda fielded four golfers. They finished second with 147 points while Tanzania with two golfers; Peter Serukamba and Nape Nnauye carded aggregates 59 points from two rounds to finish third. Ndumbaro, the only EALA golfer returned with 27 points to finish fourth while Burundi failed to enter a single player. In women's category Uganda with three golfers, carded aggregate 160 points to win the title, while Tanzania and Burundi did not field any player. This year’s event that winds up tomorrow has included soccer, basketball, netball, volleyball, athletics, tug-of-war, darts and golf.