THE Court of Appeal has dismissed Savings and Finance Commercial Bank Limited’s appeal to challenge the decision of the High Court (Commercial Division) to refund over 66m/-to Bidco Oil and Soap Limited paid as a wharfage charge of goods. Justices; Sivangilwa Mwangesi, Mwanaisha Kwariko and Rehema K erefu ruled in favour of Bidco Company after finding that the grounds of appeal the bank, lately known as NIC Bank Tanzania Limited, had lodged lacked legal merits. “There is nothing to fault in the analysis made and applied by the trial Judge. It is our holding that the appeal, which has been preferred by the appellant herein, is without any founded basis and it has to fail. We, accordingly, dismiss it and direct the respondents, to have their costs,” they declared. From the evidence on record, the justices noted, there was no dispute to the fact that a genuine 66,414,835/-cheque drawn in favour of the Tanzania Harbour Authority (THA) was presented at the appellant bank. They said having being cleared at the Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the cheque’s proceeds were paid to K. J. Telecommunication, who was not the intended payee. There was further evidence to establish that, the THA, who happened to be the payee of the cheque, had no account with the appellant bank. The Justices noted further that transactions pertaining to the cheque alleged to have been swapped with that from Barclays Bank, which was said to have been drawn by Manyata Investment, were not made known to the court. “In the circumstances, it could not affirmatively be argued by the appellant that, there was exercise of care and due diligence in the discharge of its duties,” the Justices said. There was an issue on whether the trial Judge erred in exonerating both respondents from liability in the instant appeal. The basis of the complaint is founded on the findings by the learned trial Judge that there was collusion perpetrated by employees from the parties to this appeal. In their judgment delivered recently, the Justices were of the view that even if it were to be believed that there was indeed some collusion among the employees of the parties to this appeal, that it was discernible, still the same had nothing to do with the respondents. “What appears to be evident to us is the fact that the collusion if any, was either facilitated by the appellant, or was made possible from a conducive environment found in the appellant’s workplace,” they said. It all started with a bill of wharfage charges, totalling 66,414,835/-, which Bidco Oils, had to pay to the THA for release of its goods. To clear the bill, Bidco Company instructed its banker, Barclays Bank, to issue a banker’s cheque for the claimed 66,414,835/-in favour of the THA. The drawn cheque was then handed over to Trans Africa Forwarders Limited, who happened to be the clearing agent of Bidco Company, who in turn presented it to the appellant for clearance. In the process, Bidco Company’s goods were released. It is also on record that even though the THA had no bank account with the appellant still the latter proceeded to clear the cheque from Barclays Bank. After the lapse of about two months, Bidco Company came to learn that its wharfage bills at the THA were still not cleared. To avoid legal action being taken against it, the company rushed to pay the pending charges to the THA. Thereafter, it initiated investigation regarding its previous payment, which culminated in the institution of civil proceedings against the appellant, claiming to be refunded the money it had paid earlier.