THIS is my last sports column this year, and that being the case, I would like to wish my esteemed readers a happy and prosperous new year. For me, this has been a very difficult and challenging year and my only hope is that the New Year, 2020 would be better than what we had in the year that was. I’m saying for me because everyone has had his own challenges. I cannot, therefore, talk for others because not all had a difficult and challenging year. However, problems notwithstanding, we must all thank the Almighty God firstly, for His continued love for us and secondly, for choosing and giving us life. We must sincerely thank the Almighty God because if He had not created us in His Image, we would not have been human beings! Having said that, let’s look at the year that was, 2019. Like the year before, 2018, we did not excel in sports. Perhaps the only achievement we can talk of was Taifa Stars’ qualification in the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon), which was hosted by Egypt in June this year. Yes, we qualified for the Afcon finals, but we did not do well in the tournament. In fact, if anything, we performed worse than what we had done when we first qualified for the Afcon tournament Lagos, Nigeria in 1980. During our first qualification for the Afcon finals, we returned home with one point after drawing with Ivory Coast and going down against the hosts, Nigeria by 0-3 and lost to Egypt by 1-2. During our second Afcon qualification in Cairo this year we lost all our three group matches against Algeria, Senegal and our neighbours, Kenya. With the exception of Hassan Mwakinyo in professional boxing, we had nothing to show off but continuous, endless defeats. Whether it was in athletics, netball, basketball or football, the song was the same, defeats after defeats and we continued, as usual, to come up with a series of excuses. Now that was 2019, the year that was. We now need to work, for the 2020 year. Of course, we are not going to win anything in the New Year, 2020. But we need to start planning for 2021 from onwards. It’s important to use the New Year, 2020, for planning the way forward for our different sports disciplines because you cannot win in the present, modern sports without planning. All our sports associations from football to athletics and from netball to basketball, from hockey to cricket, you name it, need to sit down and plan for next decade. If we don’t do that, then we will continue our role of a mad man’s head, as once said by the second phase President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, who likened our sports performance to the head of the mad man in which others used to in order to become barbers. Indeed, when we look back to our poor performance in the Egypt Afcon in Cairo in June this year, we lost all our three matches including that derby against Kenya. Through our defeat, we provided Kenya with a record of winning at least a match and getting, in the process, three points in the Afcon tournament. When Kenyans review the year that was, 2019, in football they would say they did not only qualify for the 2019 Egypt Afcon, but they also won one match in the group stages of the tournament against Tanzania. And, just as what President Ali Hassan Mwinyi had said during his tenure, we provided Kenya with our head (a mad man’s head) so that Kenya could learn how to shave and become an accomplished barber. Now if we don’t want to continue to serve as ladders for others, including nondescript teams like Kenya, then we need to use the new, coming year for sports planning. In football, sports planning involve working towards establishing soccer academies. And, this should involve our top flight clubs, businessmen and women and schools, both public and private. We need to establish academies not only for soccer, but also for other sports disciplines including basketball, athletics and so on and so forth. Our schools, both public and privately owned need to be turned into centres for sports training. Concentration in academics is good, but we also need to include serious sports training. But serious sports training, especially for kindergarten and primary school level, can only be realised if we have the right crop of sports instructors and here is where the government needs to be closely involved. Just as it trains teachers, the government needs to start training sports instructors for various sports disciplines. That is what the first phase administration of the founding father, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere had done and that is how this country had had people like Dr Lawrence Gama, Paul West Gwivaha, Syllersaid Mziray and Joel Bendera all of whom have already passed on. Boxing seems to be attracting many young Tanzanians and we all know who are global boxing nations, Eastern Europe and Cuba. If this country has had, for many years, Cuban doctors through some cultural agreements between the two countries, why not use the same cultural agreements in sending would be boxing instructors to Cuba for training? • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@ yahoo.co.uk