THE Minister for Water, Professor Makame Mbarawa, has expressed dismay over failure by a probe team to submit findings of all water projects contracted to Felix Lwoya. He is the former Director for Fally Enterprises Ltd based in Sumbawanga, Rukwa Region. Prof Mbarawa said he formed a probe team in October this year to conduct a comprehensive investigation of all water projects which had been contracted to Fally Enterprises Ltd. He was upset to learn, however, that, the probe had been completed but the team of experts had not submitted a report on the issue to him. “It is very shocking and disheartening to discover that even before the investigation report has been submitted officially to me, the Director of Fally Enterprises Ltd (Lwoya) has started communicating with senior officials of Rukwa Water and Sanitation Authority (RUWASA) and other senior government officials; He lobbied to have me discuss the issue with him But I declined,” the minister explained. The vividly annoyed the minister warned RU WASA and government officials to refrain from holding discussions with the Fally Enterprises Ltd Director until he had read the investigation findings and given his opinions on the matter. Minister Mbarawa’s remarks were made after he had concluded a two-day working tour of Rukwa Region. The Acting Rukwa Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Ms Winnie Kijazi, briefed the minister that the probe team he had formed had concluded its findings on time. “Even the RAS (Bernard Makali) instructed the probe team to submit the findings to you (Prof Mbarawa ) as soon as possible,” she explained. She also told the minister that Lwoya had sought an audience with the RAS but the latter declined, maintaining that permission had to be granted by the minister. Prof Mbarawa characterized the Director of Fally Enterprises Ltd as a kingmaker as he was contracted to undertake nearly all water projects in Rukwa Region. “He (Lwoya) has now been de-registered from the Engineers registration Board (ERB),“ added Prof Mbarawa . “The Fally Enterprises Ltd Director has been barred from being a director of any construction company in the country for two years,” the minister further explained. While addressing a public rally at Laela township in Sumbawanga District Council on October 6, this year, President John Magufuli denounced shoddy water projects, directing stern measures to be taken against the the director of Fally Enterprises Limited. The Head of State directed Minister Mbarawa to form a probe team of experts to investigate all water projects which had been contracted to Fally Enterprises Ltd and fresh evaluations including unfinished projects, to be conducted.