...150bn/- projects put TZ at realms of marine business in Great Lakes THE execution of 150bn/- worth projects, involving construction of a megaship, a slipway and the revival of two vessels at Mwanza South Port will tackle transportation distress experienced by the Lake Zone Region over the past 23 years. Equally, upon completion the project is sought to place Tanzania in the realms of the marine business across the Great Lakes Region, President John Magufuli said yesterday. He made the remarks while addressing a crowd, which had gathered to witness yet another great infrastructure milestone as the Head-of-State laid the foundation stone of the project in Nyamagana District in Mwanza Region, yesterday. The mega ship ‘MV Mwanza- Hapa Kazi Tu’ with the capacity to carry 1,200 passengers, 400 tonnes of cargo, 20 small vehicles and three trucks, is expected to cost US Dollars 39m ( about 89.7bn/- ). Whereas, the capacity of MV Victoria is 1,200 passengers, 200 tonnes of cargo whilst MV Butiama has the capacity of 200 passengers and 100 tonnes of cargo. “In total, these make up 2,600 passengers and 700 tones, therefore the completion of the project will not only end transport woes in the Lake Zone but also in the neighbouring countries like Kenya and Uganda which depend on this mode of transportation...meaning a boost in the economy,” said the President. President Magufuli once again appeared to commend the country’s taxpayers as he revealed that the financing of the project was made possible by all Tanzanians, insisting the entire project was domestically funded. “I am only a leader who is supervising the execution but you the people of Tanzania have decided to move things instead of waiting for assistance,” he said amidst cheers from the crowd. He argued that anti-graft measures were bearing fruits with the available resources towards development projects. The project had been delayed for 23 years as the country kept praying for donors to come and offer assistance, but eventually the current regime opted for plan B. President said it could have taken another 100 years for the project’s execution had the government maintained reliance on the donors’ support. When making the pledge during his election campaigns in 2015, the President was not even certain how he was going to raise the funds to bankroll the project, he admitted, noting however that everything looked possible upon assuming the presidency. President Magufuli said when he took over the office he realised the country was more than capable of financing its major projects including the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway and Nyerere Hydropower Project, both underway at the tune of 7trl/- and 6.5trl/- respectively. The President reaffirmed his zero tolerance to corruption, and vowed to deal perpendicularly with corrupt individuals sustainably as he is determined to ensure the country’s abundant resources benefit all Tanzanians. Dr Magufuli said some unscrupulous individuals would dare to sabotage the country for mere personal gains, giving an example of the Kilimanjaro Railway line which for 26 years was non operational until it was revived recently. Deliberate lack of proper planning rather than financial constraints hampered railways services from Dar es Salaam to Arusha, the President said. He was of the opinion that the scourge of road accidents persistent during end-of-theyear festive period in the Dar- Arusha route could have been avoided had the railway transport been maintained and developed. Dr Magufuli admitted that the country failed to set up pri- orities in pursuit of true development of the country and its people, arguing there was insufficient funding around strategic areas. The President assured that the cargo train from Dar es Salaam to Arusha would soon resume services, noting the rehabilitation of the railway line is going on and once complete the rail freight transport will be reinstated. Dr Magufuli applauded the key players; the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) under the management of the Director General Mr Masanja Kadogosa, the Chief Executive Officer of Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL), Mr Eric Hamis and the Tanzania Ports Authority for embarking on major improvements to ensure the transportation sector is fully functional. The President expressed dismay on the preceding poor performance of the MSCL under the previous administration, the company maintain only one ship of 14 vessels, coupled with persistent financial crisis. The coming of Mr Hamis has apparently transformed things, with the company’s revenues going up, enabling it to foot employees’ salaries, something the previous management couldn’t do.