AZ AM FC skipper Aggrey Morris said abrupt change of fixture in the Mainland Premier League, was the main reason behind his side’s 2-2 stalemate against JKT Tanzania on Sunday. Played at Azam Complex in the city, the hosts were deprived crucial points plus a possible chance to venture into the top three of the league ladder as they now cling on the fourth slot with 20 points from ten matches. Azam had to come from behind twice to level the score sheet and earn a point in the end. The visitors took the lead in the 14th minute via Edward Songo before Morris equalised in the 79th minute from a spot kick. However, former Coastal Union, Simba SC and Singida United striker Daniel Lyanga netted a second goal for JKT Tanzania in the 86th minute, which was answered back two minutes later by Iddi Suleiman. The ‘Ice-cream makers’ have since won six matches, lost two and posted two draws respectively with their previous match at Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza versus Alliance FC ending in a resounding 5-0 win in a favour of the former. It was the biggest win margin so far in the league for Azam as the other team which has managed to score five goals is Lipuli FC, who pounded Singida United 5-1 early in November this year. Speaking after the game, Morris said they were told late about the adjustment of starting time of the game, which initially, was set to kick off from 7:00pm. “We were training hard knowing that the match would start at 7:00pm as planned but over sudden, we were told that it has been rescheduled to begin at 4:00pm. That decision affected us psychologically because we were not ready to play at that time,” he said. He added that whenever Azam is about to catch up the top teams at the summit of the table, people try every means to prevent them from doing so. Commenting on the draw, the defender said it was not friendly for them as they wanted to bag all three points to continue climbing up the league table. On his part, JKT Tanzania player Damas Makwaya said scoring two goals against Azam at their own yard was a big achievement for them. “As you know, football is unpredictable. We committed mistakes which gave our opponents an opportunity to punish us. The most important thing is to continue training ahead of other upcoming games,” Makwaya remarked.