TANZANIA Bureau of Standards (TBS) has revealed that six out of the bureau’s eight laboratories have obtained international accreditation. TBS Director General, Dr Ngenya Athuman disclosed this on Wednesday in Dar es Salaam when briefing on the bureau’s achievements during the past four years under fifthphase government. Part of the bureau’s successes is the construction of a new state-of-the-art building which houses eight laboratories for testing and calibration. Dr Athuman said the accreditation is a validation of the bureau’s ability to deliver safe food products while meeting the highest possible standards, both domestically and internationally, in the quality of its laboratory testing results. He said it reinforces TBS’ continued commitment to industry- leading products quality and safety, adding that products which have been certified by the bureau can be consumed domestically and internationally. According to the TBS Director General, the laboratories which have acquired the international accreditation include construction, food, chemicals (petroleum and oil), calibration and electrical engineering. The international accreditation signifies that the TBS is being held to the highest of standards put in place by the international community and will likely stimulate the exportation of goods. Dr Athuman said the new building is going to improve performance and address the shortage of enough laboratories and storage spaces in their daily operations. In 2018, the government authorized the construction of eight-storey building, which houses eight ultra-modern labs --a move aimed at improving the bureau’s efficiency by reducing the time for sample testing from seven days to one. Dr Athuman observed that for the past 30 years the bureau has been operating in small cottages constructed by Swiss people. He added the limited space hampered their performance arguing that the nature of TBS’ work required ample spacing. “The building is complete and now we have started moving in equipment and samples… by January services will be offered there,” said Dr Athuman. In another development, the DG identified peripheral regions particularly Lake Zone and Central Zone regions as leaders in importation and smuggling of substandard goods, especially sugar and cosmetics. He noted that the bureau has been taking to task importers and dealers of substandard and counterfeit products, with the culprits often ordered to destroy the products on their costs and whenever the bureau administers the exercise, the offender must pay allocated fee. On the other side, Dr Athuman revealed that the TBS has secured quality machines that will be used to test the quality and standard of motorcycle helmets in an effort to detect and take out of the market counterfeit helmets. The TBS Director General was also quizzed over the presence in second hand clothing markets of undergarments despite the ban imposed on the items. “The bureau in collaboration with other authorities has devised a plan to completely take out the markets used undergarments,” he said, warning importers of the items of the impending legal consequences. The DG admitted that with a staffing of 4 7 8, it’s difficult to embark on daily crackdowns in the markets to nab the culprits but pledged to do whatever in their power to curb the problem.