THE National Bank of Commerce (NBC) will organise a bid farewell to lucky winners of ‘Ibuka Kidedea na NBC malengo account who won tourism trips to Serengeti National Parks and Seychelles. Ibuka Kidedea is a deposit campaign aimed at stimulating saving culture to its customers whereby various prizes are to be won including motorbikes and holiday trips. The NBC Head of Retail Banking, Elibariki Masuke commended all customers who participated in the bank’s malengo account campaign that was officially launched in October this year. “The Ibuka Kidedea was done with great success as we have noted a significant turnout of our esteemed customers into this campaign, on the other hand customers have realised growth of their deposits through monthly interest earned” he said. The NBC Brand and Communications Manager, David Raymond said that it is NBC’s objective to enable and inspire customers to have a sustainable culture of saving in the realm of meeting their financial objectives and most importantly attaining their financial freedom. “We encourage our existing customers and potential customers to use NBC malengo account in fulfilling their dreams, whether it owns house, a nice car, motorcycle, going for family vacation, paying school fees and many more. “We know everyone has a dream, open NBC malengo account and we will be happy to enable you fulfilling your dreams”, he concluded. The NBC’s Marketing Manager, Alina Kimaryo said that Ibuka Kidedea campaign has been giving out prizes every month and so far five Yamaha (bodaboda) have been won since October 2019. For a customer to stand a chance of winning a Yamaha motorbike (Bodaboda) a minimum deposit of 100,000/-, for Serengeti trip a minimum of 1m/- and 50m/-for a Seychelles trip. “Together with the mentioned prizes, in this campaign customers who make a cash deposit of 1m/- to their malengo account stand a chance to win a three-wheel motorcycle (Toyo) in a grand draw through which a total of three Toyo will be won,” she said. A winner of a motorcycle (bodaboda), a retiree David Patrick Majani, resident of Tabata Segerea, Dar es Salaam, said his newly won bodaboda will be used to generate income but also as a means of transport facilitate his business activities. The winners of a trip to Seychelles are Mr Wambura John Wambura from Tarime, Mara, Ramadhan Saidi, Lettice Rutashobya and Sylvester Ambokile both from Dar es Salaam who won the trip to Seychelles. Winners who won trip to Serengeti national park trip are Mr Christopher Mgote from Nzega, Mr Makongoro Makongoro from Arusha, Ms Jocelyine Rwechungura and Ms Esther Ndunguru both from Dar es Salaam.