AS part of its corporate social responsibility, TTCL Corporation staff yesterday donated blood to support the National Blood Programme intended to bolster the blood bank and save more lives. The state-owned telecom company initiative, TTCL Corporation, comes at the right time as the country was in acute shortage of blood and for example Muhimbili National Hospital was up to yesterday morning with 15 units of blood only against demand of 150 to 180 units of blood daily. The TTCL Corporation, Director General, Waziri Kindamba said at the event in Dar es Salaam that the telecom firm planned to collect some 250 units of blood. Mr Kindamba said the decision to donate blood is aimed at not only giving back to the community but above all saving lives of people in need of blood. “The act of donating blood goes beyond mere charity maintaining adequate blood supply in our community for blood transfusions for patients,” he said. For years TTCL has been offering various items to various communities in need at year end festive seasons but the act of donating blood this year will assure and save a number of lives. TTCL DG said the act of donating blood is complimenting the company’s success story registered this year in terms of sales revenue and profit because it works in the community and its surroundings. “I urge other organisations and Tanzanians to support the National Blood Programme to donate blood in order to address the shortage and save more lives,” he emphasised. Also as the exercise of SIM Card registration nears an end, the TTCL boss said the company offices will be open throughout these festive seasons in order to meet the deadline. An official with the Blood Bank from Muhimbili National Hospital, John Bigambalaye said Tanzanians should understand that donating blood was important in saving lives. “There is acute shortage of blood at Muhimbili National Hospital and up to this morning (yesterday) there were only 15 units of blood compared to the daily demand of about 150 to 180 units of blood."  