YOUNG writers have been urged to take advantage of the Franco-Jeune Festival to showcase their talents in both Kiswahili and French languages. This was said by the Director of Culture in area of event and books from Mayotte, Alain Henry during the 16th Franco-Jeune Festival closed on Saturday at the Alliance Française of Dar es Salaam. The festival brought together young writers from Mozambique, Comoros, Djibouti, Tanzania, Madagascar and Mayotte. Henry said that the festival has helped young writers to improve their communicating skills, a vehicle for sharing and thinking together for their future through writing, poems and narration of stories. “We are organizing the 16th edition festival of Franco-Jeune here in Tanzania for the first time. Young writers from Mayotte, Madagascar, Comoros, Djibouti and Tanzania are together for a week in Dar es Salaam. We promote French language and exchange knowledge among young people to help them be competent in speaking and writing French,” he said. For her part, the Executive Director from SOMA Institute, Demere Kitunga said that Tanzania is a member of the Franco-Jeune which its main objective is to shape young people to be competent in expressing their views through poems and story writing. “We are using French and Kiswahili in this edition here in Dar es Salaam. This is very interesting in our festival. We need these young writers to share their knowledge and talents. Bety Richard from Tanzania said that her expectation is to learn French culture and sharing experiences on how to use French in writing poems and stories. YOUNG writers have been urged to take advantage of the Franco-Jeune Festival to showcase their talents in both Kiswahili and French languages. This was said by the Director of Culture in area of event and books from Mayotte, Alain Henry during the 16th Franco-Jeune Festival closed on Saturday at the Alliance Française of Dar es Salaam. The festival brought together young writers from Mozambique, Comoros, Djibouti, Tanzania, Madagascar and Mayotte. Henry said that the festival has helped young writers to improve their communicating skills, a vehicle for sharing and thinking together for their future through writing, poems and narration of stories. “We are organizing the 16th edition festival of Franco-Jeune here in Tanzania for the first time. Young writers from Mayotte, Madagascar, Comoros, Djibouti and Tanzania are together for a week in Dar es Salaam. We promote French language and exchange knowledge among young people to help them be competent in speaking and writing French,” he said. For her part, the Executive Director from SOMA Institute, Demere Kitunga said that Tanzania is a member of the Franco-Jeune which its main objective is to shape young people to be competent in expressing their views through poems and story writing. Bety Richard from Tanzania said that her expectation is to learn French culture and sharing experiences on how to use French in writing poems and stories.