WITH only a week to close 2019 year, Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) says it has recorded remarkable achievements within 14 years by controlling education quality in the country, especially now that the State gears to attain an industrial economy by 2025. Making the observation here yesterday, the Commission’s Executive Secretary, Professor Charles Kihampa further said that some of their achievements include accreditation of academic programmes. “The Commission among other things is mandated to ensure that all programmes pursued at the Universities are validated and meet the required standards. Any university institution wishing to offer a new curriculum or wishing to revise the existing curricula must submit its curricula to TCU for accreditation purposes,” said Prof Kihampa. However, he said that the commission would maintain, improve and enhance the achievements, while being guided by its mission and vision. “With these 14 years of achievements we pay tribute to the government of Tanzania, International Organisations and all stakeholders in the education sector for their continued cooperation and support, which have ensured that students of higher learning institution receive the best quality education to enhance the country, realize its dream of becoming a middle income country by 2025. “What TCU has achieved since 2005 to-date has been as is a result of this cooperation and support… the commission, therefore, as it has been all the time, pledges to maintain high standard services offer, which meet both private and public higher education institutions,” he added. To date, the commission has registered 49 university institutions, 34 being privately owned and 15 being public and meet all prerequisite qualities and standards as per the Universities Act, according to statistics from TCU. TCU has been striving to improve professionalism without compromising the institutions’ education quality, showing its ability to consistently provide services, which meet public needs in line with statutory and regulatory requirements.