NO sooner had the maiden Tanzania Railways Corporation’s (TRC) train arrived in Moshi from Dar es Salaam on Saturday, than its tickets sold out. TRC’s management attributed the ‘disappearance of the tickets’ to the public’s reception towards that revived route, which comes at an opportune time as the festive season looms large. According to TRC Board Secretary Ms Hawa Mwenda, all the 48-seat second-class (sleeping) tickets and 60 second-class (sitting) tickets had been sold out even before the coach arrived in Moshi on Saturday. “Going with the sold-out tickets, you can easily tell how massive the reception of the new route was,” said the TRC official yesterday. She further revealed that the corporation was awed by the public’s positive response to the passenger’s route which is making a comeback after a 25-year hiatus. According to Ms Mwenda, most traders plying between Dar es Salaam and the northern zone have already expressed their desire to use the TRC wagons’ services to transport their goods including agricultural products. The traders, she said, were optimistic that using TRC wagons would help them avoid the challenges they face when using road transport to move their cargo. Speaking shortly after the arrival of the passengers train in Moshi, TRC Board Chairman Prof John Kondoro described the maiden trip as a trial one to assess the passengers’ demand for rail services. “This is our first trip, you cannot determine the market’s demand by doing only one trip or two; we are now on a trial, will continue for several times and in all seasons round to assess the actual demands of the passengers train services and this will give us a clear picture of what to do when we go full swing,’’ said Prof Kondoro. Prof Kondoro said the train which arrived in Moshi railway station safely on Saturday with more than 260 passengers on board, consisted of nine carriage units, of which he said included seven passengers’ coaches of various classes, one cargo wagon and one food wagon. “These infrastructures were last used more than 30 years ago, therefore we must be careful, because as far as we are concerned, passengers’ safety comes first,” he said. The train arrived in Moshi town at about 11 am whereby hundreds of citizens; apart from those who went to welcome their guests, most of them went to witness the resumption of the passenger train service between Moshi and Dar es Salaam, after it was suspended for more than 30 years ago. The revival of the passengers and cargo train services will go a long way towards easing the transportation demands in northern corridor, where road transportation often experience excruciating traffic. TRC has set affordable fares, with the Dar-Moshi fares starting from as lowly as 16,500/- (thirdclass coach), 23,500 (second class seating) and 39,100/- for second class sleeping coach.