WORLD Wildlife Fund (WWF) Tanzania in partnership with Vodacom Tanzania are implementing a one-year environmental conservation project that is aimed at making Dodoma Region become a green city. Seen as implementing the fifth phase government directive of protecting the country’s capital environment, they would ensure that the city becomes attractive and habitable. Speaking on the campaign, WWF Tanzania Coordinator, Savinus Kessy said the project aims at improving environment in the region as a ‘Government City,’ where several trees would be planted and gardens set up. Mr Kessy noted that recently the teams visited the famous Chang’ombe market for cleanliness purpose and later joined by the public including the businesspeople around. “We decided to come up with this project to ensure that Dodoma maintains its city status… by remaining green all the times,’’ he said, adding: “In this project, we work closely with the Vice- President’s Office (VPO). We also educate and train communities on how to come up with alternative bags, which are friendly to the environment when they want to carry things.” Despite the cleanliness exercise conducted at the Chang’ombe market, the campaigners further asked the communities to put discarded things in the rubbish cans. On their part, Vodacom Tanzania Manager for Grants and Communications, Sandra Osward said that the project kicked off in Dodoma to demonstrate to the public that collaboration was important in any community scheme. She said the project would later be rolled out in other regions in the country, noting: “The project will come in three phases, where the first comes to an end in March, 2020. After that we shall proceed to the next phase in scheduled regions, because this is a three-year period project.” Commenting, Dodoma City Council Environmental Officer, Ally Mfinanga said cleanliness is important in the city’s market(s) in an attempt to keep off unnecessary diseases. “I would only call upon fellow Tanzanians to obey government’s directive to clean their business areas every Saturday in every month,” he added.