UHURU International Beach Volleyball Open Championship that was scheduled to start yesterday at the Mbalamwezi Beach Hotel in Dar es Salaam has been rescheduled. Organisers the Tanzania Amateur Volleyball Association (TAVA) has announced that the championship will now be staged from January 13 to 15th next year at the same venue. TAVA Secretary Alfred Selengia told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ yesterday that apart from shifting the event to January, they have also changed the competition name which will be now known as Nyerere National Tour. He said that the reason behind the postponement of the event was due to the process to register the event and new name at the International Volleyball Federation (FIVB). “We had to register the event to FIVB in order to make it official, we are glad that we succeeded and we will stage the first Nyerere National Tour next January,” he said. Selengia insisted that this will remain as international club event that will draw teams from around the world with the aim to promote the game and give local teams chance to experience international challenge. He noted that since the event will be affiliated to international federation, participating players will also have chance to be registered into Beach Volleyball Information System (BVIF) and win points for the world rankings. He said that they have already sent invitations to East African Community (EAC) member states-- Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. “We have also extended invitation to Zambia, Malawi, Mozambique and DR Congo for them to consider participate in the event which is also designed to honor First Tanzania President Julius Nyerere,” he said. The postponement will see the team battling it out soon after the Africa Zone V Beach Volleyball tournament. The women qualifiers for the 2020 Tokyo, Japan Olympic Games is scheduled to run from January 9 to 12th this year at Mbalamwezi Beach Hotel. He said that Confederation of Africa Volleyball (CAVB) has given Tanzania honor to hosts women’s category Group 6 battle which will include Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and hosts Tanzania. TAVA has already named two national women’s beach volleyball teams which include Jonia Jovin, who will partner Evelyn Albert, while Hellen Richard joins Beatrice Soka in second team. Men teams are David Neeke who plays professional volleyball at Mombasa Prisons of Kenya and his longtime partner Ford Edward, while second team will involve Shukuru Ally and Saidi Alhaj.