RESUMPTION of operations by Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) along the central railway line and the use of ferry wagons in cargo transportation have been cited as the major reasons behind the rise of consignments handled by Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) through its ports in Lake Victoria. Speaking on Thursday to reporters who are currently touring TPA projects in Lake Victoria, Mwanza Port Manager Morris Mchindiuza said an affirmative action being taken by the fifth phase government in reviving and improving railway transport in the country has started restoring the lost glory of ports in Lake Victoria. The port manager, who is also in charge of all other TPA’s ports in Lake Victoria, said as a result of the revival of railway operations and the use of ferry wagons in cargo ferrying, the authority has witnessed an increase of cargo from 129,769 tonnes in 2014/15 financial year to 157,808 tonnes in 2018/19. As a good sign in further cargo increase, the manager said in the first five months of this financial year (2019/20), TPA through its ports in Lake Victoria has so far handled 76,833 tonnes, which is equivalent to 99.14 per cent of the target. “Currently we are doing our best to bring back customers who had left us almost ten years ago and resorted to transport their cargo overland. Thank God our efforts are yielding good results as some have started coming back,” he said. He said the presence of ferry wagons that can now haul cargo to Uganda while in wagons is also a big plus to the TPA. UN organisations such as the W orld Food Programme( W FP) have until recently being using the ferry wagons fully. Local traders who are now using Mwanza ports include GSM, Mount Meru Millers, La Cairo Investment, Aniset Commission and Kagera Sugar. Currently there are two ferry wagons plying on Lake Victoria. One of them that has the capacity to carry 19 wagons, is owned by the state-owned Marine Services Company Limited ( MSCL) while the other, with the capacity to carry 22 wagons, is owned by Uganda Railway Corporation( URC). Operationally, wagons carrying cargo destined for Uganda are hauled from Dar es Salaam Port to Mwanza where they are directly marshalled into the ferry wagons which transport them up to Port B ell in Uganda. Upon arrival at Port B ell, the wagons are again marshalled into the railway stretch up to the final destination. According to Mr Mchindiuza, the increase in cargo in Mwanza ports also brought about positive impact in revenue collection as figures show that TPA collected 1.133 bn/- in 2014/15 financial year but in 2018/19 financial year the revenue soared to 1.422bn/-. In the first five months of the current financial year ( 2019/20), TPA through its Mwanza ports has collected 802.53million/-, an indication that the authority in Lake Z one may perform even better than the previous financial year in terms f revenue collection. He said efforts are still being made so that in the next few years, TPA through Mwanza ports can collect 4bn/- per annum.