AS part of Tanzania Ports Authority ( TPA)’s measures to improve its cargo handling strategies, plans are underway to construct a new dry port at Fela Village in Misungwi District, Mwanza Region, to handle cargo destined for Uganda and Kenya. Speaking to reporters in Mwanza City on Thursday , Mwanza Port Manager, Morris Mchindiuza, who is also in charge of all other ports along Lake Victoria, said the authority had already spent 5.6bn/-in acquiring the area covering 1,178.69 acres, including paying compensations to land owners. He said the next stage was to come up with a land use plan, meaning that the Inland Container Depot (ICD) to be built will involve a location for storing containers, cargo shed or warehouse, offices and pathways. According to Mr Mchindiuza, the idea to build the dry port in Misungwi District is part of the TPA’s plan to decongest Dar es Salaam Port as cargo destined for Uganda and Kenya and some Lake Zone regions such as Shinganya, Mwanza, Kagera,Mara, Geita and Simiyu will be sorted out upon arrival at Dar as Salaam before being directly ferried to Fela ICD. “Given the pace at which the fifth phase government is implementing its ambitious Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) project, TPA, through its Mwanza ports, also strategises on how to maximize its potential. But, even before SGR comes into operations, we, at TPA, are day in day out, working on how to create capacity ahead of demand,” he said. Apart from the envisaged Fela ICD , TPA is also constructing an Inland Container Depot (ICD) at Kwala Village in Kibaha District, Coast Region, a dry port which will play a pivotal role in decongesting Dar es Salaam Port, including reducing traffic on the city’s Mandela and Morogoro roads. With the construction of Kwala ICD in Kibaha and the envisaged Fela dry port in Misungwi, TPA will, in the near future, have four major ICDs, as plans are also underway to have one at Inyala in Mbeya Region. Currently, TPA has an operating dry port at Isaka in Kahama District. Speaking generally on investment in development projects on Lake Victoria ports , Mr Mchindiuza said TPA had spent 16.52bn/-over the past two years. Some of the projects on which the money had been sent include the construction of berths at Lushamba and Ntama ports in Sengerema District, Mwanza Region, construction of berth at Musoma port in Mara Region. According to Mr Mchindiuza, other berths have also been constructed at Nyamirembe Port in Geita Region and Magarini Port in Muleba District, Kagera Region. Other projects implemented in Kagera include the construction of an office building, the passengers’ lounge at Bukoba Port and the link span at Kemondo Port. Speaking on plans to formalize illegal ports, Mr Mchindiuza said efforts were being made to sensitise the public on the effects of such unauthorized ports, including educating them on the legal mandate that TPA has in overseeing their operations. He said local government authorities are also involved in the sensitization process as some of them depend on such ports for revenue collections. According to the manager, they have identified more than 200 illegal ports in Lake Victoria given the huge number of small islands in the water body.