TODAY is a crucial day both for Zanzibar and Tanzania Mainland as their respective senior football teams, Zanzibar Heroes and Kilimanjaro Stars take on Harambee Stars and Sudan respectively in matches that would determine their fate. Kilimanjaro Stars need a win in their final group B match against Sudan at the KCCA Lugogo Stadium in Kampala, Uganda, to confirm their place in the semifinals of the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup. A draw for Kilimanjaro Stars, who have three points from two matches, can as well see them marching to the next round along with Kenya but that would heavily depend on Zanzibar Heroes’ results against the best team in the group, Harambee Stars. If Zanzibar Heroes who have to date secured only one point in as many matches in the group turn tables against Harambee Stars, who lead the group with six points, then that would mark the end of Kilimanjaro Stars in this year’s CECAFA tournament. Therefore, for Kilimanjaro Stars to be assured of proceeding to the next round, they need to beat Sudan today as any result that is less than outright victory would be disastrous for them. Kilimanjaro Stars, who are second to Harambee Stars in the group after edging out Zanzibar Heroes by one goal, should have beaten Harambee Stars to whom they lost by 1-0 in the opening match but disjointed performance let the team down. Going into the match today, Kilimanjaro Stars Head Coach, Juma Mgunda has cautioned his charges to avoid committing silly mistakes against Sudan. The two teams meet to wind up the tournament’s group stage matches with each having equal advantage of progressing further into the next stage. Sudan and Zanzibar Heroes each has one point generated from a 1-1 stalemate when the two teams met in their opening game, while defending champions Kenya, have already qualified into the semifinals courtesy of six points they gained from two matches in group B, winning 1-0 against Kilimanjaro Stars and 2-1 victory over Sudan. Speaking yesterday, Mgunda tasked his players to avoid committing repeated mistakes during the match, while insisting that Sudan is not a team to be undervalued. “Generally, it will be a tough game bearing in mind that we have similar chances to qualify into the next round but, from the training sessions we have had, I am confident that we will win the game,” Mgunda said. He further pointed out that the most important thing is for Tanzanians wherever they are to include the team in their prayers as another way to do well. “As the technical bench, we have done our part, what remains now is for them (players) to put in practice what they have been told,” he said. On his side, Zanzibar Heroes Head Coach Hemed Morocco said morale in his team is convincing prior ahead of their do or die clash against Harambee Stars, who are keen to make three wins in three matches. “We have a difficult match which is the last game for us. At all cost, we need to win to re-ignite our chances of reaching the semis. The availability of our striker Ibrahim Hilika will help to add momentum upfront,” Morocco said. Hilika missed the 1-0 ‘Family Derby’ loss to Kilimanjaro Stars as he was serving one match ban following the red card he was shown late in the match against Sudan, which ended 1-1. Morocco believes that his (Hilika) presence will add something tangible to his side.