NORTHERN safari capital is bracing up to host the second edition of an annual Arusha Automotive Show to be held this weekend. Slated for 7th and 8th December 2019, the exhibition is the nation’s largest outdoor auto show, featuring dozens of vehicle debuts, hassle-free car shopping, free test drives and the latest auto technology and supercars. Organised by the Idea Africa, the Arusha Auto show to be held at Sheikh Amri Abeid stadium at the heart of Arusha city, will attract nearly 5000 people within and outside the Arusha. The Arusha Automotive Show is the largest and comprehensive national outdoor automotive exhibition as it displays wide range of vehicles that includes sports cars, dream cars that are either newly manufactured in the market or have emerged to be leading brands in the market. “The show is so far the largest outdoor exhibition. Its uniqueness and excitement is that it offers a real comprehensive business platform for the automotive industry,” says the Arusha Auto Show Portfolio Director, Augustine Namfua. Mr Namfua says that he is so grateful as the show enjoys a good response from the automotive industry and the general public at large. The show will also display spare parts, Auto insurance, tires, lubricants, batteries, body kits, paint shops, garages and service stations to offer the participants a wide range of knowledge. “I’m so impressed by the overwhelming support from the Arusha City Council, particularly from the Executive Director, Dr Maulid Madeni for the help we have received from his office in making sure the event is successful” Mr Namfua explains. The auto exhibition is also a family friendly event as there will be a space for families to get together for snacks and beverages, designated kids play zone with toy cars, jumping castles, trampolines, and general music entertainment among others. “This event provides commercial vehicle operators with far greater choice than any other exhibition serving the industry,” he notes. As to why Arusha, the organiser says the city not only boasts accommodating fast growing middle class population, but also enjoys ever-increasing and remarkable interests on modern, classics and vintage cars. Commenting the Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (TATO)’s Chief executive officer, Sirili Akko says the Arusha Auto Show comes at the right moment as the city, billed as the pearl of country’s tourism and diplomatic activities, needs such events to stimulate the local economy. “I’m sure Arusha Auto show’s economic multiplier effects will trickle down to the common folks as it will attract a number of people not only from nearby cities, but from across the East African region, who will come and spend in Arusha” Mr Akko explains.