THE National Institute of Transport (NIT) is currently implementing several new projects to turn the state-run institute into sub-Saharan Africa’s transport hub. The key ambitious projects include establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Aviation and Transport Operations and establishment of a Regional Centre of Excellence in Road Safety. Others are expansion of the Lindi Campus (115 acres) for Maritime Studies and Petroleum Technology, KIA Campus-Aviation Training (60 Acres) and acquisition of 800 acres in Dodoma City for other projects. Speaking at the 6th NIT convocation, the Institute’s Deputy Rector Dr Prosper Mgaya, said his organisation is innovative through interaction of different disciplines and professions. “We want to see business, government and civil society leaders building frameworks to protect the environment while promoting economic growth,” said NIT Rector, Prof Zacharia Mganilwa. He added, “We would like to see engineers and technology entrepreneurs connecting rural audiences to essential information.” The aim is to produce graduates who are not only ready for demanding jobs, but also creator of new jobs and later become employer. “We hope that during your time here you have learnt valuable lesson of rethinking education in all of its facets,” he said. The Institute has prepared you to be job creators and not job seekers in our competitive economic environment. So, stay connected with your classmates, your lecturers and your fellow alumni. He further said, “Our journeys are linked-yours, the alumni’s and the Institute’s. If we all act on the basis of that understanding, I believe our shared future will be a very bright one indeed.” He congratulated best students for significant achievements they have made which would not have been possible without support of parents, guardians, sponsors, spouses or friends. “You should also understand that if we are to become full participants in the knowledge society of the 4th Industrial Revolution, we must embrace the values of collaboration and coordination, openness and partnership, choice and diversity.” he explained. The Chairperson of the NIT Governing Council, Prof Blasius Bavo Nyichomba, said the Institute through the years has been living the vision to create ‘Thought Leaders and Change Masters.’ “Since 1975 NIT has been imparting knowledge and training, grown and evolved into a prestigious Transport Institution that give to the industry successful transport professionals,” he noted. “The Institute has now earned an outstanding reputation for itself and created an ineffaceable mark at the national and international levels in the fields of Logistics and Transport Management”, he said. The forces of technology and dynamics of globalisation require an institute to be very adaptive in its outlook and responsive to changes in the external environment, the NIT chair said, adding that the multidimensional bouquet of programmes offered at NIT cater to all aspects of Logistics, Management and Transport Technology in the context of today’s environment.