TRADERS in Kigoma, Katavi and Rukwa regions have expressed appreciation for efforts being undertaken by the fifth phase government to upgrade infrastructures of some ports, including building new ones as the terminals will scale up trade between Tanzania and land-linked countries. The business community that relies on ports in Lake Tanganyika to ferry commodities from Tanzania to the neighbouring countries of DR Congo, Burundi, Rwanda and Zambia, said by improving ports’ infrastructures and building new terminals in Lake Tanganyika’s shoreline, the government was indeed determined to create good business environment. The government, through the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), is currently undertaking small, medium and large scale port projects in all major water bodies in the country to exploit the marine economy to the maximum possible extent . Mr Seif Seba, a trader from Kirando village in Nkasi District Rukwa Region, who engages in ferrying commodities to Moba division in DR Congo, said the improvement of infrastructures of ports in Lake Tanganyika would quicken the pace of cargo handling at terminals. Speaking on Kipili Port in Nkasi District, whose construction has been completed, Mr Seba said the terminal would simplify cargo handling, including loading and offloading. “Previously, there were completely no port infrastructures at Kipili shoreline, something that prompted vessels to operate in a crude environment but today vessels, including large ships with the size of MV Liemba, can dock without any problem,” he said. MV Liemba, the oldest ship in the country, measures 71.40 metres in length. However, Mr Seba called on TPA to build port infrastructures at Kirando Village, given its importance in marine transport. The ‘Sunday News’ witnessed a hype in marine activities at Kirando, signifying the need to build a cluster port. “Majority of traders from DR Congo arrive here to purchase goods and they use this shoreline to ferry the purchased merchandise back to their homes. I am requesting the government to build port infrastructures here,” he urged. A trader from Moba Division in DR Congo, Mr Moise Kaswela, appreciated efforts being made in improving ports’ infrastructures. However, he also called upon TPA to build a terminal at Kirando. Mixing French, Kiswahili and Lingala words in his comments Mr Kaswela said: “Lack of port infrastructures here renders the task of loading and offloading cargo difficult. Casual labourers are forced to walk through the water to offload or load goods in the vessels. The same applies to passengers when boarding or disembarking from vessels,” he said. The Congolese trader congratulated President John Magufuli for his exemplary leadership, asking him to continue forging ties with the second largest nation in Sub- Saharan Africa. However, Mr Kaswela urged the government to grant free visas to Congolese nationals upon entry to Tanzania as part of measures to boost trade. “If President Magufuli grants us free visas when we enter Tanzania for business purposes we will thank him more and more,” he said. The quest to have Kirando Village’s shoreline provided with port infrastructures was also raised by Hillary Kashamakula. According to him, if TPA builds port infrastructures at the shoreline, many traders from DR Congo will use the terminal and thus stimulate further economic activities in the area. According to Kigoma Port Manager Mr Percival Salama, close to 5bn/- has been spent on building Kipili Port infrastructure. Commenting on the plea for building port infrastructures at Kirando, Mr Salama said TPA was weighing the possibility as the location needs water breakers. TPA has so far injected a total of 123.234 bn/- in implementing a total of 27 port projects in Lake Tanganyika, some of which have already been completed.