NEWLY built multi-purpose ship christened MV Mbeya II is expected to start operations in Lake Nyasa next month. Once operational, the 200-passenger vessel will completely resolve transport woes to residents along the lake’s shoreline in Mbeya, Njombe, Ruvuma regions and the neighbouring countries of Malawi and Mozambique. The ship, with the capacity to carry 200 tonnes of cargo at once, is currently undergoing trials before being certified by Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC). On Monday, the ‘Daily News’ witnessed the final trials being carried out at Kiwira Port in Kyela District, Mbeya Region Speaking to reporters later in the day, Lake Nyasa Ports Manager, Mr Abed Gallus said the new ship has all modern equipment, including navigation accessories installed. “This is the first safest multipurpose ship to have ever built and operated in the whole of Lake Nyasa given its features and size. It has good speed with VIP lounge, first and ordinary classes,” Mr Gallus told the press at Itungi Port in Kyela District, Mbeya Region. Itungi port is the head office that oversees the operations of all 15 terminals in Lake Nyasa zone. The building of MV Mbeya II is part of the government’s two phase project through TPA which involved the construction of three ships. According to Mr Gallus, in the first phase of project implementation which started in January 2015, TPA through its own domestic revenue sources, financed the construction of two cargo ships-MV Njombe and MV Ruvuma- each costing 5.5bn/-and was completed in July 2017. MV Ruvuma and MV Njombe have the capacity to carry 1000 tonnes of cargo each. The incoming of MV Mbeya II now brings the total number of ships owned by TPA to three. Both, MV Njombe and Ruvuma are cargo ships that have proved to be playing an integral role in cargo transportation in the whole of Lake Nyasa The second phase of project implementation that involved the construction of MV Mbeya II kicked off in July 2017 and the vessel is now expected to start its operations next month. According to Mr Gallus, when the new ship starts operations next month, she will sail in all the three regions of Mbeya, Njombe and Ruvuma and the neighbouring countries of Malawi and Mozambique. He said MV Mbeya II has the ability to dock at any place on the shoreline provided the depth is compatible with its requirement. However, he said TPA would improve infrastructures at all its 15 terminals in Lake Nyasa. The three ships have been built by Songoro Marine Company which is based in Mwanza with TPA incurring a total of 20.1bn/-in financing the whole project. The Ports manager said before the construction of the three vessels there was no big ship that was operating in Lake Nyasa, a situation that rendered life of those living along the Lake difficult. However, he said transporting coal from Ruvuma Region to Mbeya has also been made simple and cheaper as opposed to the past when the cargo was transported overland by trucks. Giving an example, Mr Gallus said transporting one tonne of coal overland costs 110,000/- while by ship is 85,000/-. Other advantages of using marine transport include delivery of massive cargo at once, saving roads from destruction, reduction of traffic on the highways and reducing environmental pollution caused by trucks. Mbeya and Dangote cement companies rely on TPA ships in Lake Nyasa to take its products to the markets in the three regions and beyond.