THE Ministry of Health, Community, Development Gender, Elderly and Children, through the department of social welfare, yesterday met with stakeholders in Dar es Salaam to review the implementation of the Women and Gender Development Policy and Plan of 2000 and 2005 to accommodate current changes. This was said yesterday by the Dar es Salaam Regional Assistant Administrative Officer, Ms Yokobeth Malisa, said during a seminar to collect views from stakeholders as they started evaluating the policy and plan. She said the objectives of the meeting was to obtain information and statistics on the implementation of gender equality and women empowerment in achieving sustainable development, especially in the health, education, agriculture, environment and financial inclusion sectors. “Our aim is to collect views that would enable us have effective policy that addresses all important issues and to gain a common understanding of the role of the government and stakeholders in the development of the Women’s Development Policy,” she said. Ms Malisa said the meeting brought stakeholders from Coast, Morogoro and Dar es Salaam regions. She commended the government for broadening the participation of citizens in the evaluation of policies and strategies for expanding the scope of public participation in policy review and strategy, as well as the ministry for fulfilling its coordinated role and ensuring that the Gender Policy Review was conducted effectively. “This participation will produce a better policy and strategy for tackling gender challenges that slow down the nation’s pursuit of development goals,” she said. The Consultant of National Gender Policy review, Prof Linda Mhando, said the process will be ongoing and inclusive to members of the public not only at the regional level but at ward and village levels as well. She said after conclusion in Dar s salaam, they will proceed to other regions, including Manyara, Arusha, Tanga, Kigoma and the southern zone. The beneficiaries of this process are more than 8,000, including 2,500 youth because they believe young people have a special contribution to make.