THE Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), plans to change learning and teaching methodologies to produce competent graduates who meet labour market demand. The Head of ICT Department at DIT, Dr Joseph Matiko said in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday that the change will engage global institutes of technologies, training industry skills to its staff and student by attaching them to various mega projects. “Plans include curriculum and training system change to meet demand by applying pedagogical training method with international exchanges, industrial attachment and issuing international certification in ICT specialization,” he said. The transformation goes in line with construction of Regional Flagship ICT center of Excellence (RAFIC) project worth 12bn/-at the institute’s area, said Dr Matiko, the project manager. Other efforts will also involve signing Memorandum of understanding (MoU ) with different industries to attach students and trainers to equip them and meet their demands. On the international knowledge arena, Dr Matiko said DIT will continue to cooperate with a U SA based Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and other technology institutes in China, Japan and South Korea. The Managing Director of Launch pad Tanzania that deals with curriculum development, Ms Carol Ndosi said the move will address the current mismatch between education and labor market requirements. “If colleges and vocational trainings institutes cooperate with private sector, it will breed skilled workforce highly needed in industries,” she said. The Assistant superintendent of Police (ASP) Lilian Warioba from police force’s forensic bureau said DIT the move will help mitigate security gap in combating cybercrimes. RAFIC project is part of East Africa for transformation and regional integration project (EASTRIP) that secured 37bn/ -grant intended to train 3,650 students at certificate, diploma and degree level while over 500 students will benefit with the training indirectly for a period of five years.