GRADUATES have been challenged to shed the notion of being employed but rather apply the acquired entrepreneurship skills to create their own employment opportunities. This was said over the weekend by University of Dar es Salaam Council Chairman retired Judge Damian Lubuva, during the 12th graduation ceremony of the Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE) which was presided over by former president and Chancellor of the University of Dar es Salaam Dr Jakaya Kikwete. A total of 1,647 graduates (1,037 males and 600 females) successfully completed their studies and are ready to venture into the busy job market to seek greener pastures. “Unemployment is a worldwide problem; as such, drop the idea of being employed by either the government or non-governmental institutions but instead use the knowledge you have acquired here to establish your own employment opportunities,” he said. He added that there are various economic opportunities available in the country which only require graduates to think outside the box to fully utilise them for the benefit of themselves and the communities they live in. “You are professional teachers, hence always strive to stamp a good image of DUCE wherever you will be tasked to practice your career. Be humble and ready to grasp new ideas from your colleagues at work places,” he remarked. He also urged them to be on the frontline in helping the fifth phase government in its efforts to uplift the economy of the country and never allow themselves to be used negatively. On his part, Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Dar es Salaam, Prof. William Anangisye, reminded the graduates that life out there was not easy, and as such, they will be compelled to work in a difficult environment in their search for good life. “You have been equipped with a strong weapon (education) which you must use to fight against poverty, ignorance and diseases. In whatever you do, be creative and a solution to problems you will be facing,” Prof. Anangisye said. He commended the current administration under the leadership of Dr John Magufuli for always taking a leading role in financing various projects at DUCE for the sake of positively transforming the institution. Also, DUCE Acting Principal Prof Stephen Maluka said among other things, they have succeeded to establish a scheme which helps to assist students who have financial problems to finalise their studies.