IT never dawned in Rajvi Ladha’s mind that what seemed as children’s play, where she joined her brother to play football left an indelible mark in her life, and cultivating an interest in the sport, a move that saw her developing into a fully-fledged and accomplished soccer player. “I started playing football with my brother, barefoot in the neighborhood streets in Tanzania. When I say football, I don’t mean shin guards and a shiny Adidas ball. I mean playing in socks on a wet field with just any ball that was given to us, skidding through and dribbling the ball around with my mates,” Rajvi said. The now sleek player had to defy all the cultural and social odds as soccer back then was considered “a boys’ game”. “This perception held by others served as a hindrance in my progression, as they felt I was ‘wasting my time’ or that it was merely a ‘passing phase.’ My parents were the only ones who served as my pillars; picking and dropping me off at trainings and watching all of my games. This led me to play for the national team for Tanzania,” she added. Being one of the few female players for the team, she was featured on the cover page of the local Mwananchi (Citizen) newspapers. This opened avenues for her to play in Denmark, Sweden, China, North Korea, and other small towns in Tanzania, allowing her to create the awareness that women too can play football, nationally and internationally. “My struggles of being able to play and be treated equally were overcome with my passion for the game and being with my team. From a young age, people were always cynical towards my addiction to football. Not knowing that I was silently fighting inside, trying not to succumb to the negativity. I knew I was made to play. “Playing, however, also had its own setbacks. Along my journey, I had several severe injuries which required intensive knee surgery. I received the devastating news of the possibility of not being able to walk again, let alone play again, should such a situation reoccur. This did not dissuade my appetite of excelling and representing women around the world,” she said. Finally, at 27, she got an opportunity to shout out her passion for the game when she joined an organization ‘Equal Playing Field,’ a nonprofit initiative to challenge gender equality in sport and to promote sports development for girls and women globally especially in marginalized country contexts. This is when she got the chance to break two world records. First, playing football with a bunch of amazing women at the highest altitude in the world, which is at the crater of Mt. Kilimanjaro, as well as the lowest point in the world; The Dead Sea in Jordan. “My experience in Jordan was incredible—one that followed the Kilimanjaro expedition. I learned perseverance in sharing my personal space, as well as my skill of the game. I learned passion when I saw it in the game, through my teams’ tenacity on the pebbly grounds of Petra, just like on the mountains of Moshi. “Football-the only game that has made me literally reach the ‘heights’ and lows of the world whilst allowing me to grow personally and professionally. Whilst sharing a tent with girls who shared my passion for equality on the field, I found comfort and hope that a difference can be made in the world. A difference has already been made by the awareness that these trips have made in the media,” Rajvi said. During football camps both in Africa and Jordan, made her to realize that the love of football lies in the hearts of the impoverished as well as the refugees. This was the most inspiring aspect for her. The stories from these trips also made an impact on her students in Dubai, who continue to discover how liberating and amazing football is. Her female students have come to enjoy, and became almost addicted to playing football everyday with her. “My experience has been heartwarming as well as enlightening— given me hope for the future for female players around the world. “I currently reside in Dubai and am a sports teacher in one of the BEAM school, which gives me the opportunity to fulfill my dream of impacting the young souls and wanting them to excel in sports. I am playing for Leoni FC and participating in various women’s league in Dubai. “All in all, all I can say is that I truly learnt the meaning of ‘playing football with your feet is one thing, but playing football with your heart is another,” she concludes.