THE government has promised to continue creating an attractive environment in public and private universities domestically that would enable more students to enroll for higher learning studies. That was said over the weekend by Tanzania Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan, in a speech read on her behalf by the Ministry of Education, Science,Technology and Vocational Training Deputy Permanent Secretary, Prof James Mdoe, while addressing St Joseph University 12th graduation ceremony audience. Ms Samia said that every year the number of graduates coming out of universities in the country is still low in comparison to other East African countries, hence, there should be an urgent need for the ministry to put strategies at the institutions and increase enrollment. She said that private universities are government partners in education improvement in the country, hence the ministry to team up with them on the note. The Vice President noted that 25 per cent of all universities graduates every year come from private ones, hence the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) in collaboration with the ministry should sit together on positive ways forward. “TCU should see private universities like St Joseph as their partners and not enemies and it is supposed to create an enabling environment for them to expand and provide quality education. “We are partners and depend on each other to help the country to produce competent graduates and I am aware that some of your programmes were closed by TCU, because of some underperformances, but I am happy to hear that you have corrected the gap, and everything is on track. “My presence here is a clear testimony that the government is satisfied by the improvement you have made,” she said. Ms Samia noted that records show that since the start of St Joseph in 2004, it has produced more than 7,900 graduates in Engineering and others, something that complements the government’s efforts in producing local experts. In a related development she hailed contributions of the Catholic Church in Tanzania for investing in the education sector since 1980s, when the government requested private institutions and people to establish private universities. On his part, St Joseph Vice Chancellor, Professor Innocent Ngalinda, commended the government for also advancing loans to students at their university, and employ them as competent graduates after their studies. He said that St Joseph was committed in making sure that it produces competent graduates, who can employ themselves, and also employ others. The Vice Chancellor noted that by doing so the graduates would contribute a lot in fulfilling the government’s dreams of becoming a middle income economy by 2025. “Your journey has been very difficult, but I thank lecturers who prepared you to be competent enough and now you are ready to work for the community, but please be innovative and don’t engage in corrupt practices, because we need you to became St Joseph good ambassador. “Don’t think that this is the end of your journey…struggle to learn new things every day, because it is the secret of your success,” he said.