AS the 2019 year is drawing to an end, President John Magufuli has been leading a crusade of peace, tranquility and patriotism, which have collectively made the country to be a place for business boom for the nationals and foreigners. Joined by other leaders ranging from different religions to those in opposition parties, Tanzania’s peace preaching has made the citizens to enjoy peace and celebrate Christmas, and Idd-el- Fitr, among others, setting a pace in public that as the New Year beckons, the same peace, tranquility and patriotism must be maintained. Peace is longed for in the country and beyond because trade hinges on it. It builds, strengthens and restores the citizens’ spirit to work and build their nation. Tanzania has been a peaceful nation right from Independence and the same peace must continue for the economy to grow, children to go to schools and life to continue in general. Nobody is mad enough to choose war whilst there is peace, because during times of peace, sons bury their fathers, but in war it is the fathers who send their sons to the grave, something no one would long for. Collectively as Tanzanians, we must be ambassadors of peace right from the grassroots to the national level and beyond our borders, wherever one is. Peace building is an enabler-of development, security, social and economic justice, and reconciliation. In a peaceful environment all good things are possible, whereas in the absence of peace, we cannot achieve anything of a positive nature, either as individuals, or as a community, or even at a national or international level. It is the same peace and truth that made traders from all parts of the country to meet President John Magufuli for business talk, where he reminded them as any citizen that: “msema kweli ni mpenzi wa Mungu’, that may loosely translates as one who speaks truth is a darling of God.” It is the same peace that made the country to host the 39th Ordinary Summit of the Heads of State and Government of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), from 5-18 August, this year in Dar es Salaam, and the list may be long. It is the same peace that made the country become a tourist destination of thousands of tourists from Israel, Europe and other parts of the world, something that has earned the government foreign currency as well as creating and sustaining job opportunities to nationals working in the industry.