MULTIPLE taxations, countless regulatory authorities and lack of awareness on business and investment issues were cited as the major challenges facing the sectors, it was leant. In a meeting organized in Dar es Salaam recently between the government, investors and business people in the city, different stakeholders aired their concern on issues, which hinder their businesses’ growth and urged that authorities strategize to receive their complaints, suggestions and pieces of advices, and respond immediately. Led by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Investment, Ms Angellah Kairuki at the meeting, she said that her ministry would ensure that all regulatory authorities responsible for the sector scale down to assist the stakeholders, regardless of one in class and create guidelines, which are easily comprehended. “Not all businessmen and investors are equal in different aspects including education. It is important for the authorities to understand this and provide awareness to all stakeholders in the simplest way,” she said. According to Ms Kairuki many stakeholders and the business community lack enough education and awareness on various laws and guidelines, which government institutions and authorities, should provide then with. Expounding, she advised them to use electronic systems in their regulatory activities, which reduce physical attendance in operations to quicken their work. “Such a forum provides immediate answers to claims from the sector’s stakeholders. It also helps the ministry to understand where the problems are and come up with reliable solutions from the pieces of advices you advance and suggestion. This would increase the sector’s potentials to develop the nation,” she added. “This is the seventh region to conduct such a meeting, and there is still a long way to go to finish in the remaining regions, We expect within a few months to come in line with implementing President John Magufuil’s directives,” said Ms Kairuki. The meeting was attended by over 1,500 business people and investors as well as 10 ministers, including the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs, Engineer Hamad Masauni, Deputy Minister Industry and Trade, Stella Manyanya among others. Meanwhile, Land, Housing and Human Settlements Development Minister, William Lukuvi has said that Dar es Salaam City is on the verge of undergoing a major refurbishment, once its master plan would be ready by early next year. “Now is the time to rejuvenate the city and prepare to grab more opportunities. The city plan is in its final stage, but it will call one final stakeholders’ meeting, where everyone would have an opportunity to offer suggestion. I expect that by March next year, the plan would be ready for launch,” he said. In a related development, on those who manipulate and change land use against the law, he said: “All those who bought land in industrial areas and have secretly changed their usage purposes, their land would be confiscated. Everyone should use land in accordance to the allocated land use by the authorities.”