THE Permanent Secretary (PS) in the President’s Office- Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Joseph Nyamhanga has instructed regional authorities to make sure that all pupils, who excelled in Standard Seven National Exams, but missed placement in Secondary Schools in the first selection get vacancies by early March, next year. Reinforcing that, the PS further called upon the Regional Administrative Secretaries to make sure that each and every one sees into it that classrooms in their respective areas are made ready by the end of February, 2020 to accommodate the students. According to him, a total of 58,699 pupils who excelled in the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) this year have not been selected to join Form One by January 2020, due to lack of classrooms and would be subjected to wait for the second selection, when classrooms would be constructed . “The affected pupils are from 13 regions with Kigoma registering 12,092 and Rukwa region among the ones, but fortunately with as low as 686, who require 17 classrooms to accommodate them. I have already instructed Rukwa Regional Administrative Secretary (Mr Benard Mkali) to make sure that all the 17 classrooms are built and all 686 pupils join Form One by March 2nd next year in the second selection,” pointed out the PS. Mr Nyamhanga was in Rukwa region for a brief visit, where he visited and inspected the newly built Mazwi Health Centre here in the municipality, whose expansion and rehabilitation cost 500m/- funded wholly by the government. He also inspected the ongoing construction of a modern Bus Terminal some 12 kilometers away from Sumbawanga Town. “According to 2019 PSLE results, about 769,334 pupils excelled in the PSLEs, but only 7 01,038 have been selected to join Form One next January 2020 in the first selection. However, 58,699 pupils were to miss vacancies as a result of lack of classrooms in 13 regions. I am instructing RAS from 13 regions to prepare strategic plans to showcase on how all the required classrooms would be built and accomplished and as well submit the report to the Ministry of State, President Office’s Regional Administration and Local G overnment on 20th December, this year,” he instructed. Mr Nyamhanga further noted that 769,334 pupils who have excelled in the PSLEs this year become historical as the first batch of the fifth phase government achievement in the free education provision in the country. “The Fifth Phase Administration under the leadership of President John Magufuli for four years has been funding over 23.8bn/- free education up to Form Four level of education each month for the four consecutive years, hence we cannot accept all these 58,699 pupils to fail to join Form One in second selection simply because there are no classrooms,” he added.