THE leadership of Young Africans yesterday disclosed that they have finalised deal to sign the former Biashara United striker Seif Tariq Kiakala. The development comes barely after two days when the club announced the departure of Ugandan import striker Juma Balinya, who left the club on mutual agreement. Balinya, the former Uganda Police FC marksman left Yanga six months into his two year contract. It is however understood that Yanga failed to pay Balinya’s salary for the past three months. Last week, Balinya together with Namibian striker, Sadney Unkhob, Zambian striker Maybin Kalengo, Burundian defender Mustafa Suleimani and Ghanaian defender Lamine Moro wrote to the club demanding to terminate their contracts after going months without pay. Yanga confirmed that Balinya and Urikhob have been given greenlight to leave the Jangwani Street based side but turned down a request by Ghanaian defender Moro. However, some quarters suggest that Balinya and Urikhob performance failed to impress Yanga. The departure of Balinya, who was the top goal scorer in Ugandan league last season, has left a tense debate by many football pundits in the country who, are questioning, how the club judged him as not potential while he was deprived playing time. Balinya left the club after scoring two goals, one in the league against JKT Tanzania and another against Township Rollers in the CAF Champions League qualifiers Leaving that aside, Yanga seems to be already on the gas pedal during the upcoming mini transfer window, as the club’s Mobilisation Officer, Antonio Nugaz confirmed that Kiakala will be a suitable replacement for Balinya. “Kiakala is well experienced with the Mainland Premier League as he played for Stand United before joining Biashara United as such, with the current demands of Yanga, I believe he is the right player, who has come at the right time,” Nugaz said. He added that Kiakala has ability to score goals and has pace too, such that he will collaborate well with his scoring partner, David Molinga. “As you know, Yanga has had scoring problems hence with the ar rival of Kiakala, the next assignment will be to snatch creative midfielder capable to feed the strikers with good scoring passes,” he said. Asked when they will parade new Head Coach, Nugaz said currently, responsible people are keenly going through over 1,000 Curriculum Vitae (CV) of those interested to take charge of the team insisting that when everything is complete, the new coach will be unveiled. He also revealed that on Thursday, the club finished paying two months salaries of the players. Four days ago, Yanga Chairman Mshindo Msolla admitted that they have failed to pay players salary for the past two months. Msolla revealed that the club is facing 2bn/-budget deficit. Msolla made it clear that not a single cent has been embezzled or misused, insisting that the club was running at a shoestring budget. Meanwhile, Yanga arrived in Kigoma on Thursday afternoon ready to play two friendly matches against Mgongo FC and Mbao FC as part of scaling up the squad before the league resumes next week. However, reports had it that some of the key players have refused to travel to Kigoma, pressing the club leaders to clear their dues. The players include goalkeeper, Farouk Shikhalo, Patrick Sibomana, David Molinga, Deus Kaseke and skipper Papy Tshishimbi.