AS part of its corporate social responsibilities, a team from Camel Flour, a subsidiary of Amsons Industries Limited donated 480 kilogrammes of home baking flour to Nunge Elderly and Disabled Centre in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam over the weekend. It was a joyful day for elders living at the facility which is home to almost 27 old persons who entirely depend on donations to sustain their day to day lives. Speaking shortly after the donations, Camel Flour Business Development Manager Mr Tawakali Sumba said they saw it essential to cherish with the elders and show them that members of the community are always with them. “We know that you face many challenges here as such, this small donation, will help to alleviate some of the problems you are going through,” Sumba said. He also promised to continue rendering a helping hand to the old people at the centre while requesting other companies to do the same for the sake of assisting lives of the elders to run smoothly. On his part, Assistant Supervisor at the centre Mr Frank Munuo thanked Camel Flour for what he said timely donations, saying it will help a lot to improve living standards of the old people. “Despite this facility being owned by the government, we still face many challenges which cannot be solved by the government alone, hence, we always feel happy when the donations of this nature are made,” he said. However, among the challenges facing the centre, Munuo disclosed that most of the elders require frequent medical checkups at the hospital insisting that they also need health insurance to simplify the whole medication process. Elaborating on behalf of the elders, Mr Salum Ubwabwa revealed that they feel relieved to see people visiting them and provide support. “Most of us do not have relatives who can come here and cherish with us. Your presence here means a lot to us and continue doing that recommendable job,” he said. After visiting the Elderly and Disabled centre, the team also donated home baking flour at Umra Orphanage Centre located in the city which accommodates 117 orphans.