MAINLAND side, Kilimanjaro Stars Head Coach Juma Mgunda has cleared the air over decision to drop goalkeeper Juma Kaseja, saying he is not 100 per cent fit. Mgunda said the custodian needs immediate medication ahead of upcoming major competitions. Stars are in Uganda for the 2019 CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup, which kicks off today in Kampala. Kilimanjaro Stars will begin their campaign tomorrow by taking on defending champions Kenya in an EAC block derby. After facing Kenya, the country's envoys will confront Zanzibar on Tuesday, before winding up their group B campaign by entertaining Sudan on December 14th. It will be a match likely to revive the tempo of 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt, when the two sides last met in group stage and ended 3-2 in favour of Kenya; hence Stars are fully armed to revenge this time around. Speaking via a telephone interview from Kampala, Uganda, Mgunda said the decision to leave Kaseja was reached after the team's doctors recommended him (Kaseja) to go for extra checkup as he is not 100 per cent fit to feature in competitive games. “Kaseja has a leg injury which compelled our doctors to give him time to undergo medical checkup to know how serious the injury is and I hope on Monday, he is going to have that checkup,” Mgunda said. He added that people should understand that Kaseja is injured such that he needs immediate medical attention before the start of Africa Nation Championship (CHAN) and World Cup Qualifiers early next year. “It is true that he had been training with the team because the injury he has cannot prevent him from doing practices but it can still be hurting him, that is why we saw it necessary to leave him to go for medical checkup,” he said. Commenting on the match against Kenya, Mgunda said it is going to be very competitive as the two teams knows each other well. “As you know, CECAFA is the biggest tournament for all the teams which will take part as such, I expect nothing less than big competition. We are ready for the challenge and win the title,” he said. On his part, Kaseja admitted that he has picked an injury, which has been troubling him for a longtime. “What the coach has said is very true and I have been in pain for a longtime despite training with the squad lately. The team's doctors are the ones who have advised me to go for MRI checkup since I still feel the pain when playing. Because I am concerned with my health, I have to go for the checkup,” he said. With the omission of the veteran shot stopper Kaseja, Simba SC goalie Aishi Manula is likely going to fill the void backed up by Young Africans goalkeeper Metacha Mnata.