THE United Nations General Assembly has underscored the importance of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (Mechanism) that is completing the remaining work of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. President of the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Mr Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, expressed his unwavering support for the mandate and work of the Mechanism that has two branches–one in Arusha, Tanzania and another in The Hague, Netherlands He was speaking while hosting The Mechanism Registrar, Mr Olufemi Elias at the UN Headquarters in New York on Friday. The Nigerian dignitary stressed that operations of the Mechanism were essential for the continued development of international criminal justice. The two tribunals closed in 2015 and 2017, respectively. The president was reacting to the address by the registrar who briefed President Muhammad-Bande on the key activities and developments at the Mechanism. Mr Elias underscored the importance of the support of UN member states in a number of key areas of the Mechanism's work. Registrar Elias outlined the budgetary requirements of the Mechanism in 2020, emphasizing the need for support by the member states in the process, for an effective and timely implementation of the Mechanism's remaining judicial workload and ongoing functions at both branches of the Mechanism. Mr Elias is currently in New York in connection with the consideration of the Mechanism's budget submission for 2020 by the Administrative and Budgetary Committee (Fifth Committee) of the UN General Assembly. The Mechanism is an international court established by the UN in 2010 in Resolution 1966, in which the Security Council decided that the Mechanism should continue the jurisdiction, rights and obligations and essential functions of the ICTY and the ICTR. The Security Council further envisioned that the Mechanism would be a small, temporary and efficient structure, whose functions and size will diminish over time, with a small number of staff commensurate with its reduced functions. The Mechanism continues to operate until the Security Council decides otherwise; however it would be subject to a two-year review beginning in 2016.