TANZANIA will host next year’s regional Inter-Clubs (Kagame) Cup, the Council of East and Central Africa Football Association (CECAFA), confirmed this week. CECAFA confirmed the hosting countries for the up-coming events in the year, 2020. The confirmation was done during the regional sports body’s congress held in Kampala, Uganda last Wednesday. In 2020, Burundi, Rwanda and Sudan will each host two CECAFA events apiece. Djibouti, Uganda and Tanzania shall host one event each. According to CECAFA, Burundi will host Under-17 girls and U-20 men tournaments, while Rwanda will play host to the Under-17 AFCON qualifiers and the senior women challenge cup tournaments. Sudan will Sudan will host the Under- 20 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers and the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup men events. Djibouti will host the CECAFA Under-16 championship, the Under-20 women tournament will be hosted in Uganda and the CECAFA inter-clubs tournament (Kagame Cup) will be in Tanzania. Meanwhile, after guiding the Uganda Cranes to victory at the 2019 CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup success, Head Coach Johnathan McKinstry has heaped praise on the entire team that worked collectively for the feat. Uganda beat Eritrea 3-0 in the final to win the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup in 2019, for the 15th time since inception of the tournament that started as Gossage Cup in 1926. Right from the players, staff to the fans, McKinstry was full of praise. “I am extremely proud of all the Uganda Cranes players and staff for what has been a perfect run of six wins from six games to lift the title,” he noted. Uganda Cranes opened the campaign with a 3-1 victory over Somalia, then overcame Somalia 2-0, Eritrea 2-0 and Djibouti 4-1 to top group A unbeaten. In the semi-finals, Uganda Cranes edged Tanzania 1-0 courtesy of Fahad Bayo’s header in the final minutes of the game off Mustafa Kizza’s cross on the left flank to book a final berth against Eritrea. Eritrea had humbled defending champions Kenya 4-1 in the other semi-final clash. McKinstry envisages the CECAFA tournament as a stepping stone for players to elevate to the senior Cranes “A” team. “The last few months have seen steady improvement, and this is one more step in developing for future success” he added.