HOUSING projects under the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) would soon become the saviour of higher learning students in Dar es Salaam. This was noted by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, responsible for Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled, Ms Jenista Mhagama, while visiting some NSSF housing projects in Mtoni Kijichi, Toangoma and Dungu areas in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam recently. The minister said she was pleased to see the steps the NSSF’s management has taken to negotiate with higher education institutions on such scheme. “I am pleased to hear that you have done enough work in consultation with several higher learning institutions including DUCE, which have expressed a desire to apply for accommodation to accommodate its 3, 000 students. I understand DIT also needs to accommodate its 300 students, but we are waiting for IFM, University of Dar es Salaam and other public and higher learning institutions, because the Mtoni Kijichi project has 720 houses, which can accommodate 7,020 students and this shows that we have the capacity to meet the needs of universities,” she pointed out. In a related development, the Minister said the opportunity would ease students’ education also on HIV/AIDS, adding: “The NSSF management should prioritize female students in the renting process as the group that is at risk of HIV/ AIDS infection. “The biggest group of new infections face young people whose ages range from 15-28, and when you look at this group, you will find young people who are in universities, in which 80 per cent girls and are at high risks of HIV/AIDS because they have to commute as a result of lack of safe accommodation. “ In addition, Ms Mhagama asked the heads of the institutions to contact the NSSF for their students’ housing problems and give girls priority. In response, NSSF Director General William Erio thanked the Minister for visit, and assured her that they will continue to implement other directives of the government. “We thank the Honourable Minister for visiting our NSSF projects, and we are organised and partnering with other seven government institutions to improve infrastructures in these projects,” said Erio On his part, NSSF Board of Trustees Chairman Ambassador , Ali Idi Siwa promised the Minister that they will continue to monitor activities they are tasked on timely basis. “On behalf of the NSSF Board of Trustees we will continue to oversee the management of the NSSF to ensure that it completes the remaining tasks in these projects,” said Ambassador Siwa.