THE strategy is working, lessons well learnt and consequently the knowledge utilised has brought unmatched revenue in mines, with Arusha churning out 5.6bn/- in just 18 days of minerals sales. Gone are the days when minerals dealers in Arusha city, its vicinity and surrounding districts used to sell minerals messily as the government’s move to establish mineral selling hub in the city has attracted many traders to exchange their gains with cash to earn a living. Records made available this week showed that for less than three weeks, until the end of last month revenues collection at the mineral trading centre situated at the city centre surpassed 5.6bn/-, with the government earning its fair share in royalties and inspection fees, with the Regional Commissioner (RC), Mrisho Gambo saying more is yet to come. The revenue collected from the amount sold on that stint, according to Arusha Regional Minerals Officer in-Charge, Mr Hamisi Kamando, has more than quadrupled the sum they would otherwise receive before the government’s intervention that raised some stakeholders’ eyebrows for different reasons. Reforms are altering the Tanzanian mining sector, launched by President John Magufuli’s drive to eliminate illegal exports, crack down on tax evasion and optimize mineral trading. Putting in place mining trade hubs in every area that produce the solid, inorganic substances has provided greater transparency to the mining sector. Mr Kamando said that by selling of the said minerals, Tanzania Government royalty amounting to more than 188.6m/- while inspection fees stood at 5.5m/-. The mining officer disclosed that before the Minister for Minerals, Mr Dotto Biteko spoke to mining traders on November 12th this year in Arusha, the mining trade centre had only 12 traders out of the registered 107 all over the region. He said that in case of any challenges, his office was welcoming the Arusha mining traders so that together they sort them out. He urged them all to sell their gains in the centre as the Government will not tolerate any trader who goes against the laws and regulations in the sector. Arusha RC Gambo directed the Police Force to arrest anybody selling minerals out of the centre as that is tantamount to economic sabotage, hence the law should take its course. He said there was so big mineral business in Arusha, hence everyone should be proud of it and use the same to benefit them and the Government alike. He said the proceeds from minerals are used in development projects; Hence all stakeholders should have that in mind and spearhead nationalism. Mr Gambo said a lot more was expected in terms of volume of business at the Arusha hub, as efforts were still underway to ensure every mineral trader uses the centre. The RC said that with time, Arusha will prove mightier in both tourism and minerals business, hence lead to more income to people, the government and hence good lives for the citizenry and better provision of services. Construction of mineral trading hubs was launched by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa this year saying the move was to, among other things, ensure all constraints in the mineral trade chain are removed and promote the industry to benefit Tanzanians individually and nationally.