MAINLAND Premier League's defending champions Simba rewarded their fans a pulsating Christmas package in a 4-0 blitz over Lipuli at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. Simba took 11th minute to open their goal account through overlapping defender Shomari Kapombe who rounded two defenders before sending a cross inside the box to Francis Kahata who tapped the ball into the net past stunned goalkeeper Mkwando Aghathony. The goal came after Simba had missed two golden chances in the 9th and 10th minutes through Meddie Kagere who was set by Clatous Chama inside the box, but he failed to control the ball and Lipuli defender thwarted the danger away. A minute later Kapombe made another good move into the box, but his shot was blocked by defender David Mwassa for a corner. Earlier Lipuli tried to fight for an opener and the first good attempt came in the 8th minute when Mwinyi Ahmad's efforts outside the box was punched away by goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya for an abortive corner. But as time ticked off Simba took charge of the game again, they dominated the midfield and it was in the 13th minute when Chama charged into the box, rounded David Kameta, but his pass to Kagere was intercepted by a defender who cleared it for a corner. In the 19th minute Simba could have doubled their lead but unfortunately Hassan Dilunga with only goalkeeper Agathony to beat hesitated to tap the ball home as a defender came timely to rescue the situation. The defending champions who went into the halftime break leading 1-0, had to work extra hard to stop Lipuli strikers; Paul Nonga, Daruwesh Saliboko and Mwinyi Ahmad who had been a big menace to Simba defence manned by Pascal Wawa and Tairone Santos. In the second half, Lipuli came in a bit stronger but Simba were more determined and managed to double their lead through Kagere being a counter attack. It was in the 49th minute when Chama released a long ball inside the box and the scorer tapped it easily into the net. The goal was ninth for the Rwandese international who is currently leading the race for the golden boot. The defending champions kept on piling pressure on Lipuli’s goal and Chama made a great move. He went through Lufunga inside the box and released a curling shot which hit the post in the 54th minute. However referee Tito Kambi Mtoni pointed it to the spot awarding Simba a penalty, charging Lufunga for handing the ball inside the box. Dilunga stepped in and converted the penalty in the 57th minute to make the score read 3-0. Situation become worse for the visitors in the 64th minute for the boys from Iringa region. Simba made another counterattack through Sharaf Shiboub. He released a long ball to Dilunga who charged into the box with two defenders chasing him before he tapped his second goal of the match to make it 4-0 . In another game held at Ushirika stadium in Kilimanjaro, Polisi Tanzania welcomed KMC from Dar es Salaam and managed to beat them 2-1 victory to claim the three points against KMC.