INDONESIAN Ambassador to Tanzania, Dr Ratlan Pardede has said Manyara business community was in a better chance to benefit from Indonesia’s technology advancement to boost their businesses. Speaking at a regional traders’ meeting during his tour to explore opportunities for business and investment and enhance the two countries’ relations, Dr Pardede said the Manyara traders stood a better chance to benefit from Indonesia as it is one of developed countries that produces various machines used in processing cereal crops. The ambassador said trade opportunities from Indonesia do not reach well the targeted persons in Tanzania as there are some dishonest middlemen who increase prices of many goods, something that can be addressed by linking the businesspersons from Tanzania directly with their counterparts. “By now there are about 50 goods items that are brought to Tanzania from Indonesia and they include palm oil, papers while Tanzania sells tobacco, cotton, cloves and seaweed,” he said. Indonesia wants to use the political relations to be of economic value and support Tanzania to attain the target of being industrialized country. “We will link Manyara with one of our regions to start with,” pledged the ambassador. During the meeting, an official with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Rwangisa Francis said the ambassador was committed in supporting Tanzania realize its targets, something he promised since 2017 when he presented his credentials to President John Magufuli. One of his pledges was to ensure Tanzania becomes middle-income country with industries. “Tanzania has 31 regions while Indonesia has got 34, so when the ambassador calls to a certain regions here in Tanzania, looks to which one in Indonesia could best be linked with regarding opportunities available,” he said. The official said that after the tour he would be bringing investors who will sign contracts and invest in the country and that would increase the number of industries as well as employment and income in the country. Regional Secretary to the Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA), Mwanahamisi Husein, said the visit of the ambassador has brought hope as he has as well promised to link TCCIA regional office with one region in Indonesia so that they work together in seeking different opportunities in investment and trade