LEADERSHIP is a very critical function. For, the person who fits in that category is supposed to be an example setter for those over whom he or she superintends. This covers virtually all segments of society, including political, economic and social. A leader should function in such a manner that those operating under him or her should not aspire to become their replica. It is actually instructive that good leaders are role models who win lots of praises, not only amongst those they directly lead, but also members of the broader community. It is actually instructive that how a given entity, ranging from a relatively small residential settlement to a nation prospers or is troubled, stems from the calibre of particular leaders. Tanzania has, over the years since it became an independent nation, been served by several leaders in various public sector roles. But not too long after attainment of Uhuru, there emerged a species within leadership ranks, of individuals who perceived independence more as a basis, not of serving the nation sincerely as patriots, but a grand opportunity for enriching themselves and their families through crooked means. They also didn’t consider earnest public service as obligatory. The limping, and subsequent collapse of several public companies, as well as shoddy dealings in public service entities, was a product of that mindset. Any opening was seen as the independence to bend rules, regulations and procedures, in order to enrich the perpetrators. The damage perpetrated by corruption and maladministration over the years has cost our beloved nation dearly, by way of slowmotioned socio-economic development. At some stage in our post- Uhuru phase, the introduction of a system for monitoring public service leaders was perceived critical for stemming the grievous slide. Factored there-in includes the system of binding those who fall under the leadership category to fill, annually, assets and liabilities declaration forms. They are bound to do so by Section 9 and 11 of the Public Leaders’’ Ethics Act, No. 13 of 1995. It is upsetting that, according to Ethics Secretariat Commissioner Justice Harold Nsekela, only 17 per cent (2,369) out of 13,699 had made submissions by December 20. He urged those who hadn’t done so to comply by the end-of-year deadline, saying there would be no deadline extension. This is one area where leaders must lead by example!