DESPITE its importance and given the increasing number of patients with non-communicable diseases, little attention continues to hound dispensation of mental healthcare at medical facilities in Tanzania, experts have warned. An associate professor and mental health specialist at the Agha Khan University School of Nursing and Midwifery, (AKUSONAM), Dr Tumbwene Mwansisya, stressed that it was high time mental health component was embraced at health facilities. “Some of these patients have lost hope of living and are in self-loathing, which subjects them to mental illness. It is thus crucial for them to receive mental health care alongside treatment of their other diseases,” Dr Mwansisya advised. The expert was speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a workshop for nurses from selected medical facilities owned by the Tanzania Police Force. The two-day workshop is being held under a theme; “There is no health without mental health.” “The objective of this training is aimed at building capacity for essentials of mental health and psychiatric nursing to health practitioners so that they can respond affectively and immediately to needs of mentally ill patients,” he explained. After the workshop, participants will be imparted with skills to recognize symptoms of mental disorders and respond to patients experiencing mental disorders with appropriate mental health services. This will eventually promote and improve mental health within their health settings and communities. A Senior Lecturer at AKUSONAM, Mr Stewart Mbelwa, cited some signs of mental illness as abnormal mood, suicidal behaviors, loss of interest in life, retardation of speech, loss of appetite and weight, among others. Mr Mbelwa mentioned some features for suicidal behavior as previous self-harm especially trying to consume poison, stabbing, hanging or jumping from elevated heights and family history of suicide. The Chief Nursing Officer at Kilwa Road Hospital, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Ms Zainab Mcheka, was highly positive that the training would improve their skills in dealing with mental health challenges. “As health practitioners who provide treatment to both members of the police force and civilians, we come across many cases of mental disorders. This training will sharpen our skills in dealing with patients,” ASP Mcheka, who is among participants at the workshop, remarked. Another patient, a registered nurse at Kilwa Road Hospital, Mr Pastory Karoka, said he expects to share the experience with his colleagues to enable them diagnose symptoms of mental illness and eventually avoid negative impacts caused by such patients.