AS the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) continues with the construction of Kabwe Port along Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region, Congolese traders have hailed the decision made by the authority, saying the terminal will further facilitate trade between Tanzania and their home country, reports at the construction site state. The terminal, whose construction has reached 86 per cent of its implementation, is viewed as an ideal port for Congolese living in the eastern parts of the central African nation, such as Kalemie and Moba. Project Supervisor from Sumry’s Enterprises Limited, the contractor that implements the project, Engineer William Shila, said the project implementation kicked off on April 2, last year and is expected to be completed next March. According to Engineer Shila, traders from DR Congo have, almost every week, been visiting the construction site to witness the ongoing work on the strategically located terminal. “Congolese traders prefer this port because it takes only six hours to sail from here to, let’s say, Moba, if the weather is fine,” he said. He said currently, traders from eastern parts of DR Congo rely on Kasanga Port, the largest terminal in Rukwa Region, to transport their goods. However, given the long distance between Kasanga Port and their home country (DR Congo), traders consider Kabwe terminal as the best choice. “You know, it may take more than 48 hours to travel between Kasanga Port and some eastern parts of DR Congo. Due to this tiresome route, most of them now want to shift to this port upon completion,” Eng Shila added. The project, which is executed through design and build method at the cost of 7.45bn/-, involves the construction of the berth that can accommodate large and small ships as its depth will range between three and six metres. TPA supervisor of all projects in Lake Tanganyika, Engineer Nyakato Lwamnana, said the berth under construction will be 100 metres in length. She said other components of the project include the construction of the 650-metre approach road, cargo shade, toilets, passengers’ lounge and an office building. She has expressed optimism on the timely completion of the project as the contractor is ahead by 2 per cent. Traders from DR Congo, the largest country in Sub-Saharan Africa, purchase from Tanzania side commodities, including agricultural produce such as maize, rice and other general merchandise. The construction of Kabwe Port is among 27 projects being implemented by TPA through its Kigoma office at the cost of over 120bn/-. Speaking to reporters while in Kigoma, the Kigoma Ports Manager, Mr Percival Salama, said the authority was determined to further open up Tanzania to DR Congo, Burundi, Zambia and Rwanda.