WE just commemorated 20 years since the passing of our Nation’s founding father, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. Surprisingly, all eyes, ears and fingers are excessively pinpointing towards JPM and his government on whether he has comparatively done enough to foster all aspects of development that were laid down by Mwalimu! Well, we all remember how Mwalimu repeatedly quoted the American President JF Kennedy’s challenging statement of “Ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country!” I am herewith trying to provide some response to Mwalimu’s expectations from us, as per JFK’s statement. You know, all my “worthy to be illustrated” personalities are unique and committed citizens who do unceremoniously and permanently pour their enormous contributions to their beloved country. This week’s illustrated gentleman is one of them: “Each one of us has a unique contribution that when put together make a difference. That creates beautiful Tanzania, as we all know it today. That being the case, I have my unique contribution that when combining with others have made a difference in my country.” Says Dr. GODFREY TELLI, a Tanzania Country Coordinator of WWE (Works in Education Program) at Twaweza NiSisi. He is responsible in generating evidence, data & stories of effective interventions through reference to local and global experience, experimentation and analysis. “My contribution revolves around my interest and professional competence in education governance, research, teaching and policy analysis. For more than 10 years, I devotedly and effectively engaged in civil society organization initiatives in Tanzania.” Godfrey was born in November the 18th, 1965 at the Mawenzi Hospital in Moshi, Kilimanjaro. His parents are the late Mzee Gerald Benedict Mtena (worked as Tour Guide at Rangers Safaris Ltd in Arusha) and Mama Beata Mtena (Housewife) “the toughest lady ever, who gave birth to 5 children within 5 years! No twins!” Godfrey’s older brother (Thadeus Mtena) passed away in 2012. The remaining Mtena siblings are Godfrey’s younger brother, Fr. Benedict Mtena (a Catholic Priest) and the two sisters (Mrs Beatrice Kisoka and Mrs Geraldine Mollel). “Note; my last name, Telli, comes from the name of the first general secretary of OAU (1964-1972) Mr. Diallo Telli (a Guinean diplomat).” The young Godfrey attended Kilimanjaro Primary School before joining St. James Seminary (Kilema-Moshi) from form one (Secondary) to form six (high School). Godfrey’s view on Nationalism got more strengthened as he attended the compulsory National Service (JKT). Under the watchful command of ‘Afande Nguvu ya Nyani, Pilato, Tembo Jeuri and the late Afande Mtono’ at the Mlale JKT and then Mlalakuwa- Ujenzi JKT, our intake: “Miaka 20 ya Azimio la Arusha” ended up being an unforgettable experience. Godfrey joined the UDSM (University of Dar-es-Salaam) in 1988, studying Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics (B.A). After graduation (in 1 9 9 2 ) , Godfrey proceeded to acquire the needed working experiences by attaching himself with several Organizations. Among them were; “Kuleana (Mwanza), at the time, was one of the best-established street children’s projects in Africa.” Kuleana offered a range of programs, including non-formal education; family re-integration; life skills and advocacy. Another one was HakiElimu (Dar-es-Salaam). An independent civil society organization that seeks to promote public participation in education governance in Tanzania. “I contributed towards creating and sustaining national advocacy for social and educational change by stimulating broad public engagement, information sharing, development of ‘the Friends of Education’ and networking throughout the country.” A Fulbright Junior Staff Development Program (JSD) scholarship enabled Godfrey to join the University of Buffalo, New York - USA (in 2006) for his Master’s Degree in the Education Administration. After graduation, he proceeded to study for his PhD in Education Administration at the same University. In addition to several Civil Engagement, among his Publications are: *Re-defining Quality of Education. *The language of instructions Issue in Tanzania. Etc. The Telli family (with his wife, Sylvia Makundi-Telli) are blessed with four children (Tetti, Jerry, Beatha and Malaika). Having spent over half a decade in the USA, still, Dr Telli loves being a Tanzanian first and foremost. “I had all the opportunities to settle and live there. However, my love for my country prompted me to come back.” Apart from being a lecturer at Mwenge University (In Dar-es- Salaam), Dr Telli has also been contributing in some Education and Policy Research, including; Gema – Gender and Education Management Organization (in Makete and Ludewa), Education Achievement and Policy Analysis in Tanzania (across 10 Districts). Dr Telli undertook some special projects: One of them being Centre for Education Collaboration (in the USA and Tanzania), Immigration and Refugee Network Project (in Buffalo, New York). “Throughout, I am convinced that our country is rich enough to support its entire population, and I want to be part of the solution.” Dr GODFFREY TELLI the other ‘Mwalimu’ is practically walking the talk of Mwalimu Nyerere’s well-known phrase of “It can be done, Play your Part!” I have known this unique and hard-working gentleman from the foot of mountain Kilimanjaro for almost two decades now. Believe me, he is worthy to be illustrated! David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com