FORMER President of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi and his Secretary General, Mwesigwa Celestine on Thursday escaped the two year-jail-term after paying fine imposed against them by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court for forgery and uttering false document. On Wednesday, Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde convicted the two of forgery and sentenced each to pay 500,000/-fine or go to jail for two years. Likewise, the magistrate also convicted Mwesigwa of another count of uttering forged document and was given a similar sentence. However, Malinzi managed to pay the 500,000/-fine to avoid the custodian sentence, while Mwesigwa paid to the Dar es Salaam Court a total sum of 1m/-, due to the conviction on two counts he was charged with. Their release from K eko Prison was joyfully received by close relatives who went to meet them. As the conviction was held in the two counts, the magistrate acquitted the duo and two other TFF officials, Accounts Officer Nsiande Mwanga and Flora Rauya, the Clerk, in respect to other charges of conspiracy, abuse of position, money laundering and obtaining over 400m/- fraudulently. The prosecution had initially charged the accused persons with a total of 30 counts. Prosecuting attorney with Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Leonard Swai called 15 witnesses. Delivering the judgment, however, the magistrate ruled that the prosecution proved only two counts. Such counts including forging Executive Committee Resolution, purporting to show that the TFF Executive Committee had on June 5, 2016 decided to change the signatory of the Federation’s bank account under which one Edgar Leonard Masoud would be replaced by Nsiande Isawafo Mwanga. The prosecution had told the court that Mwesigwa produced such resolution at Stanbic Bank, Centre Branch to effect the charges of signatories of TFF accounts. The magistrate agreed with prosecution’s evidence that such agenda on charges of signatories was never discussed by the Committee. According to him, he could not also doubt the evidence given by two senior officials with the bank that it was Mwesigwa, who tendered the forged resolution to convince the bank to make the charges of the signatories. However, in respect to other offences, including abuse of positions by Malinzi and Mwesigwa in preparing the resolution in question, the magistrate pointed out that the prosecution miserably failed to produce sufficient evidence to prove the claim. He ruled that the evidence tendered could not support the important ingredient of obtaining undue advantage when they prepared the resolution. Likewise, the magistrate ruled, the offence of obtaining money by false pretences of which Malinzi was involved was not proved. According to the magistrate, there was sufficient evidence produced by prosecution witnesses, which acknowledged that at some point in time between 2014 and 2016 Malinzi advanced some loans to the TFF to support different sports activities and there was no proof that he was repaid. “ The accused (Malinzi) tried to recount how he assisted TFF.I agree with the defence that the evidence available shows that he advanced loans to TFF between 2014 and 2016. The money he was paid as indicated in the charges was genuine,” the magistrate ruled. As regard to money laundering charges against Malinzi, Mwesigwa and Mwanga, the magistrate found that having held that the money advanced to the former TFF boss was genuine, it falls therefore, that they were not the proceed of predicate offence of forging receipt of such payments. When considering the appropriate sentence to impose to the two TFF ex-officials, the magistrate took into consideration mitigating factors that they have remained in remand for over two years and have several family members that depend on them. He also took into consideration the motive behind the commission of the offences. Advocate, Nehemia Nkonko had told the court that his clients were forced to make the changes of signatories in order to protect TFF money after FIFA had found Masoud as incompetent to continue holding the position.