POLICE makers have been urged to invest and engage the youth in discussions as they lead the war on climate change, which poses a serious threat to human rights and human life. Speaking at a university students’ dialogue held at Commission for Human Rights and Good Governance (CHRAGG) offices, High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR)- East Africa Regional Office (EARO) Human Rights Officer Anand Chand said the dialogue was part of youth activism on climate justice and human rights. “Climate justice and human rights are not politically polemical. Policy makers everywhere need to listen and work on this and shape effective and principled policies,” he urged. He noted that young people believed their future and the future of all those who were not yet born was at stake. “It is they who will have to bear the consequences of the actions older generations some of who run governments and businesses,” he explained. He stressed that no country or community would be spared by climate change effects. “Already we are seeing vulnerable communities and nations suffering climate change effects. We must act quickly to ensure the least possible harm is done to human beings and our environment.” United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Resident Representative Christine Musisi said over 600 students met at St Augustine University of Tanzania in Mwanza (Saut) and other places to discuss the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and various aspects, including climate change and sustainable development. “Youth participation is essential for achieving sustainable development because they can and will play a crucial role in bringing about positive change. They will continually bring fresh ideas and innovations in creating a better world,” she said. CHRAGG Vice-Chairman Mohamed K hamis said the dialogue aimed at bringing together students to engage in peer discussions and sharing ideas of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 16 and establish future engagements with university students to ensure SDGs were well-understood and effectively implemented. “The event is an opportunity for all of us to learn and share experience on SDG 16 which aims at promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, providing access to justice for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.” He explained that the dialogues were held at universities which harboured the majority of young people who played a significant role in bringing about change and who were also the driving force towards socioeconomic development. Director for Natural Wealth and Resources Observatory Unit (Mocla) from the Ministry of Constitutional and Legal Affairs Neema Mwanga said her ministry had started reviewing all contradictory laws stated to harmonise them and create public awareness about them. “The government is also reforming the criminal justice system and legal sector to enable access to justice in the country,” she stated. She noted that Human Rights Day was an annual reminder that everyone was entitled to all civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, social origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability or any other status.