KILIMANJARO Stars were on Tuesday expected to have taken on the 14 times CECAFA Champions Uganda in the semifinal of the CECAFA senior soccer tournament. By the time you read this piece today, Wednesday this week, you would have already known the results between Kilimanjaro Stars and this year’s CECAFA senior soccer tournament hosts, Uganda. Personally, I don’t expect Kilimanjaro Stars to beat their hosts, Uganda and because of that I will dwell today on the need for the Tanzania F ootball F ederation (TFF ) to start working, from today onwards, in laying a solid foundation for our national soccer teams. They need to do that because after two weeks from today, Wednesday, December 18 th 2019, we will welcome the new year, 2020 and it would be a tragedy if our teams, from national teams to our representatives in the continental clubs soccer tournaments continue to behave the way they are presently doing. Let’s start with our country’s participation this year’s last, major soccer tournament, CECAFA senior soccer tournament. The best Kilimanjaro Stars could do to get into the semifinal was to play a goalless draw against Sudan where they collected a total of four points. Their first three points they collected from their own brothers, Zanzibar Heroes whom they beat by a lone goal. But outside the United Republic the best they could is play a 0-0 draw against Sudan. In the first match against Kenya, Kilimanjaro Stars were edged out by a lone goal. What is painful about this match is that Kenya played their youthful players and we had our Taifa Stars players! Now these are the things we need to avoid in the coming New Y ear, 2020. But we can only avoid defeats against such youthful teams if we also start working on new, more creative youthful teams. Now you don’t get a player like Kelvin John from Britain to Tanzania in order for such a promising player to warm up reserves’ benches. It does not make sense. Why for heavens’ sake do we continue fielding those dead woods in our teams? Why do we continue to believe that the best players for our team would come from Simba and Young Africans? TFF now need to start working on the following things. O ne, they need to tell all premier league clubs to establish soccer academies. Secondly, they need to reduce the number of foreign players from ten to six. They must also make it mandatory that only five foreign players can play in a match involving the premier league. Only by passing such rules, would our clubs be forced to work hard in getting our own local talents. Our coaches need to work on our raw talents. If Mtibwa and Kagera Sugar can do it why can clubs like Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC do it? Both Mtibwa and Kagera Sugar have remained in the premier league for over 15 years now. Y et they don’t have foreign coaches and have succeeded in building their teams from local talents. In fact, local players you see in Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC have been recruited from Mtibwa and Kagera Sugar. If Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC managements were smart, they would have recruited Mtibwa and Kagera Sugar coaches. Yes, they would not have gone for foreign coaches. The two coaches from Mtibwa and Kagera Sugar don’t have the money for recruiting the kind of players they would like to get. But because they need to build winning teams, they spend more time in scouting for youthful talent which are in galore. If this country did not have raw talent in galore, then Tanzania would not have recently won the continent’s U-16 soccer tournament. Again, if Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC have smart managements, they would make sure that they recruit, between them, the entire U-16 team. But knowing the three, so called big guns, I’m cock sure they are not going to do that. I know that because if we have in the past had such teams, but no one cared to look for such players! But beginning next year which just two weeks away, the TFF and all our so called top flight clubs in the premier league need to change their attitudes by start working on preparing better and more competitive teams for future continental soccer tournaments. We need to stop looking for excuses whenever we lose international soccer matches against minnows like Sudan and Somalia, countries that are locked in internal, endless wars.