PUMA Energy Tanzania, the leading oil company in the country has scooped four awards at the employers of the year awards held in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday. The event was organised by Association of Tanzania Employers ATE and graced by Jenista Mhagama, Minister for State in the prime minister’s office responsible for Labor, Parliament, Youth and people with Disabilities as chief guest. The company was announced best employer with best Attraction and Retention Strategies, Best employer In Managing Aged work-face. In addition, the company was named second runner up best Private sector company and 2nd runner up Overall winner 2019 Employer of the year, which places Puma among the Top 3 best employers in the country after TBL and GGM Speaking at the ceremony the Managing for Puma Energy Tanzania Mr Dominic Dhanah congratulated all winners and all other employers who participated. Mr Dhanah added that this year Puma energy Tanzania signed a 3 years collective bargaining agreement with workers union TUICO where they significantly improved working conditions of employees. “We heavily invest in people through our various programs like employee personal development and work training. We are proud that we are able to develop diverse and expert local teams with an agile approach to safely and sustainably serving our customer needs’. We have a mission to energize communities to help drive growth and prosperity,” he said. He added; “We have also been highly involved in CSR activities where this year, through our school road safety drawing competition, we were able to deliver significant improvements, by providing road safety education to over 100,000 students in 6 regions and over 89 schools in mainland Tanzania and 5 schools in Tanzania Zanzibar by 2019”. He pledged that being a market leader in the industry, the company has a role of ensuring that it continues to make a significant difference to the country while playing a role as an energy company and responsible employer in Tanzania.