STUDENTS at Mpwayungu Secondary School in Dodoma’s Chamwino District are demanding the school management to issue a financial statement detailing income and spending of public funds. The schoolchildren are blaming the management of foul play noting that they have been taking part in activities such as farming, but unfortunately, they become sidelined immediately after they auction the foodstuff. Also, they suggested appealed with the school management not to interrupt class programs with farming activities. Wilfred Aloyce, a form one student at the school said while Tuesday and Thursday are strategically allocated for sporting activities it was unfortunate that the same days students are pushed into farming activities. “We have issues that we suggest to our school management, parents and local government authorities to consider for the wellbeing of our academic,” he said. “We also want more practical than theories,” he said during a workshop organized by Woman Wake-up, a charity organization bringing schoolchildren, parents, teachers and religious leaders and local government authorities. Furaha Rusinde, another student in form three alleged that some school-age kids were still being exploited by their parents to sell products at the market until late hours. Unfortunately, she said some parents who engage in selling local liquor are increasing student’s burden to advance their academic target. “Children living where parents are selling alcohol they face noise issues and sometimes abuse,” she stressed. The student suggested that the local government authorities and school management must consider engaging children in development-centred meetings at schools and in their community. The School Headmaster, Mussa Makalwe and the Ward Executive Officer Selemani Kibakaya said there was no rights without responsibilities. The school management admitted that they had been engaging school children but not at the level of disclosing their financial books. “I suggest that the teachers hold discussion with the students at least once a month to identify their demands or challenges,” school board chairman, Charles Ndallu said. Women Wake Up (Wowap) representative, Nasra Suleiman said they organized the meeting to bring together children and parents as well as school and community leaders to develop a form of by-laws that would protect and promote children’s rights at school, home, and the community.