AT least 40 women with mental disorders from Kinondoni, Ilala and Temeke districts in Dar es Salaam have been turned into productive citizens. The women, who are under life-long medication, have formed an entrepreneurship group for income-generating activities such as tailoring, making detergents and other products. The group is under the Tanzania Users and Survivors of Psychiatric Organisation (TUSPO) which conducts a programme for scouting for people traumatised by psychiatric disorders and helping them get treatment at health facilities. After the patients recover, TUSPO empowers them economically by training them. So far, the organisation has over 1000 members who were previously tormented by the disorders. It conducts the programme with support from the MyRight, an organisation which builds capacity for civil society organisations that work to improve the welfare of people with disabilities and spreads awareness over their rights. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ over the weekend, TUSPO project coordinator Jabir Tuji said through their group, the women have participated in different local exhibitions and demonstrated their abilities to the communities within which they live. Mr Tuji said their members are those who were born mentally fit but became ill due to factors that include stress, drunkenness and drug abuse. “We move from door-todoor to identify them and take them to hospitals for treatment and help them economically,” he explained. One of victims of psychiatric disorder, Ms Mtumwa Nindi, who is the group’s chairperson, said that the campaign to enlist the patients for treatment was challenging due to the fairly widespread beliefs that such diseases were related to witchcraft. She said they started income generating activities in April this year and have had so far secured markets for their products after participating in forums such as the recent Jamafest event held in Dar es Salaam Jamafest is an acronym for Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival, the Kiswahili rendering for the EAC Arts and Culture Festival, which aims to promote regional socio-cultural integration through arts and culture by providing a platform to showcase culture as a primary driver of regional integration.