A NARRATIVE that describes Mufindi District in Iringa Region could have been different without Unilever Tea Tanzania that established its five tea plantations and three factories in this developing area. The state-of-the-art infrastructure in Kibwele, for instance, has indeed enhanced the picturesque of this mountainous terrain. Tea lovers across the world have trusted these beautiful highlands to continue producing their favourite blend. To this day, the industrious farmers have not disappointed and remain loyal to their local and international clientele. Farmed in the fertile highlands of Iringa, the tea that is produced here is acclaimed for its great refreshing taste and strong liquoring quality. Getting to Mufindi takes traversing the dusty winding roads that are metres away from the misty and rugged cold mountains. Mighty rivers restlessly snake through the trail to the tea plantations and factories. The magic begins with the beautiful aroma from the amazing and expansive green with a brush of yellow shrubs of tea. What quickly comes to the minds of many a visitor is just how a meaningful investment in rural economies can indeed create decent jobs for the local communities and again foster sustainable development. Unilever is the largest employer in the two regions of Iringa and Njombe, creating jobs for more than 6,000 people with 48 percent of management positions occupied by women. In other areas, where communities are not as fortunate to have such a great investment, many young people each year travel hundreds of kilometres away in search of employment in Dar es Salaam and other towns. But in Iringa and Njombe, a significant number of women stay at home, which is why the tea estates are so important for many who are seasonal workers. The majority of women in these two regions are also hardworking and resilient smallholder farmers who, at the break of dawn, are already in their fields, tilling the land. This culture of food production explains why Iringa Region is one of the bread baskets of Tanzania and combine that with the massive timber and tea production, it becomes clear why the region is also one of the richest in the country. At Unilever Mufindi, women like Mary Maneno, are the backbone of operations in the factories. “Women are also a key resource that drives tea production in all the estates,” says Ms Rebeca Mamuya, who is a factory manager in Mufindi. While there are a lot of positive developments at Unilever Tea Tanzania, Ms Mamuya says there is also a need to strengthen an environment that promotes the advancement of women. “As Unilever, we would like to ensure there is no harassment around our work-place. This is supported through our ‘No sexual harassment Policy and theChild protection Policy,” says Ms Mamuya said. Recent independent assessments found that there is a problem of physical, sexual and other forms of violence in the patriarchal communities of Mufindi and Njombe. “Some of these undesirable behaviours can be exported into the Unilever workspace or affect the productivity of survivors working in our company, hence the need for robust awareness raising activities to educate both Unilever workers and the communities around us. That way, we can holistically tackle violence against women and girls and ensure they are safe everywhere,” says Ms Mamuya. The results of the assessments also showed that, traditionally, significant number of women in Iringa and Njombe have no voice and are not involved in decision- making at household level. This can be attributed to a lack of confidence among some women and girls, also identified through the assessments. As a result, many survivors hardly report incidences of violence. On the other hand, the practice of polygamy and abuse of alcohol among men was identified as a contributing factor to gender-based violence, in addition to exacerbating levels of poverty. The assessments recommended awareness campaigns that can help to prevent violence against women and girls, teenage pregnancies and child marriage. Results from the assessments necessitated a programme established by Unilever in 2014, to help address human rights violations within the communities of Mufindi and Njombe and ensure that female staff are safe at home and as they travel to and from work. In an interview, the Unilever General Manager for Kibwele Factory in Mufindi, Mr Faisal Pervez Ansari said while Unilever Tea Tanzania runs many programs towards Women’s Safety and Welfare, there is no finish line in the race for improvement. “We have therefore partnered with UN Women on the Women’s Safety programme to further strengthen our efforts,” says Mr Ansari. The UN Women and Unilever Tea Tanzania partnership was recently launched in Mufindi to execute a series of awareness-raising activities in Mufindi District and Njombe Region, where Unilever is running its two tea estates and one factory. A total of 6,000 workers and their families will be targeted while other 1,000 women smallholder farmers from the surrounding areas will also benefit from the programme. Unilever, UN women partner to end violence Iringa, Njombe By DAILY NEWS Reporter THE Tanzania Education Authority (TEA) through SDF has provided 136m/- for supporting training on manufacturing and repairing modern agriculture inputs including tractors and power tillers. The training, which has been coordinated by TPSF in collaboration with Agricom Africa aims at building capacity to youth so that they can be able to create employment and generate income. TEA project Director, Mr Waziri Salum told reporters that the money provided worth the trainings that have been offered to youth. “We are glad the money has been well utilized, the youth have been capacitated with knowledge that will help them to record changes,” he said. The money has been provided by the World Bank and the government through TEA. The trainings were conducted for the period of six weeks. “We have been working closely with TPFS who connected us to various institutions including Agricom Africa. This has helped us to develop the technology in particular in agriculture sector,” he noted. He added that TEA will continue to provide similar trainings to other six sectors such as tourism, transportation, energy, works and Information Technology (IT). He said the training are in line with the government ambition to build up an industrial economy come to 2025. Nairobi, Tuesday CHINA’S smartphone maker Xiaomi is expanding its presence in Africa after its successful tapping of the Indian market. Kevin Zheng, manager for the Africa region, told Xinhua in Nairobi that the Mi Home shop will make available to local consumers smartphones and smart digital products from the Xiaomi brand. “In the future, we plan to open more retail outlets both in Kenya and the rest of Africa in order to meet the growing demand for quality electronic products,” Zheng said. Zheng added that its retail stores are ideal for consumers looking for affordable products because they stock a wide variety of Xiaomi products ranging from laser projectors, robot vacuum, cameras, TVs and many other ecosystem products. He noted that the Xiaomi smartphone has already performed exceptionally well in Asia markets such as India and the Chinese technology firm hopes to replicate the success in Africa. Greechain is the exclusive distributor of Xiaomi products in Sub-Saharan Africa. Greechain said that it plans to open more than 50 Mi Home shops across other African countries such as Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Mozambique, Ghana and Nigeria. According to Greechain, Africa’s expanding middle class provides a huge untapped market for quality electronic products. Speaking in Iringa, the UN Women Representative, Hodan Addou says the partnership with Unilever forms part of UN Women’s Global Flagship Program: “The Safe Cities and Safe Public Spaces”, launched in 2010. The programme aims at responding to violence against women and girls in public places, an area which is largely neglected as a human rights violation. She explains the Women’s Safety programme follows a growing partnership with the private sector in promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment in Tanzania. “Unilever is UN Women’s global partner that has signed up to the Women’s Empowerment Principles.This demonstrates Unilever’s commitment to the seven principles aiming to support businesses to analyze their current initiatives, benchmarks and reporting practices, and then tailor or establish gendersensitive policies and practices to promote women for the realization of gender equality and empowerment of women,” Ms Addou said. The partnership will provide capacity development support and long-term strategic planning to ensure sustainability of interventions. Ms Addou says by strengthening the capacities of Unilever staff, national and local partners in Njombe and Mufindi, UN Women will provide adequate systems, skills and tools for sustained change and development through stakeholder ownership during and after the programme implementation. “The whole essence of the programme is to ensure that women and girls enjoy their right to live in an environment free of all forms of violence,” says Ms Addou, adding: “When women and girls experience violence, they are robbed of their right to freedom and participation and ultimately, negatively affect progress towards gender equality and women’s empowerment efforts.” In Tanzania the problem of violence against women and girls is not only synonymous to Iringa and Njombe regions but a daily reality across the country. An estimated 40 percent of women aged between 15 and 49 have experienced physical violence while 17 percent are survivors of sexual violence, according to Tanzania’s Demographic and Health Survey (2015/16). The Tanzania’s Directorate of Criminal Investigation recently announced that incidences of sexual violence have increased from 6,985 in 2016 to 7,460 in 2017. The Directorate urged all stakeholders, including UN agencies, development partners, the private sector and members of the publicto partner with the police, to help reduce all forms of violence affecting women and girls.