PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Friday extended biometric SIM card registration to January 20. Before that, the deadline was December 31, this year, but there are still some subscribers who have not yet registered their SIM cards. We commend President Magufuli’s decision to extend the deadline and allow those who have not registered their SIM cards to do so until January 20. Otherwise, many Tanzanians would have lost contacts and it would have taken them a long time to regain them after being blocked. Besides President Magufuli’s decision, we commend National Identification Authority (NIDA) and telecommunications service providers for reminding subscribers through the use of a short message service (SMS) to register their SIM cards. We can say that the campaign has been successful as many Tanzanians have turned up in large numbers at NIDA offices to apply for and get their national identity cards and also at telecommunications service providers to register their SIM cards. This shows the effectiveness of communication information technology (ICT) in today’s world and how if well-utilised can lead to roaring success. Now we know that if we want a public awareness campaign to be more successful we can utilise ICT, for instance, sending short text messages to the intended people so that they know what is communicated to them and heed it. We say this because adverts from NIDA and telecommunications service providers have reached many subscribers through their mobile phones. It was a similar campaign used to remind Tanzanians of the ban on the manufacture, supply and use of carrier plastic bags on June 1, this year, and we know how well it worked to raise public awareness and make the campaign successful. Since we still have many national campaigns we can certainly utilise ICT to make them successful as well and keep citizens well informed as far as national interest issues are concerned. This should include reminding Tanzanians of their responsibility to keep their environment clean all the time for we think cleanliness hasn’t been internalised by most people and that is why we still find some people littering public places or uncollected garbage on some of our streets or roads. We believe if the responsible authorities use SMS and rallies to remind people of their responsibility to keep their areas clean the message will permeate them. So, let us explore this opportunity for we have seen how effective it is to make people aware of what they are required to do to avoid being cut off from communication. If we really want to achieve our development goals we can and let’s do it right now!