WHEN the CECAFA tournament kicked off in Uganda three weeks ago, soccer fans in the region were shocked when Eritrea edged out Burundi in the opening match of the tournament. They were shocked because Burundi, in their minds, had reached another football level having qualified for the Afcon finals hosted by Egypt in June this year. But that was not the end of shocks and surprises, and by the same country, Eritrea for soccer fans in Eastern Africa. For in the second semifinals, Eritrea did it, once again, and in style when they edged out the Kenya’ Harambee Stars. Eritrea only lost to hosts Uganda Cranes 3-0 in the final match at the KCCA Lugogo Stadium in Kampala on Thursday. I will come to the Eritrea wonder boys later. But let us look at the sorry state of Kilimanjaro ‘Starless’ who fielded almost the same players who usually turn out for ‘Taifa Stars.’ As we all know now, our Kilimanjaro Starless ended up crashing, twice, like house of cards against Kenya in the group stages and in the third play-off match. The former Simba Sports Club’s chief coach, James Siang’a who has since passed on told me a good team is not supposed to lose twice against the same team and in less than three months. He said any team worth its salt and has good coaches should be able to avoid the second defeat if they had lost the first match against the same opponent. Siang’a said losing two matches and against the same team means that both players and the coaches failed to learn anything from their opponents. And, that is what happened when Kilimanjaro Stars lost twice against Harambee Stars and in less than two weeks! Losing not once, but twice against Kenya when was edged out by the Eritreans means that if Kilimanjaro Stars played against the Eritreans, they will also be beaten. Now let’s turn to the Eritreans. Why have they managed to beat both Burundi and Kenya? It’s very simple; Their team must be a product of soccer academy. The Eritreans seem to have embarked on soccer academy not yesterday but a couple of years back, hence their present success. I have spoken about this academy thing for years. But what have Tanzanians done our so called soccer stakeholders? They increased the number of foreign players a local club can buy in a season from five to ten! Now if you talk of soccer ignorance, this is it. Increasing the number of foreign players does not solve the country’s soccer problems. To the contrary, it deepens the problems. And, examples for that are in galore. That is what befell Simba this year when they were knocked out of the preliminaries of the Champions League by a nondescript club from Mozambique. Tanzanians were understandably shocked to the course. Why? This is the same team that had gone past the group stages of the Champions League last season. The best way of developing the beautiful game is through the establishment of well organised and run soccer academies. That is what had led to the emergency of Madagascar who performed wonders in the June 2019 Afcon finals in Cairo. And, that is what had also led to the qualification, for the first time in their soccer history, of Burundi. Without their involvement in soccer academies, Madagascar would not have done what they did in Cairo in June this year, and likewise, Burundi would not have qualified for the tournament. After being knocked out of the senior CECAFA soccer tournament, I listened, through a television clip comments made by one Kilimanjaro Stars player, who had played for the team for the first time. He said he had learnt a lot from the tournament, first against talented players he had played against. And two, through the sight-seeing that had been afforded to him through his selection. I’m not very sure if the player has learnt. Many Kilimanjaro Stars and Taifa Stars players had said the same thing in the past. Unfortunately only three players had lived to the vow that includes, among others, Thomas Ulimwengu, Mbwana Samatta and Simon Msuva. The rest left Europe and returned home to play for Simba, Azam FC and Young Africans. Others did worse things. They hid away when TP Mazembe scouts arrived in Dar es Salaam to look for them! You get an opportunity of your lifetime to change your life, once and for all, for your family; and the best you can do is return home to play for clubs which have never won not even one continental soccer club tournament. • Attilio Tagalile is a journalist/ author and media consultant based in Dar es Salaam and can be contacted through tagalileattilio@yahoo.co.uk