TECH firm Compulynx Limited has diversified its offers to include ‘cloud enabled applications’ and e-commerce solutions in a fresh bid to capture the competitive East African Market. The Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Compulynx, Sailesh Savani, “The rebrands look at the future as the Cloud computing and ecommerce impact the way businesses operate and grow in the coming years,” As the company marks 25 years, the new cloud and e-commerce offers signify its agility. With the application, retailers would cut their costs and associated risks of having to purchase software and infrastructure as a cloud-hosted solution is accessible just by paying time-specific licence fee. Compulynx is also rolling out dynamic, secure and scalable e-commerce solutions as consumers increasingly adopt the culture of e-tailing, online shopping, thanks to an expanding middle class, high internet penetration and widespread use of mobile money platforms. The e-commerce platform will complement Compulynx existing retail software solutions including the Compulynx Retail (CORE) point of sale, inventory management, loyalty management software, business intelligence and handheld mobile devices with functionalities such as price checker, stock count. To give banks an efficient way to implement secure ‘know your customer’ (KY C) procedures, Compulynx is rolling out COMPASe- KY C. “It uses multi-modal biometrics backed by a powerful engine to curb fraud based on Identity theft to secure holders. It’s simply replacing passwords and signatures with biometrics,” said Savani. The solution is integrated with a bank’s core banking system or a company’s central system and takes over all authentication used such as user login and transaction authentication. The biometric enabled platform has also been successfully deployed for various NGO programs in over 10 countries across the globe whereby over 3 million beneficiaries have been disbursed benefits in a transparent and accountable manner. Compulynx is also eying opportunities in healthcare, one of the big four agenda pillars with its Smart-health Passport, an identity management and insurance claim management switch system for the health insurance industry. “It provides secure switching platform between insurance companies and medical service providers using biometrics to curb medical claim fraud emanating from Identity theft,” he said. Other areas we are exploring include revenue collection for counties where the company has developed this solution which comes as a mobile phone or tablet which allows revenue officers to collect and verify payment of levies, licences and fees.