YOU’VE not heard from me for quite some time my friend (you wouldn’t be my enemy, thank heavens) and may probably have been assuming that I was in prison, and that I was one of the lucky compatriots who were beneficiaries of the recent presidential amnesty. I was in Timbuktu, a city in the northern African country of Mali, a name which, incidentally, stands for wealth in Kiswahili, the ‘country tongue’ of blessed Tanzanians. I was searching for gold there, didn’t find any, remembered that ‘home is home’ and returned home with neither gold nor any other form of wealth. Allow me to bore you a bit, free of charge. Not so long a time ago, I used to deposit myself into places where, according to innocent God’s children who are referred to as reliable rumour mongers, quite a good (as opposed to bad) number of people pretend to feel that psychological salvation is obtained in places other than home. The places are bars, including the one that bears the somewhat poetic name, ‘Kabia Katamu’; A big lie because beer doesn’t taste as nice as orange juice, but as bitter as itself. Good gracious (as opposed to beautiful Grace?), I wonder whether you have ever read sentences as winding as these, which are almost threatening to be as long as baby rivers, since, not when you were born, but when you started knowing bits of the language that reportedly belongs to a certain queen. To set the probably bent record straight, I didn’t go to bars because I was trying to exile myself from a presumably inhospitable home as the rumour mongers referred to earlier claim. I did so to reconnect with friends for chats. One of the bars I frequented was called ‘Kata Kiu’ (literally ‘kill thirst’), but the frequency had been considerably dropped. Besides God, I can correctly guess that you also know why. It had something to do with the fact that, unlike in the not-so-distant past when, especially for ‘deal-fixers’, the friendship between money and pockets was as close as the love between twins, they now seem to be as deadly enemies as two militias in a country that, in spite of my being a bush diplomat, I can’t name publicly. Due to loopholes for easy cash, every evening in virtually every bar was a fantastic evening, as beer was literally flowing the way water flows from a water fall. Not any longer. Beer drinking groups have virtually vanished. It is commonplace for a person to be seated alone, seemingly talking to himself, and, in worse cases, doing so to the bottle and glass that can’t engage in conversation! Last Wednesday was very special, which, if you are as intelligent as I strongly suspect you are, you know why. Oh, yes! It was Christmas Day, an occasion which, “vyuma kukaza” notwithstanding, many people celebrate delightfully. But first, some background information. As a ten-year-old boy 56 years ago, I converted myself into a temporary tiny human antelope, after hearing a reliable rumour over the birth of a baby four kilometres from mine. I was excited to see, for the first time, how a human creature looked like, a few hours after descending from heaven (going by my grandmother’s explanation). I sat very close to the non-stop smiling mother of the baby. I smiled at the new citizen of the village, but he didn’t respond. I asked him what his name was, offered to share mine, Wilson, with him, but he either pretended not to hear me, or simply ignored me as a stupid intruder. I cried loudly thereafter, subsequently telling adult guests that I was pained to imagine how the baby would cope with jiggers that would certainly seek shelter in the soft soles of his feet as they did in mine! On my way back home after attending Christmas mass on Wednesday, I removed my spectacles to wipe them, as a car that had driven past had kicked off quite a bit of dust. Out of the blue (and not any other colour), a kind man donated a quarter Tyson-like punch to my unnecessarily thick, innocent nose and I started bleeding profusely. I turned my head heavenwards, wondering why, on of all the days, I should suffer such a fate on Christmas Day. The ‘donor’ claimed that I had cast a glance at his wife somewhat suspiciously. He was deeply embarrassed when I told him that minus the spectacles, my eyes behave as if they are winking. The wife wept uncontrollably, blaming her husband for being unduly hostile. The gentleman (gentle-less man?) was deeply embarrassed and sad. He swore (really?) that he had suddenly felt the urge of becoming a born-again Christian and wondered whether I could do the same. I promised to give the proposal serious thought, and, God willing, become re-born before Christmas 2020. wkaigarula@yahoo.com 0713-450-633