SIMBA SC Head Coach, Sven Vandenbroeck hailed KMC shot stopper, Jonathan Nahimana for his brilliant saves during their Mainland Premier League match in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. Simba opened a seven-point gap at the summit of the league table with a 2-0 win over determined KMC at Uhuru Stadium in the city. Congolese import attacker, Deo Kanda and Brazilian holding midfielder Gerson Fraga netted one goal each in the second half to enable their side pocket crucial three points and keep on chasing the league title at the end of the season. The defending champions will again be in action tomorrow at the same venue, hosting 19th placed Ndanda FC from Mtwara, who are still struggling to cope with the league’s tempo for this season. A win by the Msimbazi Street side tomorrow will see them reaching 34 points from 13 games with ten wins, one draw and one loss respectively. From 13 matches, Ndanda have garnered eight points with only one win, five draws and seven defeats hence they need to work extra hard to stun on fire Simba at their own backyard. Speaking at a post-match briefing, Vandenbroeck lauded Nahimana saying he was brilliant in between the goal posts to deny his side from scoring more games. “After the game, there was only one man of the match (KMC goalkeeper) who did 4-5 good saves, which could have definitely gone in,” the coach said. He added: “KMC do not have many points in the league but they deserve better than where they are now.” Commenting further on the match, the Belgian trainer said the first half was poor for his side but in the second half, the adjustments they made brought in tangible results on the day. “Forget about the first half. I will sit with my colleagues to see what happened during the opening segment since our performance was not good but I’m happy that we have players who can change the game for better results,” said him. He also disclosed that tomorrow, he will make some rotation to see some players who have not yet featured under his tutelage, saying he wants to see the performance of each player before the mini transfer window closes. “We will soon make evaluation of the entire squad to find out who to keep and who to be released that is why I want to see the performance of everyone because the work rate one does during training is different from games,” he said. On his part, KMC Coach Ahmad Ally said communication level among his players in the second half dropped hence awarding Simba the two goals. “As you saw, the performance we displayed in the first half was much better than we did in the second period but all in all, we have lost such that we need to wake up for the upcoming league games to move away from the relegation zone,” Ally said. His goalkeeper Nahimana admitted that they lost from a good team after succeeding to spoil their game plan.