THE Fire and Rescue Force (FRF) faces a shortage of 4,346 staff, which compromises effective dispensation of the force’s life and property saving services. FRF Commissioner General Thobias Andengenye disclosed at the inauguration of a new court building and foundation stone laying ceremony for the fire brigade centre in Chato district, Geita Region. Mr Andengenye observed that the force currently has 2,154 workers countrywide and recently secured a permit to employ 500 more, but that is still way short of the actual needs. “For the unit to dispense its duties effectively, it demands a workforce of 7,076 staff,” said the commissioner general, in an event graced by President John Magufuli. The new FRF centre in the rapidly growing north western region will cost 943m/-. Mr Andengenye noted, however, that despite the shortage of workforce, the unit has continued to provide all necessary services to the public including raising awareness on preventive measures in schools, individual premises, office buildings, religious institutions among others. He recognized the government’s desire to improve the unit’s efficiency following its decisions to reinforce the unit during the current fiscal year, saying the new workforce will go a long way towards reducing the high demand for manpower. The commissioner general highlighted a number of achievements recorded including the construction of a new headquarters in the capital city, Dodoma, at the tune of 2.6bn/-, set to be completed in January, next year. The FRF has also managed to acquire 18 fire engines, three rescue trucks, an ambulance and a rescue boat, with some support coming from stakeholders. “We also carried out 5367 rescue operations and put out 2060 fires,” said Mr Andengenye, adding that over 683 officers were promoted to different ranks, thus, boosting effectiveness and morale in execution of their duties. More to the unit’s feats, the commissioner general mentioned the establishment of 327 school clubs with 15,230 members, responsible with provision of grassroots education and fire prevention and rescue training to adolescents. “We have inspected 282,591 premises, 12,851 motor vehicles and released 17,714 fire certificates to customers after meeting the requirements,” he further noted. The FRF has also established a college in Handeni which offers courses on firefighting and related areas. On the other hand, the unit has been offering expert advice in the execution of the country’s major projects including the Nyerere Hydropower Project, Standard Gauge Railway line, the Hoima-Tanga Pipeline Project and Terminal III Building. Mr Andengenye revealed that the completion of the Fire and Rescue centre in Chato will further improve service delivery across the country, noting the unit currently has 93 centres. President John Magufuli had earlier applauded the force for collecting over 73bn/- non-tax revenues and for heeding to his advice to partner with the Tanzania Automotive Technology Centre (Nyumbu) in repairing of fire and rescue trucks. President Magufuli said the move would spare the government’s finances that would have been directed to foreign experts. Dr Magufuli encouraged the unit to embrace the challenges they encounter in their daily routine and work even harder. “I am aware of all the blames leveled against you, some of which are not your fault…at times information gets to you late and due to unplanned constructions it may delay to get to the scene,” he said.