KIGOMA residents have expressed joy over the decision by the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) to build new ports, including cluster terminals in various parts of Lake Tanganyika, saying the move will simplify business and improve their lives. The authority, through its Kigoma office, which manages all terminals in Lake Tanganyika, has embarked on improving infrastructures of Kigoma Port, including constructing the new terminal at Kibirizi area and other cluster terminals at Lagosa, Sibwesa in Uvinza District and Kagunga in Kigoma Rural District. Many Kigoma residents, including traders, have told the ‘Daily News’ that previously, transportation from one point to another was cumbersome and risky as some goods fell onto the water due to lack of supporting infrastructures. Mr Kassim Madebali, a trader in Kigoma Ujiji who transports commodities to DR Congo and Burundi, said the decision by the authority to build Kibirizi terminal was commendable as it would help them load and offload commodities from vessels smoothly. “Previously, casual labourers that we hired to load and offload commodities on to and from vessels were forced to go into the water to do the job but now things have changed. Passengers faced the same problem when boarding vessels. We are thankful to the government for implementing the project,” he said. According to Mr Madebali, before the construction of the port’s jetty, they wrote letters to various authorities, including Parliament, complaining about the problem they were facing. Mr Lameck Batuka, the captain of one of the boats plying between Kigoma Ujiji and various destinations in Lake Tanganyika, said before the construction of the jetty at Kibirizi terminal, business was full of challenges, especially related to loading cargo and passengers boarding vessels. A casual labourer, who loads and offloads cargo onto and from vessels at Kibirizi Port, Mr Ramadhani Choyishe, expressed gratitude to the government for implementing the project. “After building the first jetty, vessels can dock and undock without any problem. This makes our job easy. Passengers can also board vessels while wearing their shoes as opposed to previously when they were forced to take them off,” he said. However, he said there was a pressing need for building a modern and wider berth to accommodate as many vessels as possible. In response, the Kigoma Ports Manager, Percival Salama, said the authority had already started constructing Kibirizi Port. The projects, whose implementation period is 24 months, is being carried out by China Railway Corporation. Uvinza District residents were delighted by TPA’s decision to build berths in their areas. Currently, TPA is constructing port infrastructures at Sibwesa and Lagosa area in the district to smoothen operations of vessels. Khadija Hamisi, Scolastica William, Ali Mzambwa and Ramadhani Hussein, all from Mgambo Village where Lagosa Port is being built, said before the construction of the berths, vessels had no ideal places on which to dock. They said due to the absence of proper docking sites, vessels were docking in the outer anchorage, causing inconveniences to passengers and traders. Most ports in Kigoma, Rukwa and Katavi serve people in eastern DR Congo, Burundi and Zambia. Project Manager for Lagosa jetty construction, Engineer Pantaleo Mosha, said the project is expected to be completed in May 2020 at the cost of 12.5 bn/-. TPA, through its Kigoma office, is currently implementing a total of 27 projects in Lake Tanganyika that involve the construction of ports at the cost of over 120bn/-.