SIMBA SC Head Coach Sven Vandenbroeck disclosed that he was not hundred per cent satisfied with his side’s performance despite posting a 6-0 win against Arusha FC on Sunday. Merciless Simba hammered the Arusha-based team at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to cruise into the next stage of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) which was a sweet welcome to the newly appointed Belgian trainer. On target for the hosts were Cletous Chama, Gerson Fraga, Deo Kanda, Ibrahim Ajib, Meddie Kagere and Francis Kahata who contributed one goal each to enable their side emerge massive winners and stand a good chance of being among the active ASFC title contenders. At his first post-match media briefing, Vandenbroeck said he was happy with the outcome but revealed that the overall performance did not satisfy him hundred per cent. “It is a good start for the team but we made several mistakes which need to be addressed ahead of other upcoming games,” the coach said. He added that so far, he has not met with the entire squad of the team since some players were on duty with the national team during the CECAFA tournament. When I meet them all, I will make good evaluation of the team,” he said. On his part, Brazilian Gerson Fraga expressed his excitement for scoring his debut goal since joining the club this season. “We worked hard throughout the whole week to get the  results. I am sure that all Simba fans wherever they may be are happy with today’s performance.” he said. Also, reflecting back on the game was Ibrahim Ajib who said this time around, the team was serious not to surrender prematurely as it had been the case in their previous games. Asked to comment on the upcoming epic derby match against Young Africans on January 4th next year, Ajib replied that they have at least three games to play in between before facing Young Africans,  hence they must complete the three games before thinking about the biggest derby match in the country. However, Arusha FC midfielder Ajib Mohamed said it was not their day to register the victory saying they played against a big club in the country. “We tried to play according to the game plan which our coach proposed before the match but what we expected was totally different from the end product of the game,” he said.