TOP local female runner, Failuna Abdi yesterday failed to shine in the five – kilometre race of the 18th edition of Karatu Sports Festival, after settling third. Failuna, the only female runner who has so far qualified for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games found herself in a difficult position and failed to defend her title. After dominating the race in the early stages she surprisingly wobbled off and was overtaken at the finishing line. Magdalena Shauri and Cecilia Ginoka played their card nicely and took charge of the race at the finishing zone, which witnessed an intensive battle. They finished first and second respectively and brushed aside Failuna’s challenge. Magdalena from the Tan zania Peoples Defence Force (TPDF) clocked 16 minutes: 40 seconds and 24 points, followed by her colleague from TPDF Cecilia, who recorded a time of 16:55:30. Failuna registered a running time of 17:19:80 to settle in the third position. In men’s category 10 kilometre race, Gabriel Geay emerged top after recording 30 minutes: 23 seconds and 94 points running time, followed by Mathayo Sombi, who booked the first runner up position in a time of 30:43:40, while the second runner up went to Faraja Damasi, who clocked 30:45:43. Bahati Masunga from Mwanza won men’s category of the 60 kilometre cycling race after knocking a time of 1 hour: 30 minutes: 33 seconds and 25 points, followed by Richard Laizer, who finished the race three minutes behind the winner. In ladies category, the winner was Esther Laizer, followed by Clara James. Failuna and Alphonce Simbu are the only Tanzanian runners who met qualification mark for the Tokyo Olympic Games and will take part in marathon race. Speaking after presenting prizes to winners, the guest of honour, Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Constantine Kanyasu commended the organisers of the festival. Kanyasu urged the organisers’ to ensure they groom and polish the talents discovered from the event which he said was vital for sports development and promotion of tourism in the country.