I’M one of those folks who like, and generally keep, resolutions literally! I’m also an annoyingly chipper morning person. Like, I wake up singing “Good Morning!” and don’t need to drink coffee. But, I digress. For me, the new year starts in mid- December, around my mum's birthday. I start taking stock in what was the year like, what worked, what didn’t work. It feels organic. And my anticipation for this year was particularly electric. I know there was a lot of talk of how terrible 2018 was. Shoot, I participated in some of that myself. But, the truth is, all in all, 2018 was a pretty good year for me. My 2017 was a banner year for being particularly terrible. Like, super terrible. Like, go down in history with the Titanic terrible. 2018, on the other hand, although a global dumpster fire in many ways, was kind of dope for me. It was a year that answered. I learned a lot about myself and, even when bad shit happened, I often felt incredibly grateful for the life I’ve built, the people that love me, and the person I am and am always becoming. In 2018 I had a goal to read 35 books and I read 28 . I co-edited two books that are coming out this year. I saw my girls bunches of time and got to love them and get loved on. I participated in the commonwealth essay writing workshop and got to meet a bunch of amazing writers. I declared myself a writer. I learned and relearned to trust my guts and reset my boundaries. I laughed a lot. I aim to carry that spirit of self-love, resilience, and general badassery into 2019. I have a bunch of hopes, dreams, and actions fueling this yearly quest. I wonder, how can I love myself even more? How can I show up for myself even more? How can I continue to be a good teacher, sister, friend, and citizen of the world? How can I be even better? For the first time in probably 20 years I have not made a resolution to gain abs hahaha like seriously ! Like I not only desire a flat tummy but gain the abs as well. I’ve been really thinking about how I can recast wellness and health. Rather than thinking of my walks in the park or Zumba as a way to burn off calories, I have been thinking about the joys of moving my body and having fun. Rather than thinking of food as “good” or “bad,” I’m mostly interested in it being delicious. This may not seem particularly profound, but after decades of dieting moving away from that mindset is so freeing. Shit is real out there in these streets. In many of our communities, 2018 (and beyond) will be about our continued resistance to tyranny, fascism, white supremacy, patriarchy and all the other social ills and systemic inequities that shape our lives. That’s got me to thinking about how we have fun. No, seriously. These things aim to kill us and that’s no hyperbole. Part of how we survive this is how we take care of ourselves. What’s my plan for fun? More reading— at least 35 books again. Laughter more often than not. Music. Time with friends. I declared myself a writer in 2015 and I ain’t trying to backslide in the new year. I decided to take my commitment to the next level and participate in a weekly writing challenge: 52 essays in 52 weeks. I’m taking a screenwriting class. I plan on grinding on other projects and working on my craft. And on a real adulting tip, I’m trying to get a handle on my finances. I know this will be a multi-year process because capitalism. But I’m trying to get real about my debt and my relationship to money. Overall , my 2018 resolutions are about recognizing and honoring my dopiness and finding ways to amplify it in a world hell bent on grinding me into the dust. But like an athlete in motion, I’m here with my sneakers ,energy and a bottle of water, ready and willing to take on the challenge. 2019 bring it On!