UNITED Nations Develop- ment Programme (UNDP) Tanzania Country Office has launched an accelerator lab that intends to tackle 21st century development challenges through collective intelligence that will cause a signifi- cant impact on the country’s development agenda. This lab will generate and use real time data and experi- mentation to reemerge sus- tainable development in the 21st century given the fast changing realities of development, as it intends to build the world’s largest learning network around development challenges. UNDP Resident Representative Christine Musisi noted that it was an invest- ment towards innovation aimed at finding locally innovated development solutions, test them, broaden their potential and accelerate them to seal the widening gap be- tween sustainable develop- ment goals (SDGs) and realities on the ground. “UNDP’s global investment in innovation aims at finding locally-innovated development solutions, test them, broaden their potential and scale them up to seal the widening gap between our SDG aspirations and realities on the ground,” she elaborated. She noted that the speed and complexity of today’s challenges were different from the previous eras in history, requiring an equally sophisticated range of development solutions to tackle complex problems and make faster progress on the SDGs. She stressed that UNDP believed by accelerating and mainstreaming innovation in development programmes of the country would realise big picture ambitions in a short time. is commendable. However, it can be increased through innovation and acceleration of local solutions. “To help speed up the implementation of development programmes in the country, the UNDP accelerator lab is tasked to come up with proven solutions for targeted is- sues which can catalyse wider benefits for social, economic and environmental spheres.” She explained that in the first year they would focus on issues of the circular econo- my, including turning waste to wealth, agricultural marketing systems and addressing challenges while harnessing opportunities of urbanisation. launched 60 accelerator labs serving 78 countries to create new capabilities for national partners to respond to expo- nential changes and 21st century challenges. Such as climate change, urbanisation, migration, un- employment and inequality,” she commented. Commission for Science and Technology (Costech) representative and the guest of honour, Prof Mohamed Sheikh, on behalf of the director general, Dr Amos Nungu, said the initiative sought to unlock grassroots solutions empowering inclusive growth and sustainable SDGs and African Agenda, 2063. especially those in rural areas often came up with innovative solutions that they could help solve their problems. “How- ever, the majority of these innovations remain within their localities, but if accelerated may solve their purpose in a large-scale.” “The government has re- alised that promoting innovation and creativity is essential for accelerating development outcomes such as enhancing value addition in key growth opportunities.” He explained that it was recommendable to continue engaging the youth in such initiatives, as they were the future and should participate in planning them.