MANUFACTURERS in Lindi Region have been encouraged to make efficient use of the training on quality standard offered by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in order to meet local and global standards. TBS Marketing Officer, Rhoda Mayugu, said here that the training to manufacturers will increase productivity in the manufacturing sector thus boosting their earnings and contribute to the economy. “The trainings on quality standard mark offered by TBS will increase the value of goods thus enhancing their competitiveness in the local, regional and international markets,” she said during the exhibition and celebrations to mark women day between November 27 to December 2, this year held in Ruangwa District, Lindi Region. She said producing goods that meet quality standards is important also for the health of the consumers and help the war against substandard and fake products in the market. The week long celebrations was an important platform for women to exhibit various products and services, exchange experiences and enter into deals as well as getting new market potentials. Apart from imparting necessary knowledge on how the importance of using quality standard mark on their products, they also used the opportunity to inform manufacturers on the new roles shifted to TBS after dissolving the former Tanzania Food and Drug Authority (TFDA). “We urged manufacturers to use the TBS services that are free of charge to enhance the competitiveness of their products in the domestic, regional and international markets,” she added. She said TBS used the women event to inform them on the plan to initiate customer service desk as platform to forward their complains, opinions and suggestions. The Deputy Minister Industry and Trade, Stella Manyanya was impressed by the efforts done by TBS to empower women entrepreneurs in order to use effectively the opportunities in their surroundings. “The event has been an important platform for women to identify and use various opportunities to increase their earnings and contribute to economic growth,” she said.