I am a newlywed having recently moved to Dodoma and have realised that my husband has a second phone which he also uses. I have spoken to him about it, and now that he admits there does exist such a phone, he is denying access to it saying it is only for official matters. I am certain that he has other side girlfriends and I want to read those messages so that I can take appropriate action. How can you help? Can I get a Court order to get access to such info? I am also thinking of getting a second phone for myself and deny him access. What are your thoughts? KI, Dodoma We have noted that nowadays it is not uncommon for persons to have more than one phone. However, just like you, your husband is entitled to his privacy. The Law of Marriage Act does not provide any forceful provisions that will allow you to get access to his second phone. If he chooses to not provide you access, unfortunately there is not much you can do. Similarly, there is no law that stops you from getting another phone and denying your husband access. It might be wise for you to have an open discussion with your husband and monitor him accordingly. Information access from Ministry, TRA I would like to get information about certain contracts that a Ministry has been entering into with a private company, that are being awarded based on connections. How do I go about doing this? What remedies do I have? I also wish to get certain fabricated taxpayer information from the TRA. Is this possible? GO, Dar The Access to Information Act 2016 has the solution. It is an Act to provide for access to information and define the scope of information which the public has a right to access from a public office or authority. Under this Act, you have a right to request for and be provided information from the Ministry. Whilst this might sound too good to be true, there are exceptions where the Ministry can withhold the information to you for example where such information will undermine national security, impede due process, undermine lawful investigations, facilitate or encourage commission of an offence, infringe lawful commercial interests amongst others. Unfortunately, the list of exceptions is quite long and we are not sure if your request falls under any of these exceptions. We suggest you attempt to seek the information from the information officer of the Ministry. If your request is denied by the information officer of the Ministry, then you can seek a review to the Minister, after which you will need to apply for a review to the High Court. As for getting taxpayer tax info from the TRA, our laws are very clear that this is confidential and you will not be entitled to such information. Tracking down a foreign employee I am trying to track down an expat in Tanzania who might be employed in the agriculture sector. Is there a database of all expats in Tanzania? Is it available online and how do I access it? LG, Dar The Non Citizens (Employment Regulation) Act provides in section 8 that there shall be a register to be known as the Work Permit Register to be kept and maintained by the Labour Commissioner in which shall be recorded information relating to work permit and certificate of exemptions and such other information as the Labour Commissioner may deem necessary. Upon payment of a prescribed fee, a person may peruse the register and make copies from the register. We are unsure whether this register is available online.It is a mandatory requirement under the Act to have one, and you should be allowed access by the Labour Commissioner. Company AGM requirement What does the law say about holding an Annual General Meeting (AGM)? Is it compulsory to have an AGM every year and what happens if the company does not comply? I am a shareholder and another former shareholder still attends meetings whilst he sold his shares to me. Please guide. RE, Dar Section 86 of the Companies Act states that if any person falsely and deceitfully impersonates any owner of any share or interest in any company, or of any share warrant or coupon, issued in pursuance of this Act, and thereby obtains or endeavours to obtain any such share or interest or share warrant or coupon, or receives or endeavours to receive any money due to any such owner, as if the offender were the true and lawful owner, he shall be guilty of an offence, and shall on conviction thereof be liable to imprisonment or to a fine or both. It is therefore an offence for the former shareholder to pretend he is the current shareholder and he can be imprisoned for doing so. Section 133 of the Companies Act also provides on how often such AGMs should be held. It states that every company shall in each year hold a general meeting as its annual general meeting in addition to any other meetings in that year, and shall specify the meeting as such in the notices calling it. At the annual general meeting, the company shall, wherever practicable and subject to the provisions of this Act, transact the following business: (a) to have laid before the members the annual accounts; (b) to have laid before the members the directors’ report; (c) to have laid before the members the auditors’ report; (d) the appointment of auditors for the period up till the next general meeting at which accounts are laid; (e) the re-election of any directors retiring and seeking re-election in accordance with any requirement in the company’s articles of association; (f) the election or confirmation of appointment of any directors in accordance with any requirement in the company’s articles of association. (2) So long as a company holds its first annual general meeting within eighteen months of its incorporation, it need not hold it in the year of its incorporation or in the following year.