THE government has invited youths who participated in the construction of the Great Mirerani Wall to submit their academic credentials as it seeks to offer permanent jobs to the qualified ones. Acting on President John Magufuli’s directive, the Ministry in President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance yesterday extended invitation to 2,038 National Service (JKT) volunteers to submit academic certificates and resumes. The Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Dr Laurean Ndumbaro, however, insisted that only the graduates will enjoy the President’s offer made in April last year. He added the beneficiaries are those who had volunteered for almost two years in National Service dubbed “Operation Magufuli”, and the offer will be the fruits of their patriotism and commitment towards nation building The youngsters are supposed to submit their curriculum vitae and certified copies of their academic credentials to ps@ utumishi.go.tz, from yesterday up to January 1, 2020, noted Dr Ndumbaro. He noted that in the current financial year the government has planned to offer 40,000 new jobs and was optimistic qualified youths from JKT programmes will be absorbed, as he suggested that those with the needed qualifications may not exceed 800. Dr Ndumbaro said that the graduates would be positioned according to their respective professions, with priorities given to fields with high demand. Highly satisfied with the work in building the fort surrounding Mirerani quarries, where the rare Tanzanite gemstones are mined, the Head of State promised to ensure the 2038 youths, who participated in the operation, are rewarded with government employment. Dr Magufuli made the promise when addressing hundreds of residents of Simanjiro during the inauguration of the ‘ Great Mirerani Wall,’ early last year. 20 JKT squads participated in the construction of the Great Mirerani Wall, whose works started November 2017 and got completed by early March 2018. Meandering at nearly 25 kilometres long, the ‘Great Mirerani Wall’ is probably the longest fort ever built in the country, if not in the entire East African Region, with the works being undertaken by the army through the National Service (JKT) arm. Originally, the works were to take six months, from November 1, 2017 to April 30, 2018, however, the wall was completed before February 15, 2018, costing 5.65 billion/-. President Magufuli had ordered the construction of the wall to protect all mining activities at the Mirerani Hills, to curb the notorious gemstone theft and smuggling, at the Mineral Extraction Zone.