AFTER winning the Global Boxing Council International (GBV ) Welter weight title in German over the weekend, Tanzanian boxer Hamisi Ayubu has expressed his readiness to face bigger challenge. Ayubu, famously known as ‘ Hitman the Lion Heart’ registered a fourth-round Technical Knockout (TKO) over Germany fighter Piergiulio Ruhe at his home country, to win GBC welter weight title. “I am so happy and grateful that I have won and brought the title home. It was not an easy win, it came by the grace of God,” said Ayubu. “I have always been eager to excel at the international level although I had won silver and gold medals at my amateur stage. I have been working hard to win an international title… here I am now. Without hard work and listening to my coaches Salum Lukas and Athumani Pendeza I would not have won it,” he added. He is now eager to face another opponent and defend his title. He requests for support from different sport stakeholders for him to keep his feet on the ring and also guarantee his career growth. “I need more support from different stakeholders to boost my career. I would wish to have sponsors, who will offer me an opportunity to defend my title here in Tanzania. With sponsors, I will be able to have more fights with foreign boxers from different continents and win more titles including the WBC,” Ayubu insisted. The young Tanzanian boxer has so far fought 12 bouts, won nine if which, eight by knockout (KO), one draw and two defeats making an average KO's winning rate at 66.67 per cent. Ayubu's victory did not come from a silver platter as he faced several challenges during his training sessions. He said weather in German was harsh. “It was freezing cold but I had to fight and win,” said the 22 year old fighter, who is not well known to many Tanzanians. It was his second international victory. His first came on June 8th, 2019 against Kenyan James Onyango, when he won by KO. According to BoxRec website, Ayubu is positioned as the second best fighter in Tanzania, 268 in the World, while Hassan Mwakinyo holds the first position in Tanzania (pro boxing ratings) after his 18 bouts and won 16 with 11 in KO and beaten twice. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ Pugilistic Syndicate of Tanzania (PST) Secretary General, Anthony Ruta, expressed his happiness on the performance shown by the young boxer, encouraging him to work hard, defend and win more titles. “Winning an international fight is an achievement to his career and honor for Tanzania. It is important that he defends his title and win more titles,” Ruta said.