TODAY, February 20, is ‘World Day of Social Justice,’ which was so proclaimed by the United Nations Organisation (UN) General Assembly on November 26, 2007 with the overriding purpose of getting Humanity to focus on the plight of social injustice throughout the world – and to “press for improvements and solutions” to the plight. The 2007 Declaration focuses on guaranteeing fair outcomes for all through employment, social protection, social dialogue, and fundamental principles and rights. As it is, social justice is defined as including – but is not limited to – “issues of poverty, unemployment and unfair exclusion that results in economic harm and/or social ostracism.” Indeed, social justice as the underlying principle for peaceful and prosperous coexistence among the nations of the World – at least the 193 that are members of the United Nations Organisation, as well as the Organisation’s non-member observer states, namely Vatican and Palestine! [<www.indiacelebrating.com/events/world-day-of-social-justice/>]. In other words: social justice is justice in terms of the distribution of wealth, opportunities and privileges within a given society. It is a concept of fair and just relations between the individual and society, usually measured by the explicit and tacit terms for the distribution of wealth, social privileges and opportunities for personal activity. By parity of reasoning, then, ‘social injustice’ is a relative concept about the claimed unfairness, or injustice, of a society in its divisions of rewards and burdens, as well as other incidental inequalities based on the user’s worldview of humanity. “It is a situation whereby some unfair practices are carried in society. And, whatever ‘unjust’ that is happening is usually against the law and it might not be something that is considered a moral practice.” [<www.studylecturenotes.com/basics-of-sociology/social-injustice->]. Social injustice issues are as varied as they are numerous and complex. But the three most common ones are: • Discrimination: this includes lots of social inequalities on the basis of culture, political inclinations, religion and ethnicity. • Homophobia: this includes injustice against sexual minorities, where hatred is shown towards bisexual, transgender, etc. practitioners; and, • Ageism: a form of injustice in which people, or certain groups of people, are discriminated against on the basis of their age. When it is applied at the institutional level, then it includes restraining the rights of the elderly, or otherwise treating them in a prejudicial manner. [<www.studylecturenotes.com/basics-of.../social-injustice->]. You don’t get it? Well... Beginning in 2009, ‘World Day of Social Justice’ has been observed every 20 February, usually with mass media campaigns to raise awareness generally of the need for better social justice both within and among nations. Annual promotional themes have included – but are not limited to – advocating human rights and removing artificial social barriers based on race, gender or religion, as well as standing up for the rights of migrants, the disabled and the elderly. For example, the theme for 2018 was ‘Workers on the Move: The Quest for Social Justice.’ Other themes (with their year in brackets) were: ‘Preventing Conflict and Sustaining Peace through Decent Work.’ (2017); ‘A Just Transition: Environmentally-Sustainable Economies and Societies.’ (2016), and ‘Ending Human Trafficking and Forced Labour.’ (2015). Tanzanians who may want to celebrate and otherwise commemorate the ‘World Day of Social Justice’ today are counselled to do any – or, better still, do all – the following: • Awareness: raise the awareness of fellow countrymen (and women, to be politically-correct) about social justice and its significance in achieving global peace and prosperity. • Social Issues: address the social issues in one’s community. Issues like poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition, and gender discrimination could be raised through talks and debates. • Volunteer with an Organisation: volunteer to work with an NGO (or any other organisation working on the issues of Social Justice) in bringing about social equality and harmony. Reach out to people in need and address their issues. Volunteer in social justice-related programmes and events. • Promote and protect human rights: social Justice is closely connected to human rights – so much so that one reflects the other. Social justice is automatically brought to a place where human rights are practised and protected... The opposite also holds true. Therefore, promote social justice to promote human rights. • Last but NOT least is to promote self-employment: unemployment is a main factor obstructing social equality. It leads to an economic and social divide, often resulting in criminal indulgences. You can inspire the unemployed youths within the community to set up a small business as a means of income generation. They should be made aware of government policies and support for establishing own or group business. So, off you go out there, fellow Tanzanians, and play your part in taking Social Justice a step further, forward, and to the next higher level in the best interests of the country and its 56-million population...Cheers, anyway!