YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said his focus is on the upcoming epic traditional derby against Simba set on February 16th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yanga revived hopes of maintaining the top seat of the Mainland Premier League table following a hard-earned 1-0 victory over JKT Tanzania at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Sunday. It was the first win for Yanga in their past three consecutive away league matches which saw them drawing two matches against Ruvu Shooting (1-1) and Singida United (0-0). The victory was a big boost for the Jangwani Street side ahead of their massive Dar es Salaam derby and a warning to their rivals, Simba. The team’s young midfielder Feisal Salum netted the only goal of the match in the 26th minute, hence enabling his side to pocket five points from possible nine points after playing three back to back away league ties. The win has seen (Yanga) sit comfortable at the top of the pile with 58 points from 23 outings, winning 18 games, drawing 4 and losing one match. They have scored 40 goals and allowed 15 goals behind their net. Their opponents Simba remain third on the log with 36 points from 15 matches, excelling in 11 games, drawing three and losing one. Moreover, Simba have netted 31 goals and conceding 5 goals in the process. The two giant teams are separated by 22 points. Speaking after the match, Zahera who pretended not to know the date for the derby, said they will start preparation instantly. Asked to comment about the Simba tie, Zahera questioned, “When are we facing Simba?” a reporter replied, “On February 16th” “Ooh, is it? I did not know. Then we will start preparations tomorrow (Monday),” he said. He added that the only difference he observed after the clash was that the referee did not disallow the goal they scored saying in their previous matches, their goals were being disallowed. “We scored in all the past matches, but our goals were not allowed contrary to today. That deprived us crucial points,” Zahera said. He then praised the character of his charges saying despite many challenges they are passing through, they continue to push for victories. On his side, JKT Tanzania coach Bakari Shime said they lacked concentration thereby giving an opportunity for Y anga to punish them. “We will sit back to correct the shortfalls which emerged during the game for our benefit in the upcoming fixtures,” Shime said. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has announced the entry charges of the big match whereby VIP A will be accessed for 30,000/-, VIP B and C goes at 20,000/- while the Orange, Blue and Y ellow seats will be accommodated for 7,000/-.