ADOLESCENT pregnancy is a worldwide problem. In Sub-Saharan Africa, increasing number of girls are becoming mothers by the age of 18 years old. Tanzania as one of the country in Sub-Saharan Africa, teen pregnancy is a very big problem among adolescent girls. Pregnancy during adolescent has been associated with school dropout among girls in Tanzania. In Tanzania, if you’re a schoolgirl and fall pregnant, it could mean the end of your education. Even though successive governments have made a push for girls education, those that fall pregnant are routinely expelled from school, and prevented from returning. According to WHO, approximately 14-15 million teenage girls and young women become mothers every year and this accounts for more than 10percent of births worldwide (WHO/UNFPA, 2006). Teenage pregnancy is a result of early unprotected sexual experience and the mean age of first sexual experience for girls in East, central and southern Africa is considered to be 13.6 years this however not only predisposes them to early Schooling in Tanzania, as in other parts of the world, is viewed as a way to secure a better future. Girls are acutely aware of poverty and the challenges they must contend with in a patriarchal society. They feel family pressure to succeed from families that must cover the expense of uniforms, books, examination charges and tutoring. But poor quality teaching makes academic success extremely difficult. But veering in the other direction by describing girls as “victims” ignores that there may be reasons why they engage in risky relationships. It fails to acknowledge and address structural forces with which girls must contend. Girls already find ways to navigate repressive norms about their sexuality. With the right support and knowledge, they may be able to push back against them. This means support and training for those working with girls to de-stigmatise conversations about sexuality. It means encouraging parents to reflect on how they relate to their children and what lessons they learn from them about relationships. And most importantly, it means finding ways to affirm girls so that they can pursue pleasurable, respectful and safe relationships. Stronger emphasis on secondary school students is vital. Nevertheless, educational programs that promote sexuality education to teenager who are sexually immature are highly encouraged. This is because it might be too late to introduce such a program for teens that are sexually active about prevention methods for unwanted pregnancies. Parents/guardian play a vital role in sexual life of their teens. Parents should be encouraged to educate, discuss issues related to sexuality with their children direct or indirect. Parents and guardians should be educated about the prone and cons of doing or not doing so.