ATHLETES from Arusha region stole the show after excelling in the national Open Cross Country Championship, held at the Moshi Golf Club in Kilimanjaro region yesterday. Arusha managed to take all the six top positions in the senior women (10km) event, whereby in senior men (10 km) event, they took three top positions. The event which was utilised to pick athletes who will form the national athletic squad for IAAF World Cross Country Championship, scheduled for Aarhus, Denmark on March 30th this year, was sponsored by MultiChoice Tanzania and Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA). In women category, Failuna Abdi took the first place in a closely contested race with Magdalena Shauri, who settled in the second place. Angelina Daniel finished third in the event. In 10km men’s event, Deo Damasi from Arusha won the event, followed by his compatriots Joseph Panga and Silvester Marco respectively. The trio were on the lead from the word go to the finish line. For junior women (6km) event which involved athletes aged under- 18, runners from Arusha region continued to shine after managing to scoop all the six top positions of the event. Agnes Protus, Anastazia Ndoromongo, Aisha Luguna, Sarah Hiti and Noela Remmy respectively won the event. In junior men side aged under – 18, who battled it out in the 8 km race, Michael Kishimba from Arusha won the event, followed by Daniel Sinda from Singida, who settled in the second place and Emmanuel Joseph from Manyara finished third. Speaking after the championship, Athletics Tanzania (AT) Second Vice-President (Administration), William Kalaghe said the Technical Committee was due to name the national squad 43rd IAAF World Cross Country Championship. He said the camp for the national team which will represent the country in the world’s event will begin tomorrow in Arusha. The 42nd edition of the IAAF World Cross Country Championships was hosted in Kampala, Uganda on March 26th 2017, whereby a total of 553 athletes from 59 countries took part in the championship. And, in senior men (10 km) event Kenya’s Geoffrey Kipsang took the gold medal and his compatriot Irene Chepet Cheptai bagged the gold medal in senior women (10 km) race category. In junior men (8 km) Uganda’s Jacob Kiplimo, won gold and in junior women, Ethiopian Letesenbet Gidey bagged the gold medal.