TANZANIA is taking part in a 10-month programme of the China Africa Press Centre (CAPC) and China Asia Pacific Press Centre (CAPPC) 2019 that takes place in Beijing under the host China International Press Communication Centre (CIPCC). The programme, which was officially launched yesterday, is organised by the China Public Diplomacy Association (CPDA) and brings together 50 journalists from 49 developing countries from Africa and Asia Pacific. During their stay, participating journalists will have opportunities to visit government departments, think tanks, universities and companies to interact with government officials and attend diplomatic activities to equip them with social skills to work better. Launching the programme, CPDA Vice President, Hu Zhengyue said the programme was held as part of continued efforts to further the relationship China had with developing countries. “China and African countries are both developing countries and have always been partners that help each other,” he said. “We are a natural community of shared destiny and an important power to promote the world to develop towards more fairness and justice. Our long history, splendid civilisations and traditional friendship knit us tightly together.” Mr Zhyengyue was of a view that in recent years, under the framework of Forum on China Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and the Belt & Road Initiative, there had been productive practical cooperation in many areas, bringing substantial benefits to both Chinese and African people. The 2019’s programme becomes the 6th CAPC intake and the 4th one for CAPPC members. It is happening when the world’s second economic giant country marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China. “CPDA will continue serving as a bridge that connects people’s hearts and civil societies,” noted the senior official, narrating that China cherished the friendship and momentum of mutually beneficial cooperation and it will continue to be committed to promoting regional cooperation.” According to him, journalists have to deliver objective messages, promote peace and friendship and facilitate win-win cooperation. China is among the top development partners for Tanzania as it has funded and supports various development projects, a recent one being mega infrastructural transformation that includes the construction of a state-of-the-art modern library to accommodate more than 800,000 books to be more globally competitive. The building, designed to double as both a public library and a resource centre, is to host up to 6,000 people, along with a conference room for up to 2,100 and Confucius Institute Centre accommodating up to 500 people. Another one was the construction of the Tanzania- Zambia Railway Authority (Tazara) that links Dar es Salaam (Tanzania) and Ndola in Zambia. Speaking on behalf of the participants from Africa, Ugandan Mubarak Mugabo said China and Africa had a lot in common ranging from cultures, behaviour and that it was necessary for the two parts to continue cooperating to appreciate these similarities. “We hope at the end of the programme, we will have understood well China and relations with relevant countries in a wider context,” he noted.