MORE than 500,000 people stand a chance to be rewarded by a beverage company in Tanzania after launching a campaign dubbed Coke Studio ‘ UTC’. The launching of the campaign in Dar es Salaam over the weekend is part of Coca-Cola public engagement activities following the inauguration of Coke Studio Africa 2019 where five local artistes are part of it. Speaking during the launch, Nelly W ainaina, Coca-Cola’s Head of Marketing for Tanzania and Kenya said the newly unveiled promotion seeks to reward loyal Coca-Cola consumers for the next 12 weeks and will see consumers walking away with lots of cash prizes, TV sets and Coca-Cola products. “As a brand, we always engage with our consumers at their passion points. W e are therefore using Coke Studio as a platform to give our consumers a chance to win exciting rewards as they enjoy watching their favourite music show. For the next 12 weeks, our consumers will be winning lots of cash prizes, television sets and redeemable products from the wide range of the Coca-Cola product portfolio,” she elaborated. To stand a chance to scoop prizes, W ainaina added, Coca- Cola Kwanza and Bonite consumers will be required to buy any 35 0 ML and 500 ML products while as consumers from Nyanza will take part in the promotion by purchasing the 300 ML and 350 ML glass bottles. Participants will be required to look under the crown to reveal prizes. “W inners will be required to redeem their drink prizes instantly at the retail point, all the cash prizes will be redeemed at the selected Official Coca-Cola distributors while all the TV winners will be rewarded at the plant or Selected Depots. Consumers will be required to be 18 years of age and above to participate in the promotion which is in line with legal and regulatory requirements,” the marketer added. The products that are part of this promotion include Coca- Cola, Fanta, Sprite, Krest, Stoney, Novida and Spaletta Pinenut. This year’s Coke Studio Africa will feature five talented artistes from Tanzania who will showcase a wide range of music genres and sounds from all over the continent/ world.