The EACCM is supposed to submit to Heads of State a preliminary report by September THE East African Community Council of Ministers (EACCM) has until September, this year, to submit to their Heads of State a preliminary report on the envisaged political confederation. This is after the leaders from the six partner states received a report of the council that all partner states had nominated constitutional experts to work on the constitution of the much awaited political confederation, which is a transitional model of the EAC political federation. In their joint communiqué delivered by the EAC Secretary General Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko late yesterday during the 20th Ordinary Summit, the Heads of State appointed the outgoing Summit’s Chairperson, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni to provide political guidelines on the exercise. “The summit directed the council to cause the experts to provide a preliminary report in seven months…it also decided that President Museveni will provide political guidance on the exercise,” said the EAC Heads of State. The experts comprise a 12-people committee from the six member states, whose task is to draft the EAC constitution towards political integration. Its first task is to establish a confederation between countries in the region, currently numbering six with the inclusion of South Sudan, before the attainment of political federation prescribed in the 1999 EAC Treaty. The draft constitution, expected to be completed in three years by 2021, will lay the legal basis for a confederate political arrangement. By definition, a confederation is a group of states united for a common purpose and prepared to cede limited sovereign prerogatives in the pursuit of a specific objective. In the same vein, the Summit considered a report on modalities for the promotion of motor vehicle assembly in the region aimed at reducing the importation of used motor vehicles from outside the regional economic bloc and directed the council of ministers, which comprises the minister charged with EAC Affairs to follow up the matter and report to the 21st Summit, whose date and venue is yet to be unveiled. It also received a report on the review of the textile and the leather sector in the EAC with a view to developing a strong and competitive sector that gives consumers better choices than imported textiles and footwear. “The Summit directed the council to conclude the matter and report to the forthcoming summit,” said the diplomat. Meanwhile, yesterday’s Summit witnessed a change of guard as Rwandan President Paul Kagame took over the chairmanship baton from his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni. In his acceptance remarks, President Kagame noted that Africa was moving ahead with deeper integration in mind. He, however, noted that, this was a time of reflection and stock taking as the EAC turns 20, later in the year. “We have much to celebrate, yet to reflect…we cannot afford to fall behind, when the EAC is making progress,” he said. The Summit also saw Lady Justice Sauda Mjasiri from Tanzania sworn to join the East African Court of Justice (EACJ). She replaces Judge Edward Rutakangwa, whose term at the Arusha based court comes to an end. In attendance to the Summit were Tanzanian President John Magufuli, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta and President Museveni. South Sudan and Burundian leaders were represented by Mr Paul Mayom Akec and Gaston Sindimwo respectively. In attendance also were foreign delegates and members of the diplomatic corps.