LOCAL coaches who attended a week training programme conducted by German coaches at JMK Youth Park in Dar es Salaam have labelled it very useful. The course organised by the Magnet Youth Sports Organisation (MYSO) drew 25 football coaches from different academies in the city. The trainers from ITK in Global Sports awarded certificates to all coaches, who said the course has given them skills they needed in coaching young players. Kassim Liogope from the JMK Youth Park who took part in the training lauded the training experts Andreas Pach and Martin Hammel and said he has benefited much from the training. Responding the experts said they were thrilled with the way their trainees responded to the programme while insisting that the development of football starts from the grassroots level. “The reception from the coaches here was amazing. They showed readiness to grasp the lessons throughout the whole period. I am sure that whatever they have acquired will be used to propel the growth of football levels in the country,” said Hammel. Adding, coach Liogope said he has gained additional skills which will help him a lot as far as coaching young players is concerned. “As you know, Germany is one of the countries in the world reaping tangible fruits from their massive investment in youth football. Here in Tanzania, we need to borrow a leaf from them in order to improve football standards,” he said. In the same token, another coach Noah Kanyaga said football is dynamic as it continues to change with time as such, taking part in similar capacity building programmes will enable them to impart necessary skills to youths. In his remarks, MYSO Chairman Tuntufye Mwambusi lauded all the coaches who took part in the course for their cooperation and said they will continue to run such programmes to reach many youth football coaches in the country. “This is just the beginning and people should be ready for the second phase of the project coming soon,” he said. He added that the next stage would see ITK ambassador Yussuf Paulsen with a Tanzanian origin and plays for Denmark national football team coming in the country to embrace the initiative.