THE East African Community (EAC) secretariat’s quest of combating pandemic diseases received a major boost yesterday after the Federal Republic of Germany’s injection of $14.5 million into a joint programme for communicable diseases. The funding by the European nation seeks to support the community’s efforts in pandemic preparedness and in fighting communicable diseases through a programme dubbed ‘Regional Network of Reference Laboratories for Communicable Diseases’. Speaking shortly before signing of the pact, EAC Secretary General Ambassador Libérat Mfumukeko said the funding will enhance the project’s aim of establishing a network of efficient, high quality, accessible public health laboratories for the diagnosis and surveillance of Ebola, Marburg, Meningitis, Cholera, Tuberculosis and other communicable diseases. “Each EAC partner state has allocated a huge chunk of its budget to fight such pandemic diseases, Germany’s support is likely to complement member states’ efforts,” observed the secretary general. Apart from the health funding, Germany, through KFW, its government-owned development bank based in Frankfurt, further committed $5.5 million dedicated for the continuation of the EAC Scholarship Programme. Implemented by the Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA) and the KFW, the programme seeks to promote EAC’s regional integration agenda by supporting higher education students and their role in fostering awareness for the East African integration process, promoting social change as well as economic growth. “The scholarship programme will target highly qualified candidates in science and technology as we want to exert more of our efforts in industrialisation and the support for the private sector,” he said. Ambassador Mfumukeko revealed that foreign investors have more often than not taken issue with the level of qualification among the regional workforce, adding that the scholarship will address the situation. The secretary general described the Federal Republic of Germany as the community’s responsive partner, adding that the programme will create opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. Yesterday’s event also witnessed the signing of a €13.5 million technical cooperation support deal geared towards supporting the EAC integration agenda, strengthening of the regional quality infrastructure for selected sectors and supporting pandemic preparedness in the region. On his part, German Ambassador to Tanzania Dr Detlef Waechter said German companies were eyeing the EAC market with the prospects of opening pharmaceutical industries in the region. “There’s a big interest from big pharmaceutical industries in Germany to open shop in East Africa,” he said. Germany and the EAC have had strong and cordial relations for two decades now. For the last 20 years, German development cooperation has supported the EAC to the tune of €290 million.