NATIONAL senior team, Taifa Stars, Nigerian tactician Emmanuel Amunike is expected to unveil his team’s programme this week ahead of the final 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers match. Taifa Stars will face Uganda Cranes in their final group L encounter on March 24th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The former Super Eagles’ and Barcelona forward, Amunike who is currently in Arusha with the national U-17 side, Serengeti Boys, is expected to disclose his programme for Stars ahead of their group L AFCON qualifiers match against Uganda Cranes to be staged here later next month. The March 24th game which finalises the 2019 AFCON qualifiers campaigns for group L teams, will be a do or die game for Stars as they need to win the game to book their ticket for this year’s AFCON finals to be host in Egypt. Stars could have avoided in this tense situation if they had won their penultimate round against Lesotho in Maseru in the day when Uganda beat Cape Verde. Stars who lost 1-0 to Lesotho put themselves in a difficult situation that now forces them to beat Uganda at any cost. Tanzania are placed second in the group with five points behind Uganda who have already qualified for the finals after collecting 13 points from five games. Lesotho are placed third despite tying with Tanzania, but superior goal difference favours Stars. Cape Verde are bottomplaced with four points but the remaining ticket for group L is open for any of the three; Tanzania, Lesotho and Cape Verde depending on their last group matches’ results. Cape Verde have also a mathematical chance of progressing to final showdown should they beat Lesotho and pray Uganda to beat or even draw with Tanzania in Dar es Salaam. Meanwhile reports from Uganda unveiled that the Cranes dependable goalkeeper and South African topflight league side Mamelodi Sundowns, Denis Onyango is in doubt of being part of the squad to face Taifa Stars due to hamstring injury. Doctors indicate that the Cranes number one shot stopper Onyango’s injury could take more than 60 days to fully heal, ruling him out of next month’s AFCON 2019 qualifier against Taifa Stars in Dar es Salaam. Although Uganda Cranes have already qualified for the continental showpiece, Onyango was still expected to be in goal having kept a clean sheet in the games played thus far. Should Onyango fail to recover well in time, then the doors will be wide open to Jamal Salim (Al Hilal, Sudan), Robert Odongkara (Adama City, Ethiopia), Charles Lukwago (KCCA, Uganda), Benjamin Ochan (Kabwe Warriors, Zambia) and Isma Watenga (Ethiopia Coffee, Uganda) to vie for the number one slot. Tanzania Taifa Stars have five points and are in a must win situation when they meet Uganda Cranes on 24th March 2019 with prayers Lesotho fail to win away in Cape Verde on the same day.