TANZANIA is among the countries in Africa that have so far accorded higher priority on gender equality, and women empowerment. This is evidenced by the various recent past affirmative actions undertaken by the government at the level of Parliament, Judiciary and Executive for creating a levelling playing field particularly for women and other disadvantaged groups in the society. The government has been committed to ensure that, through gender equality and equity, women of this country become agents of their own development. Hence, to attain that goal, the government has been in the process of engendering her national budget in conjunction with non governmental organisations (NGOs) like TGNP Mtandao and others. The government has integrated the planning and budgeting processes, as well as funding of gender targets and activities for attaining the desired results, and removing Value Added Tax (VAT) on pads last year has proved this success. According to TGNP Mtandao member Ms Gema Akilimali, Gender Budgeting initiatives were first pioneered in the country by the Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP), a Nongovernmental Organisation, way back in 2000 to make sure that the vulnerable also live deserved lives. Such interventions are supported by the government, whereby the Ministry of Finance and Planning in collaboration with TGNP conducted a number of awareness training sessions to the government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), Regions and Local Government Authorities (LGAs) on Gender Responsive Budgeting. Planning and Budgeting Officers were trained on how to mainstream gender in their plans and budgets and following the training, a section was included in the Plan and Budget Guidelines instructing MDAs, Regions and LGA’s to develop targets and activities addressing gender equality issues in their respective institution’s Medium Term Strategic Plans and Expenditure Frameworks. To date, the Ministry of Finance and Planning has continued to allocate resources to the MDAs, Regions and LGAs targets and activities for achieving the long-term desired goals on gender and equity aspects. Integrating gender into the planning and Budgeting Processes Government Budget is the key policy instrument that the government uses to ensure that, targets and activities are accomplished to realise the desired set of national goals and objectives. Over the years, the government has made strides to make gender equality and women’s empowerment as the main instruments for achieving the country’s national economic growth and poverty reduction objectives. Engendering of the government budget is, of course, a complex process that requires a well designed planning and budgeting processes. The government has a good designed planning and budgeting processes in place, which involve many actors at different stages. The government has adopted performance-oriented budgeting and Medium Term Expenditure Framework with the aim of improving service delivery to its citizens both in urban and rural areas. Under the model, each MDA, Regions and LGA is required to have a three years’ Strategic Plan indicating its mission, vision and well articulated objectives, targets and actionoriented activities inline with the national priorities and other sector policy interventions. National and international commitments are reflected in the national Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction (NSGRP) and in the institutional strategic plans. The objectives and targets in the Strategic Plans are reflected in the Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks for MDAs/Regions/LGAs for effective implementation. Hence, strategically these systems in place have been used as an entry point for engendering the national budget. Capital budgeting enables executives to take a potential project and estimate its future cash flows, which then helps determine if such a project should be accepted. The capital budgeting facilitates the transfer of information – from the time that a project starts off as an idea to the time it is accepted or rejected, numerous decisions have to be made at various levels of authority. The capital budgeting process facilitates the transfer of information to the appropriate decision makers within a company. Since a good project can turn bad if expenditures aren’t carefully controlled or monitored, this step is a crucial benefit of the capital budgeting process. Creation of Decision – when a capital budgeting process is in place, a company is then able to create a set of decision rules that can categorize which projects are acceptable and which projects are unacceptable. The result is a more efficiently run business that is better equipped to quickly ascertain whether or not to proceed further with a project or shut it down early in the process, thereby saving a company both time and money. It is well-known that women are under-represented in areas of achievement throughout past history and there are more men achieving distinctions of mental ability, from Nobel-prize winners to ordinary women in our society. However, this has always been put down to poor educational opportunities women have had in the past and to their being handicapped by their upbringing, social pressures and active discrimination from men. It may also be significant that most top positions require an almost selfish dedication and sacrifice of time and energy – and many women choose to direct their energies towards family rather than career or other outside achievements. At times there is a tendency in our society to value scientific achievement above other areas and therefore assume that the people involved in science must be the most intelligent. It then follows that since science attracts more male, than men must be more intelligent, however, there could be other reasons that women are underrepresented in science which have nothing to do with their mental ability.