SEVERAL years ago, Kawe, on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam city, became a theatre of an event that left many people in the country’s commercial metropolis, as well as, inescapably, beyond, awe-struck, as it was fairly widely publicised. A vehicle that had been used in an abortive robbery was abandoned there, one of the striking features being a soldier in uniform, who had been one of the suspected robbers who had been gunned down. There was a ridiculous aspect of the incident; some relatives of the deceased, obviously driven by the all-too-familiar logic (though it is sometimes turned upside-down) that blood is thicker than water, demanded that the State, via the Armed Forces of which the deceased was an employee, foot his funeral expenses. It would have certainly been outrageous for tax payer’s money to be spent on footing part, and maybe the full package of the funeral expenses of someone who had been engaged in a robbery attempt. Armed robberies being what they are, some civilians may have jolly well been killed in the course of the robbery. That would have been most disturbing, for soldiers constitute one of the critical entities of any nation. They are every specific nation’s defenders, in the event of, say, an invasion by the army of a hostile country. Put at the very basic level, whenever a civilian passes by a soldier, the thought that should immediately cross one’s mind is that, that person is one of his most important companions. The importance lies in the fact that should war break out and he is assigned to the war front, he could be shot dead by a soldier of a hostile army. Being a soldier is thus one of the riskiest jobs; being part of a national army is actually one of the noblest, as inherent in it is the likelihood of sacrificing one’s life in the course of defending one’s nation’s sovereignty. If protocol were liberal, I would salute every soldier across whom I would come, as a gesture of appreciation for his or her readiness to sacrifice one’s life as a patriotic duty is no picnic! It may be recalled, indeed, that our heroic soldiers and officers were given a rousing welcome upon returning home, after emerging victorious against the forces of then Ugandan dictator Idi Amin, who had engineered the invasion of the Kagera salient in the late 1970s. Besides military expertise, discipline was certainly one of the crucial components of factors that facilitated the victory. Any manifestations of indiscipline, even by a few soldiers during peacetime, are thus intolerable and frowned upon. Commendably, however, our national defenders are on the whole a disciplined lot. The excellent TPDF commando shows during major national commemorative events give highly delighted civilians an inkling of what the concept is all about. Bravo, TPDF! Discipline enforcement also covers other components of the broader defence and security apparatus; the Police Force and Prisons Department. Any disgraceful deeds by members of any of them raises eyebrows as they are a huge let-down. Rotten eggs within the Police Force, for instance, is a source of deep criticism. The Head of State, President John Magufuli, is on the forefront in condemning unethical deeds, such as some police officers colluding with civilian crooks. One of the recent incidents, last month, involved law enforcers in Mwanza Region who had arrested crooks seeking to smuggle gold worth over 30 billion, but who had been promised a one billion shillings bribe to be let off the hook. He commended the Police Force and IGP Simon Sirro for blocking the deal. At a recent public event Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola declared that he wouldn’t tolerate unethical police officers under his watch. Right on cue, Mr Minister: the Police Force should be one of the beacons of discipline enforcement! The Police Force has, indeed, been at the centre of bitter criticisms from various quarters over its image being tarnished by some rotten eggs within.