MONDAY this week, February 11–the people of Iran celebrated the 40th anniversary of the triumph of their Revolution that overthrew an erstwhile monarchy, know as the Shah. It was an occasion joined in celebration here in Tanzania when hundreds of people attended a grand reception hosted by the Iranian ambassador here, Ndugu Mousa Ahmad Farhang. Given the multitude of people gathered at the reception, it was clear evidence that Iran is at the heart of many people across the globe that applaud its courage to defend its revolution which overthrew a monarchy erstwhile backed by the uni-polar power we have in place today. It was also a very special occasion for Iranians and their friends across the globe who must have been commemorating with jubilation the obvious survival of revolutionary Iran in spite of the hostility from the unipolar power we have in place which appears temperamentally unpredictable and which had earlier sponsored sanctions against the Iranian republic rooted in its cultural heritage of Islam. We will come back to this sanctions phenomenon in the latter leg of this perspective. First, let us revisit the Iranian Revolution 40 years ago. Tanzanian veteran journalists active on duty in February 1979 in this country must have followed with awe and admiration global news agency reports on how the people of Iran, galvanized and inspired by their spiritual leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, succeeded in toppling the American backed Shah in a popular uprising. The Shah ultimately fled the country. This Iranian Revolution in 1979 consequently became the precursor of “Spring Revolutions” that have happened in the intervening period. But what has made the Iranian Revolution that gave birth to the Islamic Republic of Iran so unique is its great sense of focus in terms of education, science and technology in the interest of the development of its people. Soon after the revolution, Iran has been striding forward in nuclear sciences for peaceful energy provision for its people, a stride that has been misread by the West, claiming that it was developing its “nuclear” weapon capability. Mainly, it was Washington that entertained that suspicion, which was apparently fearful that it would be a threat to the security of its neighboring allied states in the area. So Washington had mobilized western nations to impose crippling economic all-round sanctions against Iran; impeding the international community from trading with Iran, sanctions which were recommended to be removed in February 2016 by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Those levels of sanctions preventing other nations of the world from doing business with Iran were clearly inhuman, lasting over a decade. But thanks to the obvious courage and ingenuity of the Iranian people led by their leaders, Iran had survived those sanctions, with no notable breakdown of normal life or collapse of its revolutionary state. If Iran has existed and survived over the last decade of crippling sanctions, if anything, it has been able to acquire experience on living it rough and yet being able to survive. Three years ago, I asked the ambassador of Iran in Tanzania what Tanzanians should expect in terms of concrete development cooperation between our two countries. Said the ambassador: “The Islamic Republic of Iran has new and advanced technology in various fields like irrigation, beekeeping, oil and gas development to mention only a few.” He emphasized: “The Islamic Republic of Iran is ready to share these experiences and vocational knowledge with the people and government of Tanzania.” Then he mentioned bilateral developmental activities between the two countries, which I must admit, I did not know, since Iran did not dance and brag about them! He informed me that Iranian companies are already active in Tanzania involved in downto- earth projects that touch the ordinary life of the people, such as deep well drilling and agriculture. He added: “The Red Crescent of Iran is now in Dar es Salaam to provide health services both on the mainland and Zanzibar.” The ambassador said over ten years of sanctions against his country had stalled the developmental strides between “our two countries but now that the sanctions are behind us and are an ignominious history, relations between the two countries will enter a new phase”. Verily, Tanzania has a lot to learn from the experiences of Iran, especially in the development of this country’s new natural resource of gas, over and above other natural resources of this country. But the courage of Iran to persevere has been and indeed is a comprehensive textbook for all Third World countries. Unfortunately, in the unipolar power world of today where one single super power calls the shots; unlike in the multipolar world of yesterday, courage is missing to call a spade a spade– just as there is total silence on the existence of imperialism today! In the circumstance, it is very easy for one country to be isolated at the behest of a sole super power. But in the same circumstance, one clearly sees the absence of fraternity of the human specie and in its place “big boy” mentality. This unipolar order has brought in its wake, the isolation of other fellow human beings as we all have stood witness. Along with Iran, which has been slumped with crippling sanctions, is anyone within the club of the powers that be sympathetic with the people of the Democratic Republic of Korea (DPRK) as we knew it here then or North Korea? If other nations- especially in the West -are left scot free to make weapons of their choice, why not others? Those reading these lines, watching their TV news sometimes back, must have been grinning on seeing that youthful North Korean leader sporadically gleeful as he watched his army’s ballistic missiles being fired on! Hahahahahah! Why not? But have these missiles hurt anyone? And by the way, what is wrong for one country to culturally adhere to the cultural roots of its people in terms of religion if invariably most of them are Muslims as is the case with Iran? As for the Iranians, since theirs is an Islamic Republic, what is the problem if they are taking education and science seriously in accordance with the first commandment of Islam’s Holy Book, the Qur’an, which says, inter alia: “IQRA”– (Read)- an obvious command from Almighty God to take education seriously? It is time all of us sharing this planet to be temperamentally sober so that we are able to accommodate each other in our diversity. As Iran marked its 40th anniversary of its Revolution this week, all people of goodwill across the globe should wish this country well as it shoulders on in the interest of its people -deriving in its roots and culture- and not being puppets of other peoples or powers. makwaia@spicenet.co.tz makwaia@makwaia.com