PRESIDENT John Magufuli has pledged that his government will continue to honour the discoverer of Tanzanite, Mr Jumanne Mhero Ngoma and his findings, reiterating recognition of the late Mr Ngoma as a national hero. President Magufuli made the State’s assurance during the funeral of Mr Ngoma that took place at his home in Makanya village, Same District in Kilimanjaro region. In the mourning speech read on his behalf by the Minister for Minerals, Mr Dotto Biteko, President Magufuli urged Tanzanians to cultivate a habit of recognising and honouring discoveries made by Tanzanians. “The government recognises and respects the discovery of Tanzanite that was chanced on by Mr Ngoma five decades ago. The discovery brought fame and honour to our country, and as well changing the lives of many people inside and outside the country. “It is very unfortunate that some of us are ignoring the discoveries and inventions made by our fellow Tanzanians, and instead honour those made by foreigners, and we must change this trend and honour our heroes. I won’t be surprised to hear that there were those who tried to belittle Mzee Ngoma’s discovery of the Tanzanite,” said the president. Dr Magufuli pledged that the government will continue to honour his discovery, and urged Tanzanians and all those who would try to ignore his finding of the world’s important mineral that is only found in Tanzania. “May I take this opportunity on behalf of the Government and Tanzanians in general to express my heartfelt condolences to the family of Mr Ngoma following the death of their beloved one,” he added. Speaking on behalf of the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Ms Anna Mghwira, the Same District Commissioner (DC), Ms Rosemary Senyamule said Tanzanians have learned a great lesson from Mr Ngoma, through the efforts he made to make the world recognise him as the founder of the Tanzanite. “Mzee Ngoma fought for his right to be recognised as the founder of Tanzanite, whereby his cry was, at last, heard by President Magufuli, who rewarded him during the occasion to launch the Mirerani Wall in April last year”, she said. In the course, Mirerani Wall was built around the area where only the Tanzanite minerals are found with the directive of the head of state. Ms Senyamule noted that that Kilimanjaro regional administration was supporting all, who have suggested different ways to honour Mr Ngoma. Some suggestions are to rename some of the main streets within Same District in the honour of the Tanzanite founder. The President of the Federation Miners Association of Tanzania (FEMATA), Mr John Bina, said the association would collaborate with the government and other mineral stakeholders to look for ways to honour the national hero, whose discovery had changed the lives and economic well-being of many people. “The discovery of Tanzanite at Mirerani was initiated by one person Mzee Ngoma, whose creativity has been transforming the lives of many people, including children from poor families with the intention to make sure that the National Hero’s good work is honoured in all ways available,” he said. Earlier, in the eulogy in honour of Mr Ngoma that was presented by his daughter, Ms Asha Ngoma, the mourners were made to understand that Mr Ngoma was born on September 25, 1939 in Marwa village, Same District. Mr Ngoma moved with his parents to Mirerani area to look for greener pastures for the family livestock, where he chanced on the opportunity to get his education in Arusha. Mr Ngoma was thereafter subjected to a three months mining course in Morogoro, which led him to discover gypsum in Makanya area in 1966, and later on Tanzanite in 1969. He was awarded a certificate by Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the First president of Tanzania.