THE government in Kilimanjaro Region has requested the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited to help in promoting investment opportunities in the northern region as part of continued efforts to enable the country attain middle income by 2025. Also, it has requested TSN to use their business forums in educating members of the public and development stakeholders on the roles of public institutions that are responsible for collecting revenues. TSN is the publisher of state owned newspapers, Daily News, HabariLeo, Sunday News, HabariLeo Jumapili, SpotiLeo as well as online platforms. The Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner, Anna Mghwira  made the plea yesterday during presentation of preparations of a business forum that is set to be held later this year. TSN will hold business forum in Lindi Region between 25th and 27th March this year, followed by Kilimanjaro Region. “The TSN minutes indicate that the forum will be attended by various government institutions, including Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI), Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), and the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade), so it will be good because their roles will be made clear to the public,” she said. The regional commissioner said some of the institutions have created chaos to businessmen who have failed to understand some roles of the institutions. She said that the business forum that will be held in Kilimanjaro Region will increase efficiency to the region and make it better because there were still some challenges in revenue collections. Presenting the business forum plan, TSN Sales and Marketing Manager, Mr Januarius Maganga said the forum focuses on wananchi, investors and businessmen to utilise opportunities available in the region for promoting business. “TSN has more than 1.5 million readers through its social media platforms, which is apart from its newspapers, including Daily News, Sunday News, HabariLeo, HabariLeo Jumapili and SpotiLeo, thus having a wide coverage which can help in changing the economy of the region in general,” he said. Mr Maganga added that they will be accompanied by some of the government institutions so as to facilitate investors and other stakeholders with the intention of utilising available opportunities to get all the necessary services at a go. He said that researches indicate that some investors have been failing to utilise opportunities available in some regions due to bureaucracy and systems which require them to make a follow up to more than three institutions.