WITH six goals in his kit Simba SC hit-man Meddie Kagere is placed ahead in the race for CAF Champions League’s golden boot. The prolific goal scorer, Kagere is also one the four top scorers in the group stage of the CAF Champions league having netted thrice. Kagere opened his campaign for CAF Champions League’s golden boot in Dar es Salaam when Simba clobbered Mbabane Swallows of Eswatin 4-1 at the National Stadium. Kagere netted the team’s third goal after John Bocco scored the opener and the second goal. He went on to score his second goal in Eswatin when Simba destroyed Swallows with 4-0 drubbing. Kagere scored his third goal in Simba’s 3-1 victory over Nkana in Dar es Salaam. Kagere scored his fourth and fifth goals when Simba floored JS Saoura of Algeria in their first group stage match in Dar es Salaam. Kagere sparkled again in his team’s clash against Egyptian giants, Al Ahly when he netted the winner for Simba. Again Kagere is among the brilliant performers in CAF Champions League’s group stage, tying with three others upfront. According to statistics released by CAF, Kagere has tied with Jean-Marc Makusu of AS Vita Club of Congo DRC, Karim Walid of Al Ahly SC and Themba Zwane of Mamelodi Sundowns. Players with two goals are Anice Badri of Esperance, Ali Maaloul (Al Ahly), Ocansey Mandela (Horoya), Justin Shonga (Orlando Pirates), Mohamed Nahiri (Wydad),Taha Yassine Khenissi (Esperance), Hamed Diomande (ASEC Mimosas), Sid Ali Yahia Cherif (JS Saoura),Jackson Muleka (TP Mazembe), Kevin Zatu (Mazembe), Tresor Mputu (Mazembe). The Ugandan born- Rwandese international has proved to be a worthy buy for Simba, and the fans have not shied away from showing their love for him. Simba fans sing his praises whenever he touches the ball or goes out to warm up. Kagere told Capital Sports that he feels more loved in the streets of Dar es Salaam. “The fans here have a lot of passion and even if you do something small, they will always remember that. Here is not like Nairobi where I used to move freely in the streets and no one stops me. In Dar, if I am going to town for a 10 minute errand, it can take two or three hours. The fans really show they appreciate you and you really feel loved,” Kagere said in his interview with Capital Sports