AL AHLY Head Coach, Martin Lasarte has paid tribute to Simba but attributed his side’s poor form in a stunning 1-0 CAF Champions League loss on Tuesday to humidity and heat. The Mainland champions Simba beat Egyptian giants Al Ahly 1-0, in group D match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, to revive their hopes of the next round berth. Meddie Kagere fired in a spectacular second half goal to spark wild celebrations among the sell-out crowd. Simba registered six points to move second in the group, just a point behind leaders Al Alhy. The victory for Simba came just ten days after they suffered humiliating defeat of 5-0 in the reverse in the Mediterranean resort city of Alexandria. “We played in a very hot weather and insupportable humidity,” Lasarte told the post-match news conference. Adding; “The bad weather especially in the second half affected the players who appeared very exhausted. I played with three central midfielders to avoid fatigue.” The Uruguayan coach also criticised Simba players for wasting time, stressing that their behavior is “completely far of fair play. They deliberately kept tumbling to the ground 15 times to waste time,” he added. “We have lost an important game today (Tuesday), well done to Simba. We played well but we didn’t get good results. Now we have two m o r e games to finish the g r o u p stage, and we are still at the top, we will fight to get good chance of progressing to the next stage,” he said. However, despite the defeat, Al Ahly still tops the tricky group D table with seven points followed by Simba with six points, while JS Saoura, who defeated AS Vita 1-0 in Algiers on Tuesday are third with five points. V ita Club tails with four points hence one point separates the four teams. On his side, Simba Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the victory they posted on Tuesday showed Al Alhy that they are not a team from the village. Simba insisted before the start of group stage matches that they aim to collect all nine points from home soil. They have achieved that in two past home matches against JS Saoura (3- 0) and Al Ahly (1-0), while waiting for the next o p p o n e n t AS Vita next month. At a p o s t - ma t c h b r i e f - i n g , A u s s e m s said the win was vital and helped a lot to show their opponents that they are not a village team. “ T h e y thought it will be an easy game here which in the end turned up to be the opposite. The spirit from my players was positive leading to this remarkable success,” he said. Adding, the Belgian coach who is yet to win a title with Simba revealed that prior to the game, he showed his charges some videos on how Al Ahly played in the previous match. “Through watching video clips on how they played in the game we lost 5-0, we were able to come up with a workable formula to derail them as such, we have made a big achievement today (Tuesday),” he said. He also pointed out that his side started the mach on high foot so as to discomfort the visiting team’s defenders whom he said were nervous under pressure. “The final 20 minutes we had to defend and make minimal upfront moves in order to protect the lead,” pleased Aussems said. He further narrated that with two games to go, Simba now has a realistic chance to reach into the last eight. Adding, Aussems repeated that he already knew that getting points in away matches would be difficult for them that is why, home encounters are beneficial for the team.