THE Court of Appeal yesterday warned lawyers for Chadema National Chairman Freeman Mbowe and Tarime Urban Member of Parliament (MP) Ester Matiko to avoid mixing politics and issues of law. Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Mwanaisha Kwariko gave the warning when hearing the appeal lodged by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), seeking orders to dismiss the appeal lodges by the two senior leaders at the High Court to oppose bail cancellation in a criminal trial. During hearing of the appeal, one of advocates for the duo, Dr Lugemeleza Nshalla, told the court that the appeal by the DPP was lodged with bad faith to torture his clients and that there could not have a government that tortures its citizens. It was at that point that the justices of the appeals court, the highest temple of justice in the country, intervenedand directed the lawyer that, “Stick to the grounds of appeal and issues of law. Take politics to Jangwani.” In the appeal, the DPP, who was represented by Principal State Attorneys Faraja Nchimbi and Paul Kadushi, as well as State Attorneys Wankyo Simon and Salim Msemo, advanced three grounds to oppose refusal by the High Court to dismiss the appeal presented by the senior leaders of the opposition party. The DPP states in the memorandum of appeal that the High Court erred in law and facts by scheduling and calling for hearing the appeal by the two senior officials with the opposition party in contravention of section 362 (1) of Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). He states that the High Court actuated with bias and erred in law and facts by compelling the prosecution to proceed with hearing the appeal against the law. According to the memorandum of appeal, the High Court further erred by not affording the prosecution sufficient right to be heard. During the hearing session, the DPP abandoned the ground relating to bias and proceeded to argue the remaining grounds. Advancing reasons to support the grounds of appeal, the prosecution argued that Mbowe and Matiko could not comply with the law when they lodged the appeal at the High Court. According to the trial attorneys, the two, who are among accused persons in a criminal case pending at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam, were required to file the appeal, while attaching a typed copy of proceeding, order or judgment being challenged.