HAPPY Valentine’s Day! This was said over and over again, between lovers and those in love, this week accompanied with a bright smile and warm vibes distributed all around. February 14 is the one day out of the year when nearly every human being goes out of their way to show their loved ones how much they love them and whatnot. It is the one day where public displays of affection are not only welcomed but highly encouraged and delighted upon especially in this our conservative society. As a Valentine Day sceptic, it was particularly disconcerting to see the older folk, who usually do not display any form of love or affection or even the slightest bit of empathy, talk about love. It was more disconcerting to hear the few government officials who seem to know about love, actually talk about love. I caught myself talking out loud asking a certain ‘Muheshimiwa’ who had sent a message of love as if he actually could even understand the concept of the word, love. But, that’s a topic for another day. The Valentine buzz swept through like a tornado that came down hard and fast, claiming victims near and wide. It would be hard for anybody to not get caught up and find themselves singing along to the love songs. Nobody wanted to be left behind for the fear of not being chic and relevant. I’ve noticed that this buzz is growing exponentially year after year with this year getting to all new heights. The most outrageous display I saw was a couple fully clothed in red, having dinner (read: feeding each other) with the lady holding (read: displaying) a bunch of flowers she had received from her lover. She was smiling, he was smiling. The world seemed like it was a better place for both of them and nobody can deny that. Love does make the world go around. As a sceptic of the actual Valentine’s Day, I was left to my own scepticism in peace. Now don’t get me wrong, I am a hopeless romantic at heart and appreciate displays of affections but I believe that those displays should be 24/7 on a 365 day basis. It is just the way I was raised and it is something that is stuck in my mind that showing someone love only on one day isn’t sufficient. Moreover, is the love being displayed for the intended party or is it for the world to see because most of the displays were actually displayed for the world to see. Anyhow, as much as this world celebrated event is meant to evoke positive vibes, there were many like me, who were not quite up to the love and cheer that the day presented. But that is ok, we left the ones out and about displaying love to their own devices on the fine day in February. Twitter: @ambylusekelo