TWO Kibeta Primary School’s teachers who stand accused of murdering a standard five pupil at the school premises have a case to answer, the court ruled yesterday. Bukoba High Court Judge Lameck Mlacha announced the case finding, informing them of their legal rights, including giving evidence and calling witnesses. Justice Mlacha issued the verdict yesterday afternoon after the prosecution side led by Principal State Attorney Hashim Ngole declared that the republic had closed its case, having called nine witnesses. Judge Mlacha earlier ruled on the admissibility of exhibits, including two sticks and a piece of firewood, which were allegedly used in assaulting the deceased. Testifying, Assistant Inspector of Police Christopher Kapera informed the court that he led a team of detectives to draw two sketch maps at the school and at the area where the body of Sperius Eradius (14), who was in standard five, was abandoned by the first accused, Respicius Mutazangirwa who was serving as the school discipline teacher. He tendered the sketch maps and two sticks and the piece of firewood, which, he told the court, received from pupils at the school. However, the defence team, consisting of four lawyers strongly objected to the exhibits, arguing that when the prosecution witnesses were giving their testimonies, only one item—the piece of firewood—was mentioned as an object with which the first accused used to beat the pupil. They also challenged the witness, Kapera, as incompetent to tender the exhibits because he received them from another police officer. The defence team was composed of four lawyers, including advocate Projectus Mulokozi for the first accused, John Bilakwate for the second accused, Elieth Gerald, and Aaron Kabunga for the second accused as Janeth Rwiza stood for both accused. In his ruling Justice Mlacha elaborated that according to Section 293 (2) of Criminal Proceedings there was no limit for exhibits’ tendering. The judge also ruled that Assistant Inspector Kapera was competent witness. The two accused, Respicius Patrick Mutazangirwa (50) and Elieth Gerald (46) will start giving their defence evidence today. Mutazangirwa told the court that he will call three witnesses and a postmortem report as exhibit while Elieth said she will call two witnesses.