BANANA production is set to increase in Tanzania if farmers use seedlings produced by way of tissue culture currently being popularised in Zanzibar and some parts of Mainland Tanzania. The initiative is championed by a Tanzanian company called Kilimo Organo Limited to increase raw materials for local industries, agricultural exports and farmers’ disposable incomes. Kilimo Organo Managing Director Ammar Mussaji told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that he was confident Tanzania would become a big exporter of bananas and pineapples if farmers embraced the inventiveness that had been introduced to boost agricultural production in line with the national agro-industrialisation strategy. “If our people embrace this farming approach we are painfully introducing, Tanzania will soon produce a lot of bananas and pineapples for local and external markets. I have no shred of doubt on this prospect because Tanzania has a lot of good arable land and hardworking people. All we need to do is to organise and train our smallholder farmers for the prosperous future,” he said. Mr Mussaji said his company was proud of having the latest lab and if the technology was fully exploited by Tanzanian farmers, the sector’s production would grow and contribute significantly to the national economy. “We heartedly support the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli’s efforts of transforming the country’s economy into a middleincome and industrial base by 2025,” said young Tanzanian Mussaji. According to the MD, the seedlings with a tissue culture background are disease resistant, need little or no fertiliser. He said seedlings were planted in only soil-tested plots to stave off guess work and guarantee good harvests to farmers. The company gives extension ser-vices to growers. Bananas are harvested after 12 months, Mr Mussaji said, explaining that a well-kept acre would reward a grower between 13-15m/-and one plant would produce bananas weighing between 35 and 45kg. “If we our farmers can earn 13m/- after 12 months of hard work we can be confident to win our fight against widespread poverty and succeed in our national industrialisation strategy.” The company can produce 7 million seedlings annually and is working with farmers in Zanzibar, Tanga, Coast, Morogoro and Arusha regions. It exports seedlings to Namibia, Uganda, Kenya, Ghana and some Latin American countries. The company was registered in 2015 and became operational the following year and is based in Mikocheni, Dar es Salaam.