PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has expressed his disappointment over the way Siha District Council Executive Director (DED), Mr Valerian Juwal conducts himself by leaving Kilimanjaro Region without notice or permission. The PM reprimanded the DED, urging him to change immediately otherwise disciplinary measures would be taken against him, as he is known for leaving Kilimanjaro Region without getting authorisation from the Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS)’s office. Mr Majaliwa said due to his habit, Siha District Council has ended up collecting a mere 38 per cent of the targeted revenue. He said that is because Mr Juwal has no time to sit down with fellow officials, plan strategies to increase collection or to devise better means to do the same, leading to stalling of development projects. “How comes you – director make up your own decisions and go out of the region (Kilimanjaro) without getting permission from the RAS … by so doing, when will you sit down and set development strategies and how to collect revenue?” asked the PM who was visibly annoyed. He cautioned that he would like to see the Council collects at least 80 per cent of targeted revenue by the end of the financial year, adding that it may not be possible if DED will carry on with ‘business as usual’ mode. Responding to the Premier’s question as to why collection has dropped, Mr Juwal said the Council relied heavily on collection of tax from crops, production of which has gone down due to bad weather conditions, hence low yields. The Council has reduced its collection targets in the 2019/20 budget by 23 per cent. “The Council now faces shortage in collection so the projects that were run by funds from own sources have stalled,” said Mr Juwal. He gave an example of financial year 2018/19 whereby the Council had projected to collect 25,979,489,007/- from different sources so that the funds are used in development projects, but until December last year they had collected 7,517,109,957/- that is only 28.9 per cent. The Council has also reviewed downwards its projections for the financial year 2019/2020 from 1,640,931,500/- to 1,265,000,000/-.