MINSTER for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, has called upon judicial officers to be diligent and serve the people without any form of discrimination and corruption. Prof Kabudi made such an appeal on Wednesday during the launch of a new building in Kinyerezi, Dar es Salaam, which would house the Ilala District Court. Previously, the court was operating at a building currently housing Kariakoo Primary Court. The minister explained that it won’t be good to hear people complaining about judicial officers’ poor performance and lack of moral integrity and make them regret the court to be constructed at the place. According to him, the construction of the court has been made at the right location considering the population of the people and serves the meaning of the judiciary of bringing justice closer to people. “Therefore, I congratulate the Judiciary for this achievement and for bringing justice services closer to people. I ask civil servants and judicial officers, who will be stationed here to serve all people without fear or favour,” noted Prof Kabudi. He also asked people not to damage court infrastructure, including toilets, so that court could easily serve them as anticipated. “I urge you to keep this building in good condition. Do not damage it, even the toilets. Use them well. We should ourselves tell the truth even for things we do not like to talk to,” he said. For her part, Judge in Charge of the High Court in Dar es Salaam Zone Beatrice Mutungi directed the judicial officers to refrain from misplacing case files, as the building has sufficient space to keep everything in good order. “Previously, court officials were working under a very difficult environment. There was no enough place to keep case files. As a result, there were several complaints relating to misplacement of files, a move that opened loopholes of the existence of corruption elements,” said Judge Mutungi. But she pointed out that it was difficult to deliver justice on time without having conducive working infrastructure. She, therefore, thanked the leadership of the judiciary for coming up with strategies of constructing more court buildings in the country. The judiciary has spent 563,689,918/- on the construction of the court, which consists of 1,168 square metres. It was built under Moladi Construction System, which is cost effective and with a fast building technology. There are several other buildings of similar nature that have been constructed under the Moladi system. Among them are court buildings in Kibaha, Kawe, Bagamoyo, Kigamboni and Mkuranga. Other construction works under such arrangements on buildings that will house district courts are being undertaken in Rungwa, Lindi, Kilwa Masoko, Njombe, Kasulu, Rungwe, Chato, Geita, Kilindi, Songea, Mpanda, Sikonge, Simiyu, Longido, Bunda and Bukombe.