HOME grounds provided best results for CECAFA envoys; Gor Mahia and Al Hilal of Sudan as away venue was disastrous to Tanzanian envoys Simba. Playing in the CAF Confederation Cup duels, Kenyan giants Gor Mahia and Al Hilal secured vital three points after posting 4-2 and 1-0 respectively. But the going was very tough for the Tanzanian envoys in CAF Champions League, Simba as they suffered the worst in the cold Alexandria Stadium on Saturday night. Simba were punished 5-0 by hostile hosts Al Ahly in their third Group D match. It was the worst results for the CECAFA zone team. In Nairobi, Kenyan Dennis Oliech wrote his name in football folklore on Sunday evening, scoring exactly 21 years after his brother Steve Okumu scored against Zamalek as Gor Mahia roared 4-2 against the Egyptian giants in their opening CAF Confederation Cup Group D match in Nairobi. Okumu scored as Gor beat Zamalek 1-0 in Nairobi in 1998 and his younger brother, making his continental debut for K’Ogalo scored the fourth in Gor’s entertaining win at the Kasarani Stadium. He celebrated in the exact same way his late brother did. Gor Head coach Hassan Oktay was impressed with the result and hopes his side can continue with the form as they travel away to Angola to face Petro Atletico in next match week. “I was expecting this win because we did some good homework on Zamalek and watched their game against Pyramids (in the Egyptian league) and two other teams. We knew the way they play and tactically we were ready for them. I knew we could get something and I am happy with the players,” Oktay noted. Jacques Tuyisenge brought his side level pouncing on a flicked ball from Nicholas Kipkurui inside the box before slamming past the keeper. Tuyisenge then sent Gor ahead after 38 minutes when he flew to head in a cross from Boniface Omondi who had been sent through with a delightful ball by Kahata. Gor’s joy of a second goal was short-lived though as Hassan slalomed his way through the defence before beating Oluoch with a decent shot. But, in the second half, Gor came back stronger and needed just six minutes to get back ahead, this time Tuyisenge turned provider to whisk in a brilliant cross that was met by a stinging header from Kipkurui. Gor were forced into a sub in the 62nd minute when Kipkurui hobbled off injured and was replaced by Oliech for his continental debut for the Kenyan giants. Oliech made his presence felt upfront and five minutes after coming on, he showed his superb pace racing away to try meeting a Kahata through pass, but the ball was too close to the keeper who came off to collect.