THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, says the government is in the process of reviewing the country’s cultural policy to make it cope with the current situation as well as reflecting on the future of culture in Tanzania. Dr Mwakyembe asked cultural officers from across the country to seriously digest all issues that are perceived to impede the country’s culture, so that the new policy addresses them. He was speaking when officiating a two-day working meeting for cultural officers from all district councils countrywide which kicked off in Dodoma yesterday. The meeting that climaxes today was organised by the ministry to discuss opportunities and challenges facing the cultural sector. In their deliberations later today, the officers who have been invited by the ministry from all regions, will propose means for overcoming the sector’s hallenges, discuss how best to supervise ethics in Tanzania, sensitise people on the proper use of Kiswahili language as well as discuss how to maintain the best cultures and traditions that suit the Tanzanian community. According to Dr Mwakyembe, over 150 participants would go through the proposed draft policy and assess all the views from various stakeholders before suggesting how best the policy should appear. “The draft policy is now at an advanced stage and we believe that after being subjected to all the processes, we will come up with the best document,’’ he said. Themed ‘Unity Love and Work: the Origin of Our Culture’ , seven papers on cultural issues would be presented, according to the minister. Dr Mwakyembe asked participants to avoid trading blame but instead concentrate on discussing issues that would improve the nation’s culture. “Culture is an indicator of the country’s life and any nation that lacks culture cannot be regarded as a living country,’’ said the minister. Dr Mwakyembe asked all the cultural officers to emulate the spirit of President John Magufuli who has always been encouraging hard work. He said the country could develop economically, politically and socially only if all workers in the ministry were dedicated to hard working, love and respect.