A NEW report released this week by the Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF) indicates that the innovation ecosystem in Tanzania has developed rapidly over the past five years, with increasing numbers of individuals and institutions stepping up and becoming more active, visible and connected than ever before. Titled ‘Investing in Social Innovation and Technology in Tanzania’, the report aims to act as a catalyst for change by increasing knowledge and understanding about the complex practice of social innovation in Tanzania. Launching the report during a one day media workshop held in Dar es Salaam recently, HDIF team leader, Mr David McGinty said, “Over the past five years, we have had the great fortune of supporting Tanzanian innovators to bring their ideas to fruition and test out new ways of doing things. Innovation is risky, and whilst there have been some big wins and success stories, there are times where things have not worked out as envisaged – but we have learned a lot in the process.” He said during that time the country’s ranking in the Global Innovation Index has climbed 27 positions (from 123 in 2013 to 92 in 2018). “New start-ups and hubs are cropping up every day, and there is a growing awareness of the role that innovation can play in finding solutions to large and pervasive development challenges,” he said. He however noted that whilst Tanzania has progressed, the innovation ecosystem was still in its early stages where institutions are constrained by limited resources and competing priorities. He urged HDIF partners to reflect on the recommendations and to consider how they can be applied to support social innovation that creates real and lasting change, now and in the future. The report makes several practicable and actionable recommendations based on HDIF’s collective insights that aim at removing barriers to scaling innovation. It also shares lessons HDIF has learned and makes recommendations based on experiences of identifying and nurturing diverse talent and empowering a new generation to drive social innovation in Tanzania. “HDIF is a proud champion of some of the most inspiring and creative Tanzanian innovators in the country – individuals and organisations who are committing time, energy, and resources to help address some of the country’s toughest development challenges,” he said. He noted that HDIF intends to share what it has learned for others to capitalise on, to help ensure that mistakes are not replicated, that limited resources are used effectively, and to take best practice approaches to scale. Natalie Smith, on behalf of UK Aid Tanzania, commented on the report, saying that “The UK is proud to have supported some truly inspiring innovators in Tanzania over the last five years, whose ideas are increasing people’s access to basic services and improving lives across the country. We are excited to share what we have learned through this report, and to encourage others looking to support innovation in Tanzania”.