THERE is a lot of talk about the country’s commitment to prepare Serengeti Boys for the ultimate soccer tournament of their life when they become part of Tanzania’s hosting role in the continent’s U-17 African Youth Championship in Dar es Salaam in April this year, slightly over a month away from today. As part of their preparation for the tournament, they are expected to play a number of trial matches in Turkey, one of Europe’s well organised soccer development programmes before they move on to another country in their last week of preparation. In fact, nothing will make Tanzania’s first ever role as the continent’s soccer hosts, than Serengeti’s success not to win the coveted AYC trophy, but rather to keep Tanzania soccer fans streaming to the selected soccer venues from the opening to the end of the soccer tournament. I’m saying that because we all witnessed, recently, how the SportPesa soccer tournament was poorly attended after Tanzanian soccer clubs were knocked out of the tournament by those nondescript Kenyan sides. Now for local soccer fans to keep on streaming, endlessly, to selected soccer venues in the country, Serengeti who got their name from arguably one of the best national parks in the world need to remain in the tournament beyond the semifinal. They need to play to the final and whatever happens in the final Tanzania fans would be least disturbed, that’s, even if they became losers in the final. The beauty of playing to the end of the tournament is that they would create, for themselves, the all-important golden opportunity of showcasing their talent to the global soccer market less than three months before the advent of this year’s summer when topflight premier league clubs in Europe are expected to shop for young soccer talents. Indeed, for our boys to succeed in their respective lives. The focus ought and must be away from the chaotic scene at home where only three clubs are capable of providing what a semblance of a well-paid job where ‘success’ is a possession of an imported used car from Japan. But for them to succeed both as professional soccer players and decent employees, they have to play in Europe, and they can only secure such high profile employment only if, as I have already said, they played to the end of the tournament. Serengeti Boys should actually thank both their country and the continental soccer body, CAF, first for accepting Tanzania’s request to host the youth soccer tournament, and secondly, for allowing the AYC to take place in April when scores of soccer talent scouts are expected to troop into sweat sweltering city which is also known as the Haven of Peace to witness the display of soccer talents from eight best U-17 players in the continent. The more they stay in the tournament, the more they would be able to show-case their talent and by extension, the more they are likely to be picked by scouts, hence turn their lives from the proverbial rags to riches. Two of the Serengeti Boys players are already abroad playing in Denmark. But they also stand a chance of moving away from Denmark to France, England, Germany or Spain if they raise their game above the rest of the pack in April, this year. In short, the ball is in their court. Yet the invaluable ticket for getting Serengeti Boys to the final is presently deposited in Turkey and the next stop in Europe. What they now need to do is work as hard as they can; they need to learn new techniques and tactics. But more importantly, they need to refine whatever they have learnt to date. Yes, they need to play not only harder, but more sophisticatedly, so that when they finally meet their African opponents in the AYC. They should be in a position to demonstrate that they have finally come of age and that they no longer belong to Africa, but rather to countries which have the best leagues in the world. And, the world’s best soccer playing nations are presently located in Europe, the home of the past Fifa World Cup winners in the tournament which was held in Brazil in 2014 and Russia in mid last year. If our boys succeed in putting their all in order to get picked up for the best clubs in Europe, they would, without their knowledge, find themselves not only getting what they have always dreamed in their lives, contracts from best soccer clubs in the world, but would also end up winning the tournament’s coveted crown. What Serengeti Boys need to know is that they would be ranged against the best youth teams in Africa that include multiple AYC winners, Mali. The qualifiers for the AYC soccer tournament to be held in Tanzania in April this year are Tanzania, by virtue of playing hosts to the tournament, Morocco, Senegal, Nigeria, Uganda, Cameroon, Angola and Mali. Now what Serengeti Boys need to know is that what they are being taken through by their country, training in European countries is also being done by the other seven qualifiers by their respective countries. In fact, other seven qualifiers which include countries which have always qualified for this particular tournament, countries like Mali, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal and Cameroon are so experienced in this particular tournament that they have all experts at home and their team may not need to go abroad for such training stints. And this explains why I have repeatedly stressed the need for Serengeti Boys to work harder than the other seven qualifiers who may already be better prepared than them for the Dar es Salaam soccer tournament. For a start, they need to realise that Uganda which had beaten them in the CECAFA final to win the regional soccer tournament is also in the tournament. In the April soccer tournament, Serengeti Boys will also need to bear in mind that they would be facing very tall players from Mali, well-built players from Cameroon and Nigeria and ball jugglers from Morocco. The four teams with different bodies would require them producing the kind of approach that is fast, skillful and execute more intelligent play if they want to do well against such opponents with different body build.