FOR proper implementation of the country’s blueprint for an improved business climate, the government has developed a Comprehensive Action Plan (CAP) for Business Environment Reforms in Tanzania (2018/2019-2020/2021), which among other things recommends on how best business environment and climate can be improved. The plan was prepared by the Ministries Department and Authorities (MDAs) and the Private Sector in collaboration with Economic Social Research Foundation (ESRF), the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) being the coordinator. Presenting the plan at a working meeting here between Permanent Secretaries (PSs) and Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of public institutions at the weekend, University of Dar es Salaam senior lecturer, Prof Amon Mbelle said CAP was a hybrid of key reform processes. According to Prof Mbelle, who led a team of experts commissioned by ESRF, a comprehensive approach was required in addressing both business climate and business environment and that competitiveness had been given huge gravity in the CAP. The government came up with a blueprint to facilitate business environment and climate in the country which among other things proposed several regulatory reforms. The regulatory reforms under the blueprint included addressing multiplicity of levies, charges, fees, licences and permits and multiplicity of regulatory authorities. Others were streamlining and harmonising regulatory procedures for starting and operating business. Prof Mbelle said, however, that the initial implementation of the blueprint had resulted in to notable improvements. “The blueprint needs to be moved forward by an action plan because the former set a framework and benchmarks whose implementation needs CAP,’’ said Prof Mbelle. According to him, the first draft of CAP was presented at a meeting in Dodoma where about 90 stakeholders attended and provided their views on how best it could be improved to produce positive results immediately after its implementation. The working meeting in Dodoma at the weekend was chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Coordination and Investment), Doroth Mwaluko. Before coming up with the second draft of the CAP, ESRF’s team of experts met various stakeholders for consultations, including representatives of the World Bank, the Private Sector and European Union (EU) delegation, according to Prof Mbelle. According to a representative from the PMO, Christopher Mramba, the implementation of CAP would help the country to attain its objective to reach a double digits figure on the yearly publication of the World Bank’s Report on Ease of Doing Business after a comprehensive assessment on 190 countries. “CAP intends to increase efficiency in service delivery to the private sector by reducing time and cost of doing business and investment in the country,’’ said Mr Mramba.