THE World Bank (WB) in Tanzania said yesterday that there has been a big response from development partners continuing to support the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) programme after it has attained significant achievements. WB’s Team Leader for Tasaf programme, Mr Mohamed Muderis said this yesterday, commending the government for close supervision of the programme which helped to reach such successes. Meanwhile, he advised the government to put in place strategy that would enable effective implementation of second phase of the TASAF III which is expected to start in the near future. “The issue of consistent flow of funds to finance activities of the programme will enable it serve more people,” he said. State House Permanent Secretary, Dr Moses Kusiluka assured the development partners that the government recognizes their contribution in achieving goals in fighting poverty through the TASAF. Dr Kusiluka said government’s efforts to alleviate poverty among the wananchi have been successful, praising the cooperation between the development partners and the government. The Permanent Secretary made the remarks when met with the management of the TASAF and various development stakeholders in Dar es Salaam. He met the latter as part of monthly meetings to discuss implementation of the TASAF programme. “The government is determined to closely supervise the implementation of the TASAF programme,” he assured. TASAF’s Executive Director, Ladislaus Mwamanga also concurred with Dr Kusilika, saying achievements attained during the implementation of the programme were result of collaboration between the government and stakeholders. The programme has managed to serve at least 1.1 million families, which is about 70 per cent of villages countrywide. TASAF III has four components, including the Productive Social Safety Net (PSSN), which is made up of a basic grant (unconditional cash transfer), a conditional cash transfer and a public works subcomponent. Others are to enhance livelihoods and increasing incomes, which involves community savings and investments and livelihood enhancing grants as well as building capacity.