SHORTAGE of architects, quantity surveyors and allied professionals in Tanzania has compelled the Architects and Quantity Surveyors Registration Board (AQRB) to conduct sensitisation seminars in secondary schools to inspire science students to join the cadre. Available statistics by the board indicate that there are only 474 registered architects and 427 quantity surveyors countrywide with 230 and 130 registered firms for architects and quantity surveyors, respectively. “It is due to the shortage of experts in the fields of architect, quantity surveying and allied professionals that the board decided to conduct the sensitisation seminars for science students in secondary schools,” the AQRB’s Training and Research Officer, Architect Matondo Daniel, remarked. Arch Matondo made the comments in Dar es Salaam yesterday on the sidelines of a public awareness campaign for students undertaking science subjects at Azania Secondary School. According to the official, the board initially focused on encouraging Form II students to opt for science subjects when joining Form III so as to enable them to pursue science related courses in higher institutions of learning. “We did a lot of sensitisation, including essay competitions for Form II students but we have now decided to expand the scope to students who are already undertaking science subjects in advanced secondary level,” he explained. Apart from shortage of architects and quantity surveyors, Arch Matondo said Tanzania had only 27 registered building surveyors, four landscape surveyors and four contract surveyors. “The number of experts in this profession is small compared to demand of the market. The other challenge we face is that many people are unaware of the significance of our services in the construction industry,” he pointed. Global standards require that one architect should serve at least 1,000 people but given the number of the experts in the country versus the population which is about 50 million people, it means that one architect serves close to 100,000 people in Tanzania. Speaking in an interview, a Form VI student undertaking PCM (Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics), Mr Godlove Kapufi, was glad that the seminar enlighten the students to widen their options of courses in higher institutions of learning. “My dream was always becoming an architect but I never had available information on the profession. Many of my colleagues are also pursuing science subjects but are not well informed on the wide range of available courses,” he stated. Another student in Form V, Mohamed Feruzi, urged the government to train more science teachers to improve efficiency in teaching of science subjects.