SIMBA kept alive their chances to earn a place in the last eight stage of C AF C ham pions League thank s to a 1-0 win over m ighty Al Ahly of Egypt at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Meddie Kagere fired in a spectacular second half goal as Simba registered six points to temporarily move second, in group D, just a point behind leaders Al Alhy. Simba just need a win in their remaining two matches to earn a place in the quarterfinals of the continental top tier club championship. It was a relief and at the same time befitting revenge for Simba, who suffered a shameful 5-0 defeat at the hands of the record eight times Africa champions away in Alexandria about ten days ago. Al Ahly came into the match oozing with confidence after securing a big victory against Simba at home. The visitors started on a front foot as Egyptian attacking midfielder, Kareem Nedved, who netted twice against Simba, was exploiting well, poor marking by Asante Kwasi on the left side, causing a lot of problems for Simba in an early opening exchanges. Just a minute from the onset, Simba were forced to an early error, when Nedved drove past Kwasi Asante and his cross in was parried off by goalkeeper, Aishi Manula. Simba responded in the 3rd minute but James Kotei’s long shot went way wide. In the 9th minute, a real chance came for Simba to score. A short corner kick by Clatous Chama found Kwasi in space before the Ghanaian set up Emmanuel Okwi and the Ugandan unleashed a ferocious ground shot that was well gathered by the keeper Mohamed El-Shennawi. Simba gained confidence from the move and the tail was up. Another clear chance for Simba came in the 12th minute, when Kagere raced to a Chama’s through pass but the striker was forced to a tight ankle by the keeper. However, Kagere kept his composure, forcing his was into the six yards before firing a fierce shot that was parried off by keeper. Lots of pressure was now coming from Simba and in the 14th minute central defender Pascal Wawa’s shot came off a defender for a corner kick. Al Ahly striking force led by Ramadan Sobhi, Junior Ajayi and Hussein Elshahat tried every trick in the book but they could not crack this Simba defensive wall which was brilliantly led by Pascal Wawa and Jjuuko Murshid. Yesterday, the Msimbazi Reds defence played with much discipline with an exception of Kwasi, who gave fans some moments of goose bumps with his lackluster defending. In the 31st minute, Nedved raced past leaky Kwasi but his diagonal shot failed to hit the target. Injured Kwasi was later replaced by assistant captain, Mohammed Hussein, who played with lots of discipline. Burkina Faso import Zana Coulibaly defied the odds, as he displayed a disciplined performance. Five minutes before the breather, Simba made another nice move, when Mkude won a battle in the midfield, set up Chama who quickly released Kagere on the right, but his shot was stopped by keeper to corner kick. Immediately after the break, Simba survived a major scare, as they lost possession at the opponents’ final third and Ahly played a long ball in front for swift counter attack thanks to Manula’s brilliance who collected the ball from the legs of Sobhi. A minute later, Simba replied with a fierce attack but Okwi hit the side nets. And in the 49th minute, Simba put another brilliant attack. Kagere drove wide on the left and teed up Bocco but the striker’s shot came off the frame of onrushing goalkeeper. Simba slightly pulled leg off the gas as Ahly were now frequently pushing forward. Against the run of play, Simba snatched the winner in the 65th minute. A long cross in by Coulibaly was chested down by Bocco and Kagere smashed in at the near post. In the 76th minute Kagere fierce shot sailed wide and Coach Patrick Aussems introduced Hassan Dilunga for Bocco in the 81st minute.