TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) expects to sign a trade and investment deal with Hong Kong Trade Development Council (HKTDC) to attract more investors into the country. The envisaged pact will likewise open up opportunities available in Hong Kong to the Tanzanian business community. The deal comes as the number of visitors from Hong Kong has almost tripled after Tanzania introduced the Honorary Consulate in the Chinese City. In a positive gesture towards future trade and business ties between the two entities, business and investment delegation from the Hong Kong has arrived in the country for trade and investment exploratory visit. The seven-person delegation is on a three-day visit that started yesterday, looking at three areas of interests for investment— agro-processing, tourism and pharmaceuticals. At TIC’s headquarters in Dar es Salaam, the representatives of the business people and investors of Hong Kong met the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Investment, Angellah Kairuki. Shortly after meeting the delegation, Ms Kairuki told reporters that the visitors were willing to invest in cashew nuts processing factories. Speaking over the benefits from the envisaged investments by the Hong Kong people, the minister said the country will increase its Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) and create more jobs for Tanzanians. He assured the investors of improved trade and investment environment, saying the government is currently implementing the ‘Blueprint’ initiative which aims at addressing the shortcomings. The deficiencies include bureaucracy, delays in issuance of land title deeds and others. TIC Executive Director Geoffrey Mwambe appreciated Dr Annie Wu, the new Honorary Consul of Tanzania in Hong Kong and Macau for the good work she is doing in attracting investors and visitors to the country. Mr Mwambe explained that the introduction of the Consulate in Hong Kong has cemented relationship with Tanzania, easing arrangements for investors from Hong Kong to Tanzania. Head of Hong Kong delegation Jessica So said, “We are committed to deepen our relations with Tanzanians.” Meanwhile, Ms Kairuki and her Finance and Planning counterpart Dr Philip Mpango plan to visit Arusha region to speak to business people and investors as well as listen to their grievances. After Arusha region, the ministers will move to other regions on similar missions.