THE campaign to promote Tanzanian wines has received a big boost after a local producer based in Dodoma came forward yesterday to support the initiative. The company, Alko Vintages Co Limited which produces a variety of premium quality wines including the popular in-flight Image brand served on Air Tanzania, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the event that the initiative has come at the right time. “We have invested a lot in terms of money, expertise and state-of-the-art technology and so I urge Tanzanians to develop a culture of consuming locally made wines as currently over 70 per cent wine consumed in the country are imported while grape growing in the country can support 80 percent and more of the Tanzanian market share”, said Mr Archard Kato, the company’s Managing Director. The campaign dubbed Mkeka na Mvinyo was launched in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday this week with the first event planned for February 14 at the Whitesands Hotel to mark the Valentine Day. He said that the Alko Vintages produces good quality wines which are consumed in the local market with Dompo as the flagship brand which has been a house-hold name for the last decade. “We are excited to be associated with this novel idea which complements government’s agenda on industrialization by giving the local producers an opportunity to sell their wine which is revered all over the East and Central African region but consumed very little by Tanzanians”, said Mr Archard Kato. He said that increased consumption of Tanzanian wines will also translate into famers selling more grapes thus improving their household income as well as poverty reduction. “Let’s support our fellow Tanzanian grape farmers and the nation in general by consuming local wines which are of top quality”, he said. The event organized by Real PR Solutions (RPR), an integrated communications company aims to make the Valentine Day a memorable one with the loved ones sitting on mats while sipping the world-class wines produced in Tanzania. On her part, the Event Coordinator, Ms Caroline Kirwanda, said that similar events will also be held during Easter, Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) at Saba Saba grounds and during the festive season in Dodoma, Arusha, Mwanza, Kagera and Kilimanjaro regions. Ms Caroline said that the themed “Wine Not?” event also helps to unlock a broken supply chain between grape farmers, mainly in Dodoma whose produce have fetched very low price as the producers are unable to sell in large numbers due to low local consumption of wine.