IT is getting closer; that sounds the best description of the envisaged East African Community’s (EAC) single currency. The bloc’s Heads of State have already assented to the East African Monetary Institute Bill, 2018 that is largely viewed as crucial and an initial step towards the quest for the six partner states’ single currency. President John Magufuli and his Kenya, Uganda and Rwandan counterparts Uhuru Kenyatta, Yoweri Museveni and Paul Kagame, respectively, among other EAC leaders inked the Bill paper, giving green light to the integration process. Burundi’s Pierre Nkurunziza and South Sudan President Salva Kiir were represented at the signing by their First-Vice President Gaston Sindimwo and Minister for Trade and East African Affairs Paul Mayom Akec, respectively. The Bill that was introduced by the then Chairman of Council of Ministers, Dr Kirunda Kivenjija on February 8 last year in Kampala, was passed by the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) in Dodoma in April last year and had been waiting for the presidential blessings. The EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko, announced on late Friday that the Summit had assented to the bill. “The Summit assented to the EAC Oaths Bill, 2018; The EAC Monetary Institute Bill, 2018; and the EAC Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2018,” said Ambassador Mfumukeko at a packed Arusha International Conference Centre’s Simba Hall, after attendants had waited from about 0900 to about 1727 for the Heads of State to come out of a closed door deliberations at the same building. The new EAC law paves way for establishment of the East African Monetary Institute (EAMI) as the community’s entity responsible for preparatory work for the EAC Monetary Union. As per Article 23 of the Protocol on the EAC Monetary Union, the Bill is expected to provide for the functions, governance and funding for the institute as well as other related matters. In the run-up to achieving the single currency, the EAC partner states aim at harmonising monetary and fiscal policies; payment and settlement systems; financial accounting and reporting practices; policies and standards on statistical information and establish the East African Central Bank. EALA Speaker Martin Ngoga, showing how important the Bill was, applauded the house immediately after its passage, saying “This is a critical Bill for the region and for the third progressive pillar of the Monetary Union. I thank the EAC Council of Ministers for initiating the Bill and the General Purpose Committee for scrutiny and I look forward to its assent.” Article 23 of the Protocol on the Establishment of the EAC Monetary Union enjoins the Summit on the recommendation of the council to establish the EAMI, responsible for the preparatory work for the East African Monetary Union (EAMU). The Bill was preceded by a report of the Committee on General Purpose presented by the Committee’s Chairman, Mr Abdikadir Aden. The report that accommodated public views made some salient amendments to the clauses of the Bill for further relevancy. The Committee sought the views of various stakeholders, including the East African Business Council (EABC) and the Bankers Associations as well as other stakeholders. The EABC urged the EAC and EALA to expedite implementation of the Bill that was said to be overdue and according to the timeframe, it was meant to have been in place in 2015. It was pointed out that the functions of the institute could be expanded to include, among others, attainment of macroeconomic convergence criteria and determination of conversion of rates and design of the single currency. EAMU is an important stage in the process of EAC Regional Integration. The EAMU Protocol that lays groundwork for the monetary union within ten years and allows the EAC partner states to progressively converge their currencies into a single currency in the community was adopted in accordance with the EAC Treaty and signed on November 30, 2013. Meanwhile, the new Summit Chairman, President Kagame and other five leaders assented to the EAC Oaths Bill, 2018 paving way for employees of the community and persons giving evidence before the East African Court of Justice (EACJ), the Assembly and related quasi bodies to swear oath of affirmation. For the EAC Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2018, the Summit approved the EAC budget for additional expenditure of the organs and institutions of the community for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.