LIVESTOCK keepers in the country have been tasked to identify idle plantations and areas that no longer serve as protected game reserves for reallocation to animal keepers.  Livestock and Fisheries Minister, Luhaga Mpina, speaking at a meeting with residents surrounding Maswa Game Reserve in Simiyu region, told wananchi to constructively argue for the land reallocation as per President John Magufuli. Accompanied by seven other ministers in a tour that aims at addressing land disputes in the country, Mr Mpina cautioned residents against organising rallies to support the presidential directives and instead use the remaining time to identify areas, which “You think should be transformed into grazing land.” “Organise yourselves and propose areas that have lost the status of being protected reserves and farming estates, which have not been developed…this will pave way for reallocation of the areas to livestock keepers,” he remarked. The minister raised concern over the 27 land commissions, which the government and National Assembly had formed since 2000 to address 1,095 land disputes countrywide but 99 per cent of the commissions’ recommendations remains unimplemented to date. He pointed an accusing finger at some public leaders and civil servants with personal interests who used their positions to meddle in the findings of the land commissions. “Some of the leaders and government executives went to the extent of bribing to upend the commissions’ findings because they were benefiting from the land conflicts, particularly those pitting farmers against livestock keepers,” he pointed out. The minister assured Simiyu residents and all Tanzanians that the eight ministerial committee that President Magufuli formed will put to an end the previous recurrence of land disputes in many parts of the country. “You should be rest assured that all recommendations made by the people will be presented to President Magufuli, unlike the past commissions, which were not transparent in their proposals to the government,” he declared. Mr Mpina urged livestock keepers, farmers and fishermen to identify and propose areas of land, which wish to have reallocated to them. Speaking at the meeting, one of the residents surrounding Maswa Game Reserve, Mr Deus Martin, informed the ministers that 75 cattle are being held by the authorities at Buturi area for about one year and four months. “The existing demarcation between the reserve and the village was erected in 1984 but the villagers were not involved in the process. Some of the homesteads were 10 kilometres from the new demarcation and hence their forced reallocation led to shortage of grazing land,” Mr Martin claimed. The resident proposed that the livestock keepers in the area be allowed to use the land from which they were previously evicted to graze their animals. Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development Minister, William Lukuvi told the villagers who were reallocated to pave the way for 500 metres from the reserve to return to their former areas. Mr Lukuvi, who chairs the ministerial committee, assured the villagers that all their recommendations will be forwarded to President Magufuli. Apart from Mr Mpina and Mr Lukuvi, the sectorial ministerial committee has Minister of State in President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Suleiman Jaffo and Water Minister, Professor Makame Mbarawa as its members.