TANZANIA Prisons has signed an agreement with two Italian companies for the establishment of a leather product manufacturing factories at Karanga Prison in Kilimanjaro Region. The project which will be implemented by suppliers and contractors from TMC and ItalProgetti companies and Prison Corporation Sole is expected to generate a profit of 29.9 million euros, equivalents to 78.8bn/-per year upon completion. The Project Manager, Mr Masoud Omari said yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the signing ceremony that the project was part of the implementation of government plans to attain an industrial economy. The project is expected to be completed within 16 months after the signing of the tender contract of plants and construction of industrial buildings. He further said that the Karanga Leather Industries Co Ltd (KLICL) was initiated on 30 May 2017 for the purpose of implementing the project of manufacturing leather products in Moshi, Kilimanjaro. Mr Omari explained that the implementation of the project was divided into two phases, including the development of an old shoe- factory under its Prison Corporation Sole and enhancing new machinery to maximize production from 150 to 400 pair of shoes per day. “This improvement of an existing factory focused on improving factory buildings, electrical systems, mechanical renovation and new plant purchases for the purpose of increasing production, this goal has been completed in September 2018 after these improvements,” he explained. He added that the second phase will involve construction of new factories at on 25 hectares of land allocated at Karanga Prison area in Moshi Town, including a shoe factory with the capacity of producing 4,000 pairs of shoes per day (1,200,000) pairs per year. The others are sole manufacturing of about 800,000 to 1, 200, 0000 pairs per year, Leather articles include bags, belts, women hand bags, sofa and car seat covers, pistol case, gloves and a leather processing factory capable of processing 13 million square feet per year which will be used in manufacturing, with 40 percent for the domestic market and the rest for the overseas market. He stressed that through the project, the country will benefit by having a reliable market of raw skin from pastoralists and increase the value of the skin produced in the country, increase production of raw scrubs and leather products such as crust leather, finished leather, shoes and soles. “Employment opportunities will increase, where there will be direct employment of 3000 employees and more than 4,000 jobs, which will expand the tax base of the city’s municipalities and Kilimanjaro region as well as improve the living standard and increased income of the population. On his side, the Commissioner General of Prison (CGP), Phaustine Kasike (pictured) promised to carry out construction work to complete the project and support industrial policy in the country. “It is a great opportunity for the prisons through this project, which can help them to attain skills in producing leather products, “he said.