TANZANIA has received a clean bill of health on debt suitability showing low ratios to GDP on all fronts.  The debt ratio assessment conducted last December by several internationally recognised institutions, showed that the total debt ratio to GDP currently stands at 27.2 per cent against the recommended global ratio of 70 per cent. The Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Research Department Manager, Dr Nicas Yabu, said the low ratios indicated great government solvency to warrant borrowing at lower cost, and thus improves access to new financing. “The ratio increases government credibility inside and outside the country. If we were rated today by those global firms, we could have received a better and high rate,” Dr Yabu told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview yesterday. He said apart from the country’s credibility, the good ratios also attract foreign direct investments and gave commercial banks good credits when borrowing abroad. The BoT economist said last year Tanzania registered strong economic performance to elevate the country from “medium to strong performers” , thus shifting its debt sustainability calculation indicators from previous years. “The World Bank (WB) analysis showed that the debt is sustainable at short, medium and long terms at present value terms,” Dr Yabu said. Other relations showed that the external debt ratio to GDP at last December stands at 22.2per cent compared to the global threshold of 55 per cent and export to external debt at 157.3 per cent against a ceiling of 240 per cent. Also, debt service to export ratio analysis stands at 15.2 per cent compared to global standard of 23per cent and debt service to revenue collection ratio stands at 49.6 per cent as at last December. Dr Yabu said debt assessment country to country differs depending with the level of the economy. However, the Bretton Wood institutions, WB and International Monetary Fund (IMF) take into account the composite index of real GDP growth, foreign reserve import cover and global economic growth and Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA). Speaking on debt accelerating at fast pace, Dr Yabu said, the economy has extended at great speed in recent years, thus warranting debt expansion to take the growth. “The government will continue to closely monitor borrowing and limiting debt expansion…while proceeds from the debt will be directed to development projects and borrow at low interest rates,” he said. Year-on-year, the total debt increased from 26.26billion US dollars (roughly 60tri/-at current exchange rate) in November 2017 to 28.21billion US dollars (65tri/-) in November 2018. The central bank also said the government will continue to increase revenue collection amid widening tax sources and stop guarantee public institutions that are running at a loss. The institutions that assessed the country debt stance were WB, IMF, SADC, BoT and various government institutions and departments.