BUKOBA High Court Judge, Lameck Mlacha has declared that there will be no tolerance on ‘bush lawyers’, warning that stern measures will be taken against suspects, including prosecuting them in court. This follows an increase of civil cases where wananchi were conned of their money by unruly people posing as ‘bush lawyers’, who cheat them by drafting substandard court proceedings. “We are closely following up the complaints, because ‘bush lawyers’ seem to be on the increase. The government will no longer tolerate such criminals who tarnish the good name of the judiciary,” he warned. Justice Mlacha was speaking during the Law Day celebrations held in Bukoba Municipality on Wednesday, where he appealed to wananchi to utilize services offered by licenced lawyers under the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS). He urged private lawyers to advise their clients well, especially when a complainant has no legal right, citing land-related and inheritance cases which were on the increase. “Do not hesitate to advise your clients wisely, even if he/she pays you money for counselling. This will minimize piled up cases in court,” he said. Judge Mlacha also challenged state attorneys and TLS lawyers to avoid compromising justice and instead increase home work and do more research before appearing in court. He noted that the Bukoba High Court had only two judges while the required number was five. He said that due to the shortage, about 1,388 cases were pending before the High Court registry. Kagera Regional Commissioner (RC), Marco Gaguti, who was the chief guest, appealed to wananchi to avoid taking the law into their own hands, saying this trend results into miscarriage of justice. He instead advised them to report suspects to nearest police stations and relevant authorities for necessary action. “Records indicate that about 168 murder-related incidents were reported to the police during 2017, compared to 138 murder incidents reported last year. Inspite of the decrease, incidents of people taking the law in their own hands is still high,” he said. He commended President John Magufuli for the recent appointment of six Court of Appeal judges and 15 High Court judges, noting that the new judges will speed up court proceedings, including timely judgments. He appealed to wananchi to cooperate with judicial officials by appearing in court on time as witnesses when they are summoned to do so.