Dear Readers, IT is imperative to mention at the outset that children’s mental health problems are real, common and treatable. Although one in five children has a diagnosable mental health problem, nearly two-thirds of them get little or no help, much to their peril. I must point out here that some of the so-called naughty children (watoto watundu) in some families are actually victims of mental disorders. Indeed, some families fail to determine that their child has a mental disorder and requires urgent medical attention. Whenever possible, the child should be involved in medical treatment decisions. I must impress here that ailing children should not be taken to traditional healers, herbalists, witchdoctors, palmists, oracles or fortunetellers. These are opportunists and liars. If your child is diagnosed with a mental health problem, a comprehensive treatment plan should include psychotherapy and, in some cases, may include medication. The plan should be developed with the family. In Tanzania, these anomalies are rarely detected at the family level. However, as mentioned before, they are prevalent. It is sometimes assumed that childhood and adolescence are times of carefree bliss. This is not entirely correct. In fact, 20 percent of children and adolescents have one or more diagnosable mental disorders. Most of these disorders may be viewed as exaggerations or distortions of normal behaviors and emotions. Like adults, children and adolescents vary in temperament. Some are shy and reticent; others are socially exuberant. Some are methodical and cautious; others are impulsive and careless. Many become virtually inconsolable when they throw explosive tantrums. There is much overlap between the symptoms of many disorders and the challenging behaviors and emotions of normal children. Thus, many strategies useful for managing behavioral problems in children can also be used in children who have mental disorders. Untreated mental health problems can disrupt children’s functioning at home, school and in the community. Without treatment, children with mental health issues are at increased risk of school failure, contact with the criminal underworld and even suicide. Parents and family members are usually the first to notice if a child has problems with emotions or behavior. Your observations, along with those of teachers and other caregivers, can help determine whether you need to seek help for your child. Intellectual disability, (mental retardation), is characterized by below-average intelligence or mental ability and a lack of skills necessary for day-to-day living. People with intellectual disabilities can and do learn new skills, but they learn them more slowly. There are varying degrees of intellectual disability, from mild to profound. Someone with intellectual disability has limitations in two areas. The first one is Intellectual functioning. Also known as IQ, this refers to a person’s ability to learn, reason and solve problems. The other limitation involves Adaptive Behaviors. These are skills necessary for day-to-day life, such as being able to communicate effectively, interact with others, and take care of oneself. IQ (intelligence quotient) is measured by an IQ test. The average IQ is 100, with the majority of people scoring between 85 and 115. A person is considered intellectually disabled if he or she has an IQ of less than 75. To measure a child’s adaptive behaviors, a specialist will observe the child’s skills and compare them to those of other children of the same age. Things that may be observed include how well the child can feed or dress himself or herself; how well the child is able to communicate with and understand others and how the child interacts with family, friends, and other children of the same age. Intellectual disability is thought to affect about one percent of the population. Of those affected, 85 percent have mild intellectual disability. This means they are just a little slower than average to learn new information or skills. With correct support, most children in this group will be able to live independently as adults. There are many different signs of intellectual disability in children. Signs may appear during infancy, or they may not be noticeable until a child reaches school age. It often depends on the severity of the disability. Some of the most common signs of intellectual disability are: rolling over, sitting up, crawling, or walking late in infants; talking late or having trouble with talking and slow to master things like dressing. The child might also have problems in feeding himself or herself; difficulty remembering things; inability to connect actions with consequences and behavior problems such as explosive tantrums and difficulty with problem-solving or logical thinking. In children with severe or profound intellectual disability, there may be other health problems as well. These problems may include seizures, mood disorders (which include anxiety and autism), motor skills impairment, vision problems, or hearing problems. Whenever something interferes with normal brain development, intellectual disability can result. However, a specific cause for intellectual disability can only be pinpointed about a third of the time. Common causes of intellectual disability include genetic conditions. These involve things like Down syndrome. Problems during pregnancy can also be a cause. Things that can interfere with fetal brain development include alcohol or drug use, malnutrition or certain infections. Intellectual disability may also result if a baby is deprived of oxygen during childbirth or born extremely premature. Infections like meningitis, whooping cough, or the measles can lead to intellectual disability. Severe head injury, near-drowning, extreme malnutrition, infections in the brain, exposure to toxic substances such as lead, and severe neglect or abuse can also cause intellectual disability. In two-thirds of children who have intellectual disability, the cause is unknown. Certain causes of intellectual disability are preventable. The most common of these is fetal alcohol syndrome. Pregnant women shouldn’t drink alcohol. In families with a history of genetic disorders, genetic testing may be recommended before conception. Getting proper prenatal care, taking a prenatal vitamin, and getting vaccinated against certain infectious diseases can also lower the risk that your child will be born with intellectual disabilities. Certain tests, such as ultrasound and amniocentesis, can also be performed during pregnancy to look for problems associated with intellectual disability. Although these tests may identify problems before birth, they cannot correct them. Intellectual disability may be suspected for many different reasons. If a baby has physical abnormalities that suggest a genetic or metabolic disorder, a variety of tests may be done to confirm the diagnosis. In children with developmental delays, the doctor will perform tests to rule out other problems, including hearing problems and certain neurological disorders. If no other cause can be found for the delays, the child will be referred for formal testing. Three things factor into the diagnosis of intellectual disability: interviews with the parents, observation of the child and testing of intelligence and adaptive behaviors. A child is considered intellectually disabled if he has deficits in both IQ and adaptive behaviors. If only one or the other is present, the child is not considered intellectually disabled. After a diagnosis of intellectual disability is made, a team of professionals will assess the child’s particular strengths and weaknesses.