STAKEHOLDERS in the tourism sector yesterday met in Dar es Salaam to discuss and devise strategies for the implementation of reviewed tourism policy. Speaking to journalists, Executive Secretary of Tourism Confederation of Tanzania (TCT), Mr Richard Lugimbana said the meeting involved members from thirteen associations dealing with tourism to discuss the implementation of the policy expected to boost tourism sector. He said that another meeting is scheduled for Tuesday next week in the Northern Zone to make sure that all tourism stakeholders share their views on the new policy. "This new policy will help to promote the tourism sector and boost revenue," he said. He further advised the general public to preserve tourism attractions which are essential in strengthening the tourism industry. At the same occasion, the Consultant of TCT, Prof Samuel Wangwe said that most of the tourist attractions in the country were not fully utilised due to lack of promotion but through the new policy such a challenge will be addressed. “Tourism sector contributes about 25 per cent of foreign currency in the country, therefore if the environment is improved through this new policy, it will help to increase employment opportunities and boost the national economy," he said. The envisaged policy is being formulated based on stakeholder proposals submitted by the Tourism Confederation of Tanzania (TCT) during the Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) meeting in 2015. The draft policy contains 11 issues, one of which is about human resource challenges, including the shortage of appropriately skilled personnel and the promotion of Tanzania as a preferred tourist destination. Others are product development (which has led to over-dependence on the northern tourism circuit); business environment challenges (mostly due to unfriendly tax policies) and infrastructure challenges (especially in some tourism- potential areas in the western and southern tourism circuits. The envisaged policy also incorporates the issues of community participation; outdated and conflicting laws and regulations governing tourism operations; involvement of Local Government Authorities (LGAs), and lack of truly effective involvement of the citizenry at large.