TODAY, February 13, is ‘ World Radio Day,’ so proclaim ed on Novem ber 3, 2011 by UNESC O’s 36th General C onference as initially proposed by Spain. The underlying objectives of a World Radio Day are “ to raise greater awareness am ong the public and the m edia of the im portance of radio; to encourage decision-m ak ers to establish and provide access to inform ation through radio, and to enhance networking and international cooperation am ong broadcasters.” A UNESCO feasibility study beginning in June 2011 involved an array of stakeholders, about 91 per cent of whom were favoured instituting a World Radio Day. Study participants included broadcasting associations; international broadcasters ( public, state, private and com m unity); UN Agencies; Funds, Foundations and Program m es; topic-related NGOs; academ ia; bilateral developm ent agencies, as well as UNESC O Perm anent Delegations and National C om - m issions. Project leaders, Academ ia Españ ola de la Radio of Spain received over 46 letters of support from diverse stak eholders. Among them – listed here strictly in alphabetical order – were the Arab States Broadcasting Union; the Asia- Pacific Broadcasting Union; the African Union of Broadcasting; Bangladesh NGOs Network for Radio and C om - m unication; BBC ; the C aribbean Broadcasting Union; the European Broadcasting Union; the International Association of Broadcasting; the North Am erican Broadcasters Association; Organizació n de Telecom unicaciones Ibeoram ericanas; URTI, V atican Radio. It’s indeed a long story.. . Suffice it here to say that, at the end of the day (in a m anner of speak ing) it was agreed that February 13 – the day when the United Nations Radio was established in 1946 – should also be ‘World Radio Day!’ So, there you are.. . But, the 64 ,000-US dollar q uestion then arises: why, pray, did it tak e so long – nearly a century – to proclaim ‘ World Radio Day’? After all, radio broadcasting dates back to, to, to.. . Gosh! . . . The ‘history’ of radio is com plex . Its developm ent began as ‘wireless telegraphy:’ the transm ission of telegraph signals by radio waves – radio waves being ‘a type of electrom agnetic radiation with wavelengths in the electrom agnetic spectrum longer than infrared light.’ But, let’s just focus upon one aspect of radio: ‘radio broadcasting,’ which m eans using radio waves to send signals to large groups of listeners. Early use of radio focused on using the technology as an alternative to the telegraph. But, by the 1920s, broadcast radio had tak en off as a m ajor telecom m unications m edium . Briefly put, a ‘radio’ is an apparatus for wireless transm ission and reception of electric im pulses or signals from a radio transm itting/broadcasting station to ‘a radio receiving set’ by m eans of electrom agnetic waves. Radio broadcasting, of course, refers to using radio waves to send signals to large groups of listeners. Early use of radio focused on using the technology as an alternative to the telegraph. But, broadcast radio had tak en off by the 1920s as a m ajor telecom m unications m edium . In due course of tim e and events – and what with one thing leading to another – the traditional AM (am plitude m odulation) and FM ( freq uency m odulation) radios are being turned on their m etaphorical ear by what are today satellite radio, digital radio broadcasts, radio-style ‘ stations’ – including broadband, m obiles and tablets – that are readily available on the ubiq uitous Internet and elsewhere in a rapidly digitaliz ing world. As a m ass m edia system reaching the widest audience in the world, radio is also recognised as a powerful com m unication tool and a low-cost m edium of com m unication. Indeed, it is specifically suited to reach rem ote com m unities and vulnerable people: the illiterate, the disabled, women, youths and the poor, while offering a platform to intervene in public debate, irrespective of people’s educational level. Furtherm ore, radio has a strong and specific role in em ergency com m unication and disaster relief. However, up to a billion people (out of the world’s 7 . 7 bn total population) are said not to have direct/ready access to radio today. Sheesh! All the foregoing notwithstanding, however, it took the stak eholders three generations or so to wak e up to the advisability and need for a World Radio Day on which to ‘blah, blah, blah’ about the usefulness of radio broadcasting! On.. . there is so m uch that is captivating in the public dom ain about radio in general, and radio broadcasting in particular, that one can never do justice to the topic in this colum n. So, esteem ed readers are earnestly enjoined to hit the k eyboard to the ubiquitous Internet – and, Hurray.. . . Oh.. . While at it, readers m ay also want to intellectually gorge them selves on other February 13 historic events down the ages.. . Such as the birth of Thom as Malthus on February 13, 176 6 , whose ‘Malthusian Theory’ on population and food is yet to be dem olished: that population grows faster, m ultiplying geom etrically, while food supplies grow m ore slowly, m ultiplying arithm etically. By implication, population growth must be kept in check by natural disaster, wars, fam ine, celibacy, birth control, etc.. . Sheesh! israellyimo@ gmail.com