INVESTORS from across the globe have been encouraged to take advantage of the vast trade and investment opportunities in the country as it is implementing its ambitious industrialisation agenda. The Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) Vice-President Octavian Mshiu says, “We need potential investors from across the world to invest in the country towards its industrialisation goal by 2025.” He said at the opening of the 14th Tanzania Trade Show held in in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that the country has vibrant market with massive investment and business opportunities, which business communities are invited to explore. Organised by the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) and Grow Exhibitions from Dubai, the event gathered exhibitors from various countries, including India, United Arab Emirates (UAE), South Africa, China, Poland, Saudi Arabia to showcase their products ranging from agroproducts, health, construction, household appliances, hotel supplies, machinery and electronics among others. Mr Mshiu said the attainment of industrialisation drive in Tanzania depends also largely on foreign investors because local investors cannot make themselves in order to beat targeted time frame. He added that the exhibition was an opportunity for the business community from India and Tanzania to strengthen bilateral relations through trade and investments, for the betterment of both countries and their people. The Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) chairman, Mr Subhash Patel assured the investors that Tanzania was a peaceful country in Africa, calling on foreign investors to feel secure in establishing invest-ment projects. Mr Patel also urged Tanzanians to utilise the exhibitions by ensuring that they fully participate and exchange experiences and technologies. High Commissioner of India to Tanzania, Mr Sandeep Arya said that the two countries will continue with the long-existing mutual trading cooperation and called on local Tanzania firms to partner with Asian firms, if the country is to make maximum gains especially in agriculture. He noted that the trade fair will further enable exchange of experience and technology, the step that will enable each other to learn approaches for business expansion and create more trade opportunities.