THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) yesterday announced that they are in the final stages to recruit another coach, to assist national Under-17 football team, Serengeti Boys’ Head Coach Oscar Milambo. Serengeti Boys is in camp preparing for the 2019 Under-17 Africa Cup of the Nations (AFCON) to be hosted in Dar es Salaam this April. Prior to that, Serengeti Boys will compete in a special tournament called UEFA Assist slated on March 1st to 9th in Turkey. Breaking the ice was TFF Technical Director Ammy Ninje, who said any moment from yesterday; they will announce the name of the coach, who will work on temporary contract. “We have seen it necessary to hire an experienced coach to work together with the incumbent coach Oscar Milambo as one way to ensure that the team do well in approaching AFCON mission and win World Cup ticket,” Ninje said. He continued: “We do not want to be accused that Milambo was not given the necessary support before the competition bearing in mind that they will face tough teams with experienced coaches.” Ninje added that the coming in of the backup coach does not mean that Milambo has failed to execute well his responsibilities but rather, the two should work hand in hand to strengthen the squad ahead of the continental showpiece. “I know how coaching industry behaves that is why we want to bring somebody, who can provide the inputs we all need for Serengeti Boys,” he said. He then revealed that the oncoming coach is a Tanzanian, who is parading in the Mainland Premier League as such, it would be easy for his club to release him. “It is good that we want to give this opportunity to a Tanzanian for him to fully understand what the country expects from the tournament. In view of this, it would be easy for his current club management to release him and join Serengeti Boys team,” Ninje, the former national senior football team coach said. However, he made it clear that after the competition, the yet to be announced coach will be allowed to leave the team and continue his usual duties in the league. This will be the second time for Serengeti Boys to compete in the youth football tournament having traded for the first time in 2017 in Gabon under the guidance of Kim Poulsen and Bakari Shime. Earlier, sports stakeholders in the country proposed that Shime, who is the Head Coach of JKT Tanzania should be recalled to Serengeti Boys technical bench to hype the team’s morale towards the forthcoming contest.