DAR ES SALAAM Institute of Technology (DIT) envisages getting into full business of converting vehicles from using fuel to natural gas, effective next month. The conversion is expecting to relieve motorists from digging deeper into their pockets, with the institute observed that the use of natural gas can cut costs by between 40 and 50 per cent compared to fuel. The conversion service comes after the DIT managed to transform 55 cars in two months between November and December last year through Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) pilot project, which was initiated by Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC). The TPDC initiated the scheme through trainings under the CNG project to some higher learning institutions. During the project implementation, the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and DIT emerged winners and got chance to participate in the project, DIT’s CNG Coordinator, Dr Esebi Nyari told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. He explained that low fuel consumption was a factor behind high influx of vehicle owners to the institute, seeking the service despite the fact that the pilot project had ended. Taxi service providers, especially those operating Uber and Taxify transport companies were among motorists in high demand for the conversion services. “After the remarkable successes, we are now prepared to go into full operation… the preparations include setting up the gas filling station in our premises. It’s because during the pilot project, we observed that the only Ubungo station was overwhelmed,” he said. Meanwhile, the DIT in collaboration with its subsidiary Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology Company Limited (DITCL) plan to offer natural gas mobile stations, whereby trucks with gas cylinders will be roving around the city. To make the vehicle conversion service available countrywide, the institute will set up branches across the country. This will ease congestion at the DIT headquarters in Dar es Salaam and bring the service closer to the people. Commenting on conversion service costs, Dr Nyari said the minimum is 1.8m/-, which is for the four-cylinder vehicles and the cost varies depending on the vehicle type. So far, he said, about 350 Uber and 50 taxify operators have shown interest to convert their vehicles once the vehicle is available at the DIT. The Institute was also on final talks with Dar es Salaam Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) to convert all its busses’ fuel system to natural gas. To make CNG most successful and sustainable, Dr Nyari urged the government to sponsor trainings for DIT staff, saying there was acute shortage of experts, especially in certification field. It was feared that shortage of experts may lead to project inefficiency. One of the taxi operators who converted his cars, Mr Dominick Ndanshau confirmed that he has cut costs by about 50 per cent. Before the conversion, Mr Ndanshau says he used to spend 70,000/- per day but now he spends only 14,000/-. He urged the government to encourage the public to use natural resource, which is not only locally available but also cheaper.