IT is a D Day as Dar derby takes centre stage in the Mainland Premier League today, when traditional rivals Simba and Young Africans square off at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba and Yanga clash is the country’s most famous rivalry and matches between both teams are usually tight, closely fought contests and today’s clash would be no different. Yanga will be the hosts in the second traditional derby match of the season with each side eager to win the match and continue to climb up the league ladders. And, this time around both sides appear to be under intense pressure from their supporters, especially after sharing the spoil following a barren draw in the first round. Simba will be seeking nothing but victory, to strengthen their title defence campaign, while Yanga are looking to extend their league lead as well as keeping alive their chances of dethroning their rivals. Yanga occupy the top spot on the log with 58 points from 23 games, massive 22 points ahead of Simba, who have eight games in hand. The Msimbazi Reds are placed fourth on the table but if they win all their matches in hand, they will certainly go top of the table. A win for Yanga will see them reaching 61 points, meaning that they will open 11 point gap at the summit of the league standings from 24 matches. Azam are second on 49 points from 23 games. If Simba win today they will close gap on Yanga by 19 points. The Msimbazi Reds have so far played 15 matches and a win in all their remaining eight games in hand compared to Yanga, will see them accumulating 60 points. However, both teams are in positive frame of mind after winning their previous league assignments respectively. Yanga are coming off a 1-0 victory at home against JKT Tanzania in the previous league match at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga last Sunday. Feisal Salum’s effort in the 26th minute was the difference as Mwinyi Zahera’s men rediscovered their winning ways after a sharp slum in their previous three matches in which, they picked only two points from maximum 12. Simba will also come into the match buoyed with their befitting 1-0 win over Egyptians Al Ahly at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, which revamped their hopes to step into the last eight of the CAF Champions League. As the giants will be involved in a battle of wits seeking to remain in picture for title race, Yanga’s Zahera has urged fans to storm the venue today to watch the transformed team they have never seen before. Speaking to reporters yesterday, Zahera said the match is going to be difficult but their objective as usual is to collect three points. “We have finished preparations and all players in my squad are fit hence it is my duty to choose who should play,” Zahera said. Yanga will be looking to Congolese striker, Heritier Makambo and Burundian hit man Amissi Tambwe to provide the spark in attack, while play maker, Ibrahim Ajib will operate just behind them. Defender Abdallah Shaibu will certainly sit as holding midfielder to protect central defenders-- Kelvin Yondani and Andrew Vincent. Yanga worries will be in goalkeeping, where either Ramadhani Kabwili or Congolese Klaus Kindoki will stand between the sticks. Probably, lack of derby clash experience to both goalkeepers will cause lots of goose bumps for Yanga fans. Simba officials and the technical bench have chosen to put their cards on the chest, although, their fans have been the most vocal in the past few days, especially after the victory over Al Ahly. Prior to last Tuesday victory, Patrick Aussems’ team had suffered massive 5-0 defeats against AS Vita of DR Congo and lost by the same margin against Al Ahly in the CAF Champions League outings, results which left Simba fans somewhat worried. Simba have also been hampered by injuries in recent weeks with Erasto Nyoni, Shomari Kapombe, Asante Kwasi and Salim Mbonde sidelined. However, Nyoni could start today following his return to full fitness. Nyoni’s presence will stabilise Simba defence which looked porous recently. Skipper John Bocco is expected to continue in attack despite struggling to find the net this season. He will partner with deadly duo Meddie Kagere and Emmanuel Okwi. The derby match will be officiated by referee Hans Mabena from Tanga, who will be assisted by Mohammed Mkono and Kassim Mpanga, whereby Elly Sasii will be the fourth official.