ABOUT 7,000 small business people in Mbagala area, Dar es Salaam region are set to benefit from a 34m/- project sponsored by the Netherlands government. The ‘Prevent and Respond to Gender Based Violence for Informal Sector Women Market Traders Project’ is a six- month project which started from November last year, targeting traders operating in and along Mbagala Rangi Tatu and Kampochea markets. The project is a continuation of ‘Mpe Riziki Si Matusi’ campaigns which have been implemented by the Dar es Salaam-based Equality for Growth (EfG), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) operating in several areas of the country. Before full operations of the project, EfG conducted a research in January, whose results showed presence of Gender Based Violence at 78 percent in the targeted areas. During the project launching ceremony mid this week, EfG Executive Director, Ms Jane Magigita said that the research also indicated that there was no legal aid for GBV victims within the markets. "Also, it indicates that 85 percent of the women have not been reporting the violence acts. Women are the most vulnerable group as we found them operating their businesses in difficult environments and excluded in decision making and leadership issues. They also faced low level of business management education, hence they experienced economic setbacks," she said. It was further noted that researchers found economic violence existing at 40 percent, psychological violence at 27 percent, sexual harassment at over 15 percent and physical violence at 12 percent. The project therefore will involve regular public awareness campaigns to let the public know about negative impacts of GBV and join the war against the vice. There will also be the formation of ‘Women Forums’ in markets as well as free legal aid provision to all traders. Of the targeted 7,000 traders, women are only 340, according to her. Switzerland Deputy Ambassador in Tanzania, Ms Lianne Houben said that women make up disproportionate percentage in informal markets, ranging from street vendors and domestic workers, to substance farmers and seasonal agriculture workers. She said that working in the informal sector, or grey economy often leave women with very limited protection, and they are normally more vulnerable to abuse and exploitation due to their status and education. "Moreover, in most cases they do not even know where to report such abuses, hence the need for this project. The Netherlands has been supporting and continues to support efforts to combat GBV and promote gender equality. Gender equality forms part of our Dutch foreign policy because we know that it provides a good basis of stability and economic prosperity," she said.