THE ambition and passion from both sets of Simba and Young Africans fans was clear from early hours of yesterday as they drove in numbers to flock the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Even the current scorching weather condition in Dar es Salaam did not deter those attending this clash. A stranger who passed at the National Stadium yesterday afternoon could easily understand that the masses of people invading the venue were about to witness the big football match of the season. Traditionally, when Yanga and Simba face each other in any competition, business activities countrywide are halted momentarily as people stay glued to their Television sets, radios and mobile phones to find out which team will stand up after the 90 minutes of the hot game. The sky was blue and partly cloudy even though not enough to prevent the sweating heat of Dar es Salaam as people of all ages, race and religion happily arrived at the 60,000 capacity stadium only to be identified which team they belong to from the colours of their clothes. Ticket sellers located themselves at various points around the stadium attending to football fans who failed to purchase tickets in advance prior to the fierce clash. They were being sold in the range of 30,000/-, 20,000/- and 7,000/-. Yes, this was the game one could hardly afford to miss. Just opposite the Uhuru Stadium, which is situated close to the main stadium, vendors who were selling food and non-food commodities had a task to satisfy the approaching fans before going inside the stadium. Nearby trees were beautifully decorated with jerseys of both clubs hanging as people scrambled for them basing on their preferences. Big names of players were branded at the back of the jerseys like Okwi, Kagere, Chama, Tshishimbi, Ajib, Kotei, Yondani, Feisal and many other common names. Dancing groups from each side could not help as they continued dishing out songs to satisfy the incoming supporters who were arriving using any means of available transport, while those who afforded to walk simply did that. Hosting team Yanga were the first to arrive at the stadium under police escort with their fans outside the venue. Surprisingly, Yanga used a mini bus, while the usual club bus arrived at the venue earlier on without a single Yanga player. Inside the stadium, the atmosphere was extraordinary as attention grabbing scenes from the supporters were in progress from each side of the stadium stands. The stadium was divided into two parts, to the right hand side; one could see only green and yellow colours representing Yanga, while the left-hand side was covered in red and white colours for Simba. The venue exploded into cheers when Yanga goalkeepers-- Ramadhani Kabwili and Klaus Kindoki emerged from the tunnel for pre-match warm-ups. Then, thunderous cheers greeted Simba squad, which arrived with a brand new bus and from then, the menu was on the table ready to be served.