ENVIRONMENTAL and construction stakeholders started a two-day meeting in Dar es Salaam yesterday to discuss ways of tackling environmental challenges caused by large scale construction works. The two-day brainstorming session is expected to come out with suggestions of developing resilience infrastructures needed also for the industrialisation drive. Director of the B&F Consulting, Mr Bruno Kinyaga said they and Swiss based firm–Quantusec, saw the importance of bringing together stakeholders to discuss environmental impact and measures for creation of resilient infrastructures. “The government carries a number of large projects like roads, railways, airports, hydropower dam and the likes. These have unique importance to the economy, however, with environmental related challenges need joint efforts in approaching them,” Kinyaga told reporters. He said the challenges have pushed the two firms to organise the two-day event that brought together public and private organs to discuss and present the ideas to the government to support resilient development projects. During the session an official from the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government Engineer Rashid Mtamila said that his office works on mitigating environmental challenges toward development. “This brainstorming session will contribute to the efforts already put in place by the government in controlling disasters in rural and urban areas for sustainable development,” Eng Mtamila, who coordinates Urban and Local Government Support Project (LGSP), said. “It’s my hope that we shall come with joint solutions from this gathering on tackling environmental challenges resulted from infrastructure development,” he said. A town planner from Dar es Salaam city council said that her office had planned tree planting to protect river banks by channelling rain waters into friendly drainage system to halt their damage to infrastructures. “We are here to share our plans with environmental stakeholders so that we can get inputs which will be shared with other authorities on how to promote development through resilient infrastructures,” she said. Environmental related factors hit development infrastructures annually through flooding, strong winds where some of the multibillion projects are washed away, roads remain impassable, bridges break and railways are affected in a ways leading to loss of more money in repairing them.