TANZANIAN Embassy in Germany has faulted unsubstantiated accusations by a Member of Parliament Tundu Lissu during an interview on DW News Africa last week. Tanzanian Ambassador to Germany Abdalah Possi (pictured) said it was very inopportune to learn that the unpatriotic opposition legislator who is still on treatment, was touring abroad to propagate serious allegations against the most stable East African nation. “Tanzanians and indeed his constituents would have expected him, if now recovered and able to travel, to go back home and continue his representative and other public duties,” Dr Possi said. In a media statement, the diplomat responded to the allegations, saying Lissu’s attack that occurred in September 2017 was unfortunate and that such events are rare in Tanzania but may happen in any country. He said even President Dr John Magufuli condemned the senseless acts and ordered thorough investigation immediately and at different times the president sent the Vice-President, a former President and other senior government leaders to visit Mr Lissu in hospital, some in Dodoma, Nairobi and Brussels. “It is ill-advised that the MP would now turn these well-meaning gestures of the President into yet unwarranted attacks,” he remarked. He said the wish of the law enforcement agencies is to have an audience with Mr Lissu in order for him to recollect some of the important events concerning the matter. Investigation started immediately after the incident and his primary account is crucial for effective investigation that may lead to successful prosecution. “Until now, law enforcers have not secured the co-operation of the Member of Parliament and his driver to give important insights into the unfortunate circumstances of the day. Investigators in Tanzania are still keen and waiting for Mr Lissu and his driver, the two key eyewitnesses, to give their account of the events preceding the attack,” he hinted. On the Leader of the Opposition being in Prison, Dr Possi remarked that Mr Freeman Mbowe, has not been convicted to serve a prison sentence.He noted that granting or revocation of bail is a judicial process regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act and Dar es Salaam court revoked the bail after he had breached bail conditions by being absent in court without justified cause. During the interview, Mr Lissu also accused President Magufuli of encouraging political violence by stating that he did declare that he wanted to see no opposition party by the year 2020. The truth remains that the MP’s accusations are baseless because in any multi-party democracy, the survival or collapse of political parties depends on how they ably sell their ideologies to the public. Based on this fact, Mr Lissu and members of his party have occasionally stated that they will eliminate the ruling CCM from the political scene. “It is therefore highly exaggerated for Mr Lissu to conclude that the government is committing murders against opposition politicians based on the president’s statement. Furthermore, the argument by Lissu does not explain acts of murder and violence which have been committed against members of the ruling party CCM, civil servants and police officers,” he said. On facing several criminal cases, the ambassador clarified that Members of Parliament, just like any other citizens are not immune from criminal prosecutions in case of commission of offences. He explained that Mr Lissu was facing several criminal cases and the independence of the judiciary requires that determination of any case pending in court should not be influenced by persons or entities outside the judiciary. “It is unfortunate that Mr Lissu intentionally hides the fact that Tanzania has a record of respecting judicial decisions, even those given in favour of opposition politicians. The enforcement of criminal laws is not based on political affiliation as claimed by the MP,” he noted. Dr Possi said on different occasions, some MPs, including those from the ruling party were either arrested or charged in court over allegations of having committed different and unrelated offences. For example, in December 2017, Mr Sadifa Juma Khamis, an MP from the ruling party was arrested and later charged by the anti-corruption bureau in Tanzania, the PCCB. “There are also several examples of CCM politicians who were arrested or charged for various offences. It is therefore wrong and bias for Lissu to argue that opposition MPs are targeted,” he noted. On banning of political activities, Dr Possi clarified that political parties in Tanzania are free to organise their statutory processes—like elections and constituent activities.