NEW diagnostic tools to help in the fight against HIV/Aids designed for viral load and early infant diagnosis in the country were launched yesterday. Dubbed Aptima HIV-1 Quant Dx Assay was announced by Hologic Inc. It can be used for early infant diagnosis (EID) and for testing dried blood spots (DBS), which means it can diagnose infected infants under 18 months old and test an additional sample type to monitor disease progression. “We designed a test and panther system keeping in mind the specific needs of viral diagnosis laboratories in Africa,” said Joao Malagueira, Hologic Inc Vice-President, Europe South and Indirect Markets. He added: “Through this integrated testing solution, we want to partner with local authorities and international organisations to help the fight against HIV/Aids in east and southern Africa with 25 million people infected with HIV/ Aids in sub-Saharan Africa alone. There continues to be an urgent need for accessible and reliable testing, which is crucial for managing care and reducing the spread of the infectious disease.” In Tanzania, there are estimated to be over 120,000 children under the age of 14 living with HIV/Aids and about 11,000 children newly infected with HIV/Aids in 2017. Mr Malagueira said early infant diagnosis was essential to improve prevention and treatment interventions, as peak mortality occurred between six weeks and four months of age for children living with HIV/Aids. High performance and accurate testing Aptima HIV-1 Quant Dx Assay is a highly sensitive test, which can use plasma, serum or dried blood spots to get an accurate HIV/ Aids diagnosis on a fully automated PantherTM system. He said the integrated diagnosis solution would help overcome multiple challenges faced by local laboratories. “The new DBS sample solution will improve the collection, preservation and transportation of samples from testing centres to laboratories,” Aptima HIV-1 Quant Dx Assay was awarded World Health Organisation (WHO) pre-qualification for in vitro diagnostics using plasma samples on December 21, 2017, which allows global health organisations to consider Aptima HIV-1 Quant Dx Assay for public sector procurement in resource limited countries. A less costly viral diagnostic solution for governments, NGOs and laboratories following recent Hologic Global Access Initiative launched in partnership with the Clinton Health Alliance Initiative (CHAI) and MedAccess. HIV-1 Quant Dx Assay will be available at $12 (about 28,000/-) with no upfront cost or capital expenditure in nearly 50 nations, including Tanzania, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.