MOSHI-based KCMC Super Referral Hospital in Kilimanjaro Region has received 1bn/- from the government for purchase of medicines for cancer patients in the 2018/2019 fiscal year. The hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Geleard Masenga, speaking during this year’s World Cancer Day commemorated at the facility’s grounds, said: “Already, the government has deposited 450m/- at the Medical Stores Department for the purpose and the medicines supplied will be provided to cancer patients charge free,” he said. Dr Masenga said the move will help to address the challenge of medication to patients receiving treatments at the hospital, highlighting another challenge as shortage of blood for cancer patients. “The shortage of blood for cancer patients is also a big challenge which we face here; may I take this opportunity to appeal to all well-wishers whose health status allow them to donate blood to do so to help the needy patients,” he implored. On the services provided to cancer patients at the referral hospital, Dr Masenga said the hospital received 9,312 cancer patients between 2016 and 2018. “Out of the number, 1,445 were new patients, with 7 78 men and 667 women,” he said, adding that patients visiting the hospital to seek treatment concerning the disease have been increasing every year. Speaking during the occasion, the Head of the KCMC Cancer Care Unit Dr Furaha Serventi urged parents and guardians to ensure children are subjected to cancer checkups. “About 90 per cent of children with cancer can be cured completely but only if the disease is diagnosed in its early stages and this can only be achieved if parents and guardians make the habit of checking their children’s health status,” he said. Rombo District Commissioner (DC) who graced the commemorations said the government will continue working with the KCMC hospital to ensure it achieves its ultimate goal of providing good services to cancer patients. “I urge you to continue providing friendly services to your patients…cancer patients need great love which is a great pillar as far as your services are concerned,” she said. She also urged patients who get treatment at the hospital’s cancer department to abide by expert advice, including using prescribed medications as directed.