TANZANIA Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) yesterday received 25 vehicles for the Rural Energy Agency (REA) Phase III projects currently under execution, countrywide. The 3.1bn/- valued vehicles, according to Energy Minister Dr Medard Kalemani will help engineers supervising REA projects to easily visit the projects sites in all villages without delays. “These vehicles will fast track the project implementation and we do not expect any complaint that there are insufficient vehicles to oversee the projects,” he warned. Dr Kalemani handed over the brand new Land Cruisers to TANESCO Managing Director Dr Tito Mwinuka at a brief ceremony here, with both REA and TANESCO Board Chairmen, Michael Nyagonga and Dr Alexander Kyaruzi, respectively, attending. Dr Kalemani directed TANESCO and REA managements and boards of directors to ensure that the projects are accomplished within the agreed timelines or even before deadline. He said the government was committed to ensuring that all villages were connected to electricity by 2021. REA Phase three is expected to be completed by June 2019, with the rural power agency insisting that all villages countrywide will be connected to the National Grid by 2021 as per the ruling CCM’s 2015 election manifesto. The minister further directed TANESCO to ensure that by the end of this month, all people who had paid and requested for power connection are connected. He warned officials and drivers who were using the vehicles intended to implement REA projects for private matters, including carrying charcoal and other passengers who were not part of the projects. Dr Mwinuka said in the 2018/2019 budget, the public power utility firm had allocated 6 4bn/- to ensuring that all projects are accomplished. “So far, implementation of REA phase three projects is at 49 per cent and we have added 10,288 new customers,’’ he said during his presentation at a working meeting that brought together all stakeholders in REA projects. The meeting was attended by all zonal, regional and district managers, contractors, engineers, technicians and suppliers, among others. Speaking at the meeting with stakeholders, Dr Kalemani said the government will not hesitate to blacklist all contractors bent on delaying REA projects. The minister said although there are some contractors doing a great job, there are firms that had been paid yet they failed to fast track the projects.