THE Federal Republic of Germany is currently engaging Tanzania in finalising the restitution of the Tendaguru dinosaur fossils that are currently preserved at a museum in Berlin. The two countries have recently been in deep discussions, exploring ways of returning the dinosaur remains that are kept at the Natural History Museum of Berlin. Responding to questions posed to him by ‘Daily News’ on Monday evening, German Ambassador to Tanzania Dr Detlef Waechter said experts from both countries have constantly been discussing ways of returning the fossils back to Tanzania. Dr Waechter, who was speaking shortly before seeing off the country’s delegation to Berlin for the International Tourism Fair Berlin (ITB) slated for next month, maintained that Tanzania had a legitimate right to own and being in possession of its relics, but it was still up to the experts to decide on how and when the relic should be returned. “We don’t want to shy away from these discussions, our aim is to eventually see the fossils transferred to Tanzania,” explained the diplomat. The German Ambassador stressed that his country was willing to help Tanzania in hosting the dinosaur in the country. “I have been in constant discussions with the country’s head of museums on how best we can realise the restitution,” he said. The bones of the large Sauropod, also known as Janenschia, were among the first fossils found during the Tendaguru expedition. Although only the remains of the legs and two vertebrae belonging to two different animals were found during the expedition, the animal is said to be a fascination to scientists working in the state-of-the-art museum, according to available literature about the fossils. Last year, the government revealed that it was working on plans to construct a museum in Tendaguru village in Lindi Region, where the fossils will be preserved. The Tendaguru Beds as a fossil deposit were first discovered in 1906, when German pharmacist, chemical analyst and mining engineer Bernhard Wilhelm Sattler, on his way to a mine south of the Mbemkure River in German East Africa (today Tanzania), noticed enormous bones weathering out of the path near the base of a hill. Because of its morphology, the hill was locally known as steep hill Tendaguru in the language of the local Wamwera people. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Prof Adolf Mkenda, welcomed Germany’s move of supporting Tanzania in the cause. “There is an urgent need of investing in museums where our artifacts can be preserved,” explained the PS. He further disclosed that 50 per cent of the proceeds from the Olduvai Gorge’s museum in Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) will be channelled towards upgrading of museums in the country. The Tanzanian delegation for Berlin which comprises 160 people drawn from the tourism and the hospitality sector, is set to leave the country early next month for the massive tourism expo which stretched from March 6 to March 10. Tanzania will be participating in the exhibition for the 53rd time since its inception. The expo is the furthermost business platform for global touristic offers where more than 10,000 exhibitors from 180 countries will be present and over 160,000 visitors are expected to visit the ITB.