CHIEF executives from legal aid organisations operating in Tanzania met yesterday in Dodoma to strategise on workable and resultsoriented ways for expanding legal aid services delivery and assist needy people out of legal and related problems countrywide. The legal aid stakeholders’ forum attracted top officials (directors and board members) from legal aid organisations which are involved in implementation of paralegal and legal aid services through financial and technical support from the Legal Services Facility (LSF). LSF is a non-governmental and profit basket funding currently supporting paralegals and related projects/activities in Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar. “This meeting serves as a platform for legal aid providers, particularly our grantees to share experience on successes registered, challenges countered in the implementation of legal aid programmes and chart out practical strategies on better ways of taking legal aid and paralegal services to the needy people,” LSF Programme Manager, Ramadhan Maselle, said during the official opening of the three-day LSF’s Grantees leadership Workshop in Dodoma. The focus of the forum, according to Maselle, was to ensure that legal aid services and paralegal services are accessible throughout the country down to the grass root level. Among other things, LSF grantees will broadly and exhaustively digest cost-effective ways to assist poor and disadvantaged people, particularly women, to access legal aid paralegals’ services at affordable cost and ultimately ensure enhanced access to justice for all Tanzanians. “Through this meeting, high-level leaders from legal aid organisations will get to know the direction and priorities of the LSF for 2019, which are also linked up with other national access to justice priorities. This further acts as a reminder to issues that are very important for the project implementation that need to be considered.” Participants will also discuss at length the entire LSF programme, how to sustain the projects/activities of paralegal units, grantees and other stakeholders involved in the implementation of LSF-funded projects. “Project sustainability is an important aspect, that’s why the main theme for 2019 is ‘LSF Grantees beyond 2020; Strengths and Challenges.’ This theme, among other things, calls for LSF, its grantees and other stakeholders particularly to look at the future of the legal aid providers in carrying forward the current work on access to justice, discuss on the present access to justice situation in the country, types of responses and or interventions implemented and the ability to strengthen approaches (what we do) past 2020,” read part of an official statement issued by LSF at the forum. Grantees leadership workshop in Dodoma will be a unique opportunity for LSF and its grantees to take stock on the collective knowledge and skills on how legal aid services can be sustained, considering the history, methodology and evidence from the field. The forum is expected to involve 106 participants, including LSF grantees CEO/ED’s and their governing board members, selected representatives from key government ministries (TAMISEMI, MOCLA, MHA, Land and MHCDGEC) and journalists. During the workshop, LSF issued certificates of excellence to 8 paralegal units which performed very well in various aspects, including resource mobilisation, programme implementation and financial management in 2018. The paralegal units include Kibondo Kigoma, Makete Njombe, Katuka Dodoma, Toje Tanga, Kyela Mbeya, Ukerewe Mwanza, Serengeti Mara and Micheweni Zanzibar.