INDUSTRY players in maritime, mining and petroleum businesses have breathed a sigh of relief following deferment on enforcement of the exclusive mandate on clearance of sensitive exports and imports by Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC) from March to June, this year. The exclusive mandate on clearing and forwarding services for selected sensitive goods which is legally granted to TASAC is, among others, aimed at checking under-declaration of mineral exports, fuel imports and controlling imports and exports of arms and ammunitions, live animals and government trophies. TASAC was initially scheduled to begin implementing its mandate starting Monday next week but after consultations with stakeholders in the lucrative industry, it decided to push the date to June 3, this year. The Acting Director General of TASAC, Eng Japhet Loisimaye, explained in a public notice yesterday that the rescheduling on enforcing of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 14 of 2017, is aimed at providing enough time to industry players to adjust for effective compliance. “Stakeholders are urged to take note that the effective date of June 3, 2019 will not be revised; hence they are expected to do all necessary adjustments of their plans and operations accordingly,” Eng Loisimaye stressed in the notice. The newly established state-owned corporation had gazzetted March 4, 2019 as the effective date of the mandate but players in the industry raised concerns that the notice did not provide enough time for adjusting to the new arrangement. Since then, all involved parties have been engaged in a series of meetings which were also attended by the Minister of Works, Transport and Communication, Eng Isack Kamwelwe, and Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dr Leonard Chamuriho. Reacting to the adjournment, the Chairman of Tanzania Shipping Agents Association (TASAA), Mr John Massawe, told ‘Daily News’ that shipping stakeholders had no problem with enforcement of the legislation but wanted more time for adjusting their plans and operations. “Stakeholders wanted more time for preparations so as not to distract the industry. We were also advocating involvement of the Government Clearing Agency to create competition,” Mr Massawe urged in a telephone interview. The TASAA chair also allayed fears that the exclusive mandate granted to TASAC will not lead to loss of jobs. “It will be just a change of jobs from private players to the state-owned corporation.” The Secretary General of Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA), Mr Tony Swai, was glad that the government had taken on board recommendations of stakeholders in the industry to enable smooth implementation of the law. “This is one step; there are still some issues which need to be discussed between stakeholders. For instance, the legislation is silent on minerals and petroleum products which are transported on transit from and to landlocked countries through Tanzania.” Mr Swai told ‘Daily News’. Section 7 (1) (a) of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 14 of 2017, also empowers TASAC to undertake clearing and forwarding services for products and/or extracts related to minerals and petroleum, arms and ammunitions, live animals and government trophies. That is, no any other institution other than TASAC shall be allowed to make new declarations to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for the purpose of clearing and forwarding services for imports and exports of goods cited in the legislation. TASAC was established under Section 4 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 4 of 2017, to regulate ports, shipping services, maritime environment in addition to safety and security.