HIGH Court’s Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division has sentenced a Peruvian to 20 years in jail over trafficking of cocaine hydrochloride—narcotic drugs—in Tanzania. Judge Winfrida Korosso passed the verdict against Wallestein Santillan in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday after convicting him of the offence of trafficking 1.42 kilogrammes of the narcotic drugs based on the evidence produced by 10 prosecution witnesses. Lady Justice Korosso explained that the prosecution, led by Principal State Attorney Tumaini Kweka, as well as State Attorneys Tuli Helela and Kija Luzingana, sufficiently proved beyond reasonable doubt that the foreigner committed the offence he was charged with. Before being sentenced, Advocate Abbriat Kivea, for the convict, had asked the court to provide lenient sentence to her client because he was the first offender, has stayed in remand for more than two years and he has not been able to communicate with his family since his arrest in 2017. However, the prosecution team requested the court to severely punish the convict, considering the nature and seriousness of the offence. The prosecution argued that the offence of trafficking illicit drugs in the country has adverse social and economic effects to the nation. The prosecution bench charged that the offences have been the source of many youths getting into drug abuse and other related crimes, rendering them helpless to the nation as they can hardly participate in economic and productive activities. Facts show that Santillan landed at Julius Nyerere International Airport on November 16, 2017 from Brazil through Emirates Airline using a passport issued in Peru. As he was moving outside the airport having his two bags, one in pink colour and another in purple, he was arrested by police officers, who suspected him to be dealing in drugs. The two bags were searched, with the pink coloured bag found with 15 packets of powder and the purple with 16 packets of powder suspected to be drugs. All the 31 packets containing the powder suspected to be narcotic drugs together with the two bags were taken by the officers of the Drug Control and Enforcement Authority after filling a seizure certificate, which was also signed by the accused. The suspected powder drug was examined by the analyst and found to be narcotic drugs, Cocaine Hydrochloride, weighing 1420.78 grams. The accused was charged based on the facts.