AS hundreds of Dar es Salaam residents turned up at the Mlimani City to collect their running numbers for the much awaited Kilimanjaro Marathon 2019, the exercise moves to Arusha today and tomorrow. A statement issued by the organisers immediately after completion of the exercise in Dar es Salaam, said the turnout was encouraging just as was the online registration. “This is the first time we have fully used online registration and Tigopesa, and the response is overwhelming,” said the statement in part. One of the participants, Mohamed Said said, “This online registration has made number collection easy as I have hardly spent 10 minutes here and I got my number. Other marathons must emulate this.” “I thought I would spend the whole day here for this exercise but within seven minutes I had my number, this is so encouraging, said Grace Matiku another participant. The exercise involved collection of numbers for the 42km full marathon and 21km half marathon and Grand Malt 5km Fun Run as well. The number collection exercise in Arusha will take place from 14:00 to 20:00 at the Kibo Palace Hotel and there will be registration for fun run on a cash only basis. In Moshi, race number collection will be conducted on 27 February (10:00 – 17:00) and 28 February (10:00 – 20:00) at Keys Hotel where runners who pre-entered for the full and half marathon, and fun run will collect their numbers and there will be registration for the fun run as well. “We will also allocate 1 March (10:00 – 17:00) and 2 March (9:00 – 12:00) for outstanding race number collection only for full marathon, half marathon and fun run for pre-entered only. There will be no registration at all during these two days and none on race day (Sunday 3 March),” said the organisers, adding that they will not be responsible for those who will travel to Moshi after the numbers are all sold because participants had ample time to pre-register and pre-pay. The Kibo Palace Senior Marketing and Sales Manager, Patricia Maina said they are all set for the exercise and are proud to partner with Kilimanjaro Marathon once again. “Apart from being water tables sponsors of the event, we are glad to host the number collection exercise and registration of 5km Fun Run,” she said adding that as Kibo Palace they are all geared to take part in the Corporate Challenge. Sponsors for this year’s event include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42km, Tigo-21km Half Marathon, Grand Malt 5km Fun Run and water table sponsors and partners KK Security, Keys Hotel, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, AAR, Kibo Palace, Barclays Bank, Precision Air and CMC Automobiles.