PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa  has ordered Rombo District Council to pay Holili village 114m/-, which represents 20 per cent of revenue collected from pozzolana that was mined there. The PM issued the order after receiving complaints from villagers through messages on placards they waved at him when he was touring the village. Mr Majaliwa stressed that all officials should discharge their obligations with a high degree of honesty, their priority being to serve wananchi. He gave the District Council until March 10 to remit the money to the village. He asked Rombo District Executive Director (DED), Ms Magreth John to hold a meeting with the council’s committee responsible for the issue and ensure that the money was paid by the set deadline. The Premier furthermore directed Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner Ms Anna Mghwira and Rombo District Commissioner Ms Agness Hokororo to ensure that the council paid the money. He pointed out that the village not being paid would imply that pozzolana business did not conform to State laws and directives and was thus illegal. Pozzolana, also known as pozzolanic ash, is a natural siliceous and aluminous material that is extensively used as an addition to Portland cement. Compared to industrial by-products pozzolans are characterised by larger ranges in composition and a larger variability in physical properties. The application of pozzolana in Portland cement is mainly controlled by the local availability of suitable deposits and the competition with the accessible industrial by-product supplementary cementitious materials. In part due to the exhaustion of the latter sources and the extensive reserves of pozzolana available, and partly because of the proven technical advantages of an intelligent use of pozzolana, their use is expected to be strongly expanded in the future. In another development, Mr Majaliwa ordered for completion of Holili Market that has been under a construction process for more than a decade. He was upset by the delay, saying it had denied the government of revenue, as people sold and bought goods in and from a neighbouring country. He also ordered the council to construct parking lots for buses and trucks as that would be yet another source of revenue. Holili, a town in Rombo District, sits at the international border with Taveta town in Kenya. It hosts the Holili/ Taveta Customs and Immigration Post that is a One Stop Border Post under the East African Community.