THE Export and Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) said the improved investment climate has upped the number of inquiries and prospective investors coming to explore investment opportunities. EPZA’s Director for Investment Promotion and Facilitation Mr James Maziku said yesterday in Dar es Salaam after hosting a business delegation from Hong Kong showing key interest in agro-processing sector. “We have been receiving many inquiries from various investors worldwide asking detailed information on various investment potentials,” he said. He added that the number of foreign investors coming into the country seeking information in various sectors are also on the increase. The Rand Merchant Bank 2018 edition of where to invest in Africa released recently placed Tanzania among the top 10 African countries to invest in 2019. According to the report that assesses the economic outlook and investment opportunities in Africa, “Tanzania is now one of Africa’s most exciting investment destinations climbing up to number seven in this year’s ranking”. “Tanzania has many business openings through investments under the incentive rich of Export Processing Zones (EPZ) and Special Economic Zones (SEZ) schemes,” he said. He mentioned some of the strategic areas including the agricultural and mineral processing industries as among that yearn for serious investment. Speaking on behalf of Honorary Consulate General and Macau to Tanzania Business Delegation Members, Ms Jessica So said they have received detailed information on the Tanzania investment opportunities after successful meetings with the EPZA and Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC) officials. “We are very excited by the immense opportunities in Tanzania and when we go back we will make informed decision to come to invest in Tanzania particularly in agro-processing industries,” she said citing cashew nut as key area of great interest. The EPZA Investment Promotion Manager, Grace Lemunge said during the presentations to the business delegation that Tanzania’s geographical location and endowment of natural resources give the country immense competitive advantage over other neighbouring countries.