THE rapid development of innovation ecosystem in Tanzania over the past five years has improved the country’s ranking in the Global Innovation Index (GII), moving up 31 positions from 123 in 2013 to 92 in 2018. This was revealed recently by Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF) team leader, David McGinty during the launch of a report dubbed ‘Investing in Social Innovation and Technology in Tanzania: HDIF’s Reflections and Recommendations 2013-2018’. The report was launched during a one-day media workshop with the theme “The Role of Media in Promoting Innovation in Tanzania” in Dar es Salaam. He said the innovation ecosystem in Tanzania had developed rapidly over the past five years, with an increase in the number of individuals and institutions stepping up and becoming more active, visible and connected than ever before. “New start-ups and hubs are cropping up every day and there is growing awareness of the role that innovation can play in finding solutions to large and pervasive development challenges,” he noted. McGinty said during that time the country’s ranking in GII had climbed up 31 positions from 123 in 2013 to 92 in 2018. He said the report aimed at acting as a catalyst for change by increasing knowledge and understanding about the complex practice of social innovation in Tanzania. “Over the past five years, we have had the great fortune of supporting Tanzanian innovators to bring their ideas to fruition and test out new ways of doing things. Innovation is risky and whilst there have been some big wins and success stories, there are times where things have not worked out as envisaged – but we have learned a lot in the process,” he noted. He, however, said whilst Tanzania had progressed, the innovation ecosystem was still in its early stages where institutions were constrained by limited resources and competing priorities. He urged HDIF partners to reflect on the recommendations and consider how they could be applied to support social innovation that creates real and lasting change, now and in the future. “HDIF is a proud champion of some of the most inspiring and creative Tanzanian innovators in the country – individuals and organisations committing time, energy and resources to help address some of the country’s toughest development challenges,” he said. He noted that HDIF intended to share what it had learned for others to capitalise on, help ensure that mistakes were not replicated, that limited resources were used effectively and take best practice approaches to scale. A representative from the Commission for Science and Technology (Costech), Ms Bestina Daniel, who is a research officer, said Tanzania had improved a lot in innovation compared to the past five years. She said the government had committed its resources to support research and innovation in the country, thus encouraging more innovators in the country. “We are witnessing various development projects compared to 2013, different applications have been developed through ICT... many youths have come up with innovative products, which have helped to build confidence,” she said. Ms Natalie Smith on behalf of UK Aid Tanzania said, “we are excited to share what we have learned through this report and to encourage others looking to support innovation in Tanzania.”