DIRECTOR of Public Prosecution (DPP) has been ordered to surrender all original documentary exhibits tendered in evidence in the trial of four Chinese over alleged smuggling of 11 rhino horns. Court of Appeal Justices Stella Mugasha, Richard Mziray and Jacobs Mwambegele ordered that the DPP should hand over the exhibits, which were improperly returned to him by Mbeya Resident Magistrate’s Court, to enable the Registrar of the High Court to prepare fresh records of two consolidated appeals. The appeals, one by the DPP, are seeking to challenge the acquittal of the Chinese—Song Leo (33), Xiao Shaodan (29), Chen Jianlin (34) and Hu Liang (30)— in an economic sabotage case. Song Lei is also appealing against his conviction of two counts among three charges they were facing during the trial. The exhibits include temporary importation or exportation permit of road vehicle, valuation report of the horns, certificate of search and seizure, trophy evaluation report, handover of the car, Song Lei’s TIN, entry arrival declaration, motor vehicle file and cyber examination report. Others are mobile phone examination report, the letter to request mobile phone examination, declaration of importation of Song Lei’s motor vehicle and driving licence as well as passports of accused, vaccination certificate and international certificates of Song Lei. “We wish to state that the documentary exhibits now in the hands of the prosecution are crucial for determination of this second appeal,” the justices said in their ruling in Mbeya City recently. “We say so because, this being the second appeal, the court would probably be required to re-evaluate the evidence, that process will entail having a glance of the exhibits put in evidence at the trial. That will entail scrutinising the documentary exhibits as well,” they further charged. The justices noted that though the prosecution had requested the trial court to give them passports of the accused as were needed for some criminal investigations in Dar es Salaam, they were given all the documentary exhibits after the delivery of the decision of the High Court on first appeal. “We must confess that the order made by the trial court really taxed our minds. They certainly were made prematurely. The disposal of exhibits was made before the appeal ‘was determined and exhausted. This offended section 353 (1) of the CPA (Criminal Procedure Act),” they said. According to the justices, it needed not be overemphasized that once tendered and admitted in evidence exhibits must be in the custody of the trial court and could only be disposed of in terms of section 353 of the CPA. But, they said, what happened in the case at hand was strange and found themselves pressed to interject that the prosecution was the contributor to the anomaly by the trial court. “We say so because despite knowing full well that the passports of the accused were ordered to be returned, yet, through an administrative letter, the prosecution applied to be availed with them for investigation purposes in another case in Dar es Salaam,” they noted. The justices said that kind of approach was a fragrant disregard of the court order which required that the same be returned to the accused persons, the incorrectness of the order notwithstanding. “We insist that adherence of the letter of the law is of paramount importance not only in disposal of exhibits but also on other aspects. The orders made by the trial court are strange. Disposal or otherwise of exhibits should be done with observance of the law,” they said. Before Mbeya Resident Magistrate’s Court, the four foreigners were charged with economic case containing three counts of leading organised crime, unlawful dealing in trophy and unlawful possession of government trophy. After full trial, all accused were convicted as charged and sentenced to 15 years in jail for leading organised crime, fines 836 ,000 US dollars or three years in jail for unlawful dealing in trophy and 20 years in jail and fine of 4,180,000 dollars for unlawful possession of government trophies. The court also ordered confiscation of a Toyota pickup truck and the 11 rhino horns as well as the electronic devices that were used by the Chinese smugglers and put under the custody of the Director of Wildlife for proper disposal. The convicts appealed to the High Court, which allowed the appeal in respect of X iao Shaodan, Chen Jianlin and Hu Liang. Song Lei’s appeal was allowed on the count of leading organised crime but failed in respect of the other remaining two charges. The DPP crossed over to the appeals court to challenge the verdict. In his part, Song Lei also decided to appeal against his conviction of the two counts.