HOLDERS Simba maintained their superb performance in the Mainland Premier League, thrashing hosts Lipuli FC 3-1 at Samora Stadium in Iringa yesterday. Playmaker, Clatous Chama grabbed a brace in the first half as red hot Meddie Kagere netted the third in the second half. Striker Paul Nonga scored the only goal for Lipuli in the opening 45 minutes. Victory against Lipuli means that Simba have finally killed the wining less jinx at the Samora Stadium, a venue they struggled to collect maximum points for the past three seasons. The defending champions still sit third on the table with 48 points from 19 matches, meaning that they have closed the gap to two points behind second placed Azam FC, who have 50 points from 25 encounters. Their traditional rivals Young Africans still top the pile with 61 points after 25 outings, 13 points clear of Simba. Just four minutes from the onset, Zambian midfielder, Chama put Simba ahead, reacting to a Mohammed Hussein’s pass to tap home. After the goal, hosts Lipuli reorganised and tried to hit Simba on the break. Nonga almost pulled level in the 6th minute, releasing a long range shot which was punched away by goalkeeper, Aishi Manula for a corner. Two minutes later, Kagere strode through a defender before releasing a nice shot which was superbly cleared by Lipuli’s goalkeeper, Mohamed Yusuf, for an abortive corner kick. In the 15th minute, Kagere drew a challenge from Haruna Shamte but Okwi blasted wide from a resultant free kick. Lipuli pulled level in the 17th minute, former Yanga striker, Nonga pounced on a pass from Daruwesh Saliboko. Then, in the 23rd minute, Okwi’s fierce short came off a defender. Three minutes later, Kagere outpaced Haruna Shamte and released a first time shot but goalkeeper was well placed to gather the ball. A minute later, Okwi headed wide Kagere’s cross and at this moment, it was one way traffic as Simba were charging all over to regain their lead. Lipuli also pressed Simba, creating several scoring chances and they ought to have taken the lead in the 32nd minute, but Seif Karie’s effort was denied by Manula, who stretched to the limit to push away the shot on target. The Msimbazi Reds regained the lead a minute before the interval, when Chama’s set piece caught keeper Yusuf flat footed for Simba’s second and his brace of the day. After the break, Simba started from where they had left in the first half and in the 46th minute, Kagere thought he had scored the third, heading in a cross from the skipper, John Bocco but referee ruled it out for an offside. The Rwandan striker was yards away from defenders. Simba were home and dry in the 57th minute following a clever display. Jonas Mkude played through Okwi wide on the left and the Ugandan found Kagere in space for the hit man to lob the onrushing goalkeeper. Kagere now ties with Heritier Makambo and Mwadui FC’s Salim Aiyee of Mwadui FC on 12 goals in the campaign as race for golden boot intensifies. Okwi, the last season’s top scorer with 20 goals, turned provider. In the 59th minute, Hassan Dilunga replaced Okwi. Dilunga almost caught keeper napping with his first touch, unleashing a powerful shot but the keeper collected the ball. Lipuli were reduced to ten men in the 64th minute, when Paul Ngalema was shown straight red card for intentionally elbowing Bocco. And in the 73rd minute, Kagere picked the ball from skipper, Ally Sonso and raced into the box but his square cross failed to find his teammate in the box. With ten minutes to go, Dilunga wasted a clear opportunity to net the fourth after being set clear by Chama. He shot straight into the hands of a waiting goalkeeper at the near post. In the 84th minute, Haruna Niyonzima replaced Chama and with two minutes to go, Simba thought they have scored the fourth when Kagere tapped in a Bocco’s header, but referee ruled it out, adjudging that keeper was fouled.