PREPARATIONS are in full swing to stage “Missenyi Investment Forum and Expo” in Missenyi District, Kagera Region billed to attract both local and foreign investors to explore trading and investment opportunities in the district. The Member of Parliament for Nkenge Constituency, Ambassador Diodorus Kamala told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that the forum would be held in July this year and they hope it would be a great event to the district regarded as a gateway to the East African Community (EAC) region due to its strategic geographical location. “Missenyi District is a gateway to the East African Community (EAC) region due to its proximity to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Kenya across Lake Victoria. The district has enormous areas of arable land and a big potential to be a main food producer in the region,” he said. The district has also set aside a big area for establishing medium and large industries, he said noting that they expect to attract Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi investors to establish industries and hotels and lodges. The district has the potential to attract investments in other key sectors which include agriculture, health, education and minerals. He said industries that produce goods for mass consumption such as clothes, textiles and edibles are highly encouraged. “Industries have great potential of creating jobs and attracting capital, skills and knowledge…industrialisation is the way to prosperity…national development cannot be imported, it must come from within.” He further said several projects have been earmarked for implementation including construction of an international market complex at Mutukula, a modern bus stand at Kyaka and a 16 kilometre tarmac road linking Minziro-Mutukula. According to Dr Kamala, the district recently acquired land at Bunazi after paying about 100m/- for construction of a modern market complex. Also, he said three crops including wheat, vanilla and sunflower have been identified as alternative cash crops that would get priority for large-scale irrigation farming.