DAR ES SALAAM Stock Exchange (DSE) set to attain a frontier market status and become the tenth such exchange in Africa this September. The frontier market status by FTSE Russell will mean that the DSE has met the necessary standards to graduate from unclassified to classified status. DSE Chief Executive Officer, Moremi Marwa told the `Daily News’ in an interview that the classification to frontier market will not only stimulate interests of global investors but will also enhance investors’ confidence to invest in Dar bourse. “Tanzania will be considered for possible reclassification from Unclassified to Frontier market status in September 2019,” he said. He further said through this DSE will be able to access global portfolio investable funds that are meant to be invested in markets that have a frontier market status. “… Currently, as we are not classified, we do not have access to these investable funds,” Mr Marwa said. The classification will also mean an increase of profile and visibility of the exchange to global investors. Exchanges classified by FTSE Russell as frontier markets in Africa are nine -Botswana, Egypt, Cote de Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Morocco, Nigeria and Tunisia. The World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) last month approved the full membership to DSE after its board met in London. The achievement put the Dar exchange on the watch list of FTSE Russell that will propel the upgrading to frontier market status in September after meeting set conditions. Mr Marwa said achieving WFE full membership means an exchange has complied with the condition and standard set by WFE, which is Global Association of Exchanges and CCPs. “Full membership to the WFE gives the market an opportunity to access a network of other exchanges across the global in sharing knowledge, technical expertise, experiences and research materials which are useful to exchanges, depends on the status to which the exchange is in,” he said. “The watch list exists to alert the wider market that in depth engagement is taking place with a market being considered for a reclassification change,” the DSE chief said. The exercise also provides an opportunity for investors to share their experience of operating in the market to plan for a potential classification change. To make sure that DSE is upgraded it has an ongoing engagements with FTSE Russell providing information and updating the committee on market and regulatory environment and custody and settlement of securities—t he key interest being on mechanisms of management of settlement risk.