SUMBAWANGA District Commissioner, Dr Khalfan Haule has called for an increased budget for the newly commissioned Tanzania Rural Roads Authority (TARURA) to cater for the improved dilapidated rural roads network. Dr Haule suggested that TARURA budget for the project implementation should be increased form the current 30 per cent to 50 per cent. “Most of the economic activities are from rural areas, their distribution to the markets widely depend on the rural road infrastructure network, which in most parts is in poor shape, therefore we need to make them stable financially to address the situation” said Dr Haule. He gave the sentiments here yesterday when speaking to reporters who are on a mission to see the implementation of the TARURA projects in Rukwa and Katavi regions. Dr Haule gave an example of his area of command, saying most of the farmers and entrepreneurs in rural areas fail to accomplish their economic mission as they fetch the lowest prices from buyers for their produce due to poor infrastructures. He said Sumbawanga Municipal Council has a rural road infrastructure network of 472-kilomteres while the Sumbawanga District Council has coverage of 512-kilometers. “Rural road infrastructure is in bad shape, and mind you our area is a wetland and highland, so it makes the whole matter complicated, and the budget allocation does not cater for the demand as it is very limited,” said Dr Haule. He gave an example of 2018/19 financial year, saying of the 512-kilometres in Sumbawanga District Council, TARURA was given funds for 39-kilometres only, which is only seven per cent of the whole network, attributing the factor to low financial resources for the authority. Dr Haule said whenever he meets with relevant authorities; he has been selling the idea for increased financial resources for Tarura which the rural communities need badly for improved road infrastructure and accessibility. He said increasing the budget for TARURA is of paramount importance because the authority caters for almost 80 per cent of the rural road network which the rural communities rely for their social and economic activities.