A RENOWNED anthropologist and environment activist, Dr Jane Goodall, has called for planting of more indigenous trees, which she says will save great apes, gorillas and chimpanzees from extinction. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ the British ethnologist warned that deforestation, which also includes the cutting of indigenous trees, would put chimpanzee population at great risk. “There’s an urgent need for planting more indigenous trees to save these endangered species. Humans will deprive these endangered species of food and shelter if they continue cutting down the trees,” the global conservationist said after engaging students from 17 schools in the region with an inspirational talk on the protection of trees. According to Dr Goodall, although chimps are known for inhabiting tropical rainfall forests, they are fast becoming adaptable to new surroundings, thanks to the depletion of forests. She warned that their new environment was getting smaller day by day, forcing them to encroach on human settlements. “This is dangerous as the chimps have started raiding crops and are in constant conflict with human beings,” noted the primatologist. Dr Goodall explained that changing climatic patterns witnessed around the world shouldn’t be an excuse, stressing that human beings had a moral duty to protect natural resources. Sharing similar sentiments, Echo East Africa Impact Centre director, Erwin Kinsey said most of the indigenous trees found in Tanzania were disappearing at an alarming rate due to human activities. He said most of the tree species were being harvested for money, urging members of the public to plant more trees to reverse the situation. Some of the trees that are on the verge of extinction, according to Mr Kinsey, include the East African Yellowwood commonly referred to as Mpodo, African Blackwood (Mpingo), Sandalwood (Msandali) and the African Teak (Mninga). For her part, a community development officer with Terra project implemented by Istituto Oikos through increasing students' knowledge of climate change and promoting respect for the environment said Dr Goodall’s meeting with the students would inspire them to protect nature. Ms Elias, whose organisation organises a number of public awareness campaign activities in Shangarao, Burka Estate and Njiro Hill Primary Schools, was optimistic that the pupils would become good ambassadors at their respective schools in environmental protection.