THE 2019 Vijana Cup competition is set to wind up in Dar es Salaam today, where Hunter team is scheduled to lock horns with Dr Hashim’s side in the final billed to be tough. The final playoff is scheduled to take place at Zanaki ground in Dar es Salaam and fans are eagerly waiting for the battle. The Competition Coordinator, Ashraf Harun told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparations are complete for them to host the final. “Thanks to God everything is going on well as we reach the final, we invite as many fans as possible to come forward and cheer their teams in the final. It is going to be a competitive one, both are very good teams and it is difficult to predict the winner,” he said. Harun said that the annual competition which is much improved this time around is organised by Dar es Salaam based famous basketball club Vijana ‘City Bull’. Among others, he said the competition aimed at promoting the game and identifying new talents. He said six teams competed in the event that started last month. He said the teams were named after club’s leaders and former basketball players. Harun named other teams that took part in the battle as Masumba, Delphinius, JB and Mbamba. Hunter is a team that was named in honour of former Vijana player, the late Adam Kassimu, while Dr Hashim is the sponsor and patron of Vijana City Bulls team. According to Harun, the final is played on best of three format, in which matches have already been played two weeks ago, with each team winning one game. It means, winner of today’s game will be crowned 2019 champion. Harun said that the champion will be awarded a trophy, while there will also be prizes for individual, including Best Player, Best Scorer and Best Defender of the competition. KB are the defending champions. They lifted the title last year before the tournament’s format changed this time around, with teams named after leaders and former players. Basketball stakeholders, including the Tanzanian Basketball Federation (TBF) General Secretary Michael Mwita, national youth coach Bahati Mgunda and Shadrack Mwansasu commended Vijana club for a wonderful job.