TTCL Corporation’s subsidiary company, T-Pesa has partnered with the South Korean consortium companies to build cashless transaction platform that will allow real time payments of goods and services and drive up cashless economy. The Head of T-Pesa company Mr Moses Alphonce said that the 5-7 years partnership deal signed in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday will enable the deployment of the largest payments ecosystem to encompass modern customer to business and business to business service platform. “The prepaid card with contactless payment process- Tpesa smart card will allow a person to pay for everyday items by holding transaction smartcard close to an acquiring device using the Radio-frequency identification (RFID),” he said adding that this is an area that remains largely untapped as 96 per cent of the population are still using cash to pay for goods and services. He said the smartcard to be provided to all people free of charge is expected to drive up the use of cashless platform and minimize the use of cash in making transactions. Apart from reducing risks of carrying cash, he said with the platform the government will be able to monitor closely various transactions and collect more revenue. He said platform to be developed through the partnership with Korean consortium companies including Paylink Korea, KEB Hana card and ATEC & T is expected to be completed later this year. He said the transaction carried out using smart cards is normally completed real time with no need to sign or key a number into keypad. He said the system is envisioned to be arguably the most scalable payment and settlement framework which will position T-Pesa to be the most efficient payment solution provider. “It is within our vision to provide ecosystem that will onboard financial system services for both government and other non-government sectors,” he added. Speaking at the event, the chairman of the Group of companies Mr MoonKyu Lee said positive growth prospects of T-Pesa Company is one of the reasons that prompted them to partner in introducing the cashless platform. “With T-Pesa cashless transaction, we believe all transactions will be transparent, increase revenue and lead the country to a digital transaction era,” he noted.