IT’S a right time for a campaign and mobilisation to enable our envoys; Serengeti Boys to perform well in the Under-19 Africa Cup of Nations that will kicks off on 14th April in Dar es Salaam. Time is running short as there are only ten weeks remaining before Tanzanian U-17 team face Nigeria in the tournament’s opener on the day at the National Stadium. Following the team’s success in various continental and regional level events last year, there were several calls from football stakeholders to support and boost the team’s preparations, which for several weeks swept across the country. This campaign received another boost from the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, who urged all Tanzanians to rally behind the team by raising funds to help the team foot preparations’ costs. He came with a rare motivation during his conference with the government information officers in Dodoma that if each Tanzanian donates 200/-, it will raise 1bn/- and set aside as the budget to foot the team’s preparation and participation at the continent’s biggest youth finals. We are sure that a well-trained and tactically superior team wins, hence facilitating the success of the team, it means helping the country to rid itself of underdog status. It is a double mission this time around as Tanzania being the host, must win in the group to qualify for the U-17 World Cup finals. Nobody is going to help us achieve our goal, hence we are the ones obliged to join hands to support our boys technically, financially and morally until we reach the desired end. Though we face too many challenges at the Serengeti Boys camp, history has shown that our patriotic boys perform better regardless of the kind of obstacles they may be facing as challenges. All the boys need to do is to be at ease, be free and focused on their own training as the rest do all, what can be done to ensure everything goes smoothly. It is everyone’s responsibility, because individuals, private and government institutions can join hands to help the team garner what every Tanzanian desires as the ultimate goal. The ball is in our court!