WITH an unprecedented demand for entries into the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon and the Tigo Half Marathon, the organisers have closed the online entries and Tigo Pesa payment options, with over 90 per cent of registration already completed for the two races. In a statement issued in Dar es Salaam, the organisers said the interest and demand for the event has been amazing and added that this year’s use of Tigo Pesa and online options to register has received overwhelming response. It continued to say that it would make available approximately 150 extra full marathon entries and 600 half marathon entries for sale in Moshi only on February 27th and 28th this year, on a first come first served basis, cash only. There will be no additional entries after these are sold, said the organisers. According to the statement, there will be registration for the Grand Malt 5km Fun Run only at the same time as the collection of numbers for registered participants. All participants are advised to collect their numbers at the points they specified on their entry forms and if they are unable to collect them, they will be taken to the next venue. The organisers reiterated that race number collection for the full, half and fun run pre-entries will happen in Dar es Salaam on February 23rd and 24th this year between 13:00 and 19:00 at Mlimani City Mall and the organisers noted that cash registration for the fun run only will be on first come, first served basis. In Arusha race number collection for full marathon, half marathon and Fun Run will be on February 25th and 26th this year, between 14:00 and 20:00 at the Kibo Palace Hotel and there will be registration for fun run on a Cash only basis. In Moshi, race number collection will happen on February 27th (10:00 – 17:00) and February 28th this year (10:00 – 20:00) at Keys Hotel where runners, who pre-entered for the full and half marathon, and fun run will collect their numbers and there will be registration for the fun run as well. “We will also allocate March 1st (10:00 – 17:00) and March 2nd (9:00 – 12:00) for outstanding race number collection only for full marathon, half marathon and fun run for pre-entered only. There will be no registration at all during these two days and none on race day (March 3rd ),” said the organisers adding that they will not be responsible for those who will travel to Moshi after the numbers are all sold because participants had ample time to pre-register and pre-pay. “We would like to also thank all our participants for their tremendous support of The Kilimarathon, Mbio Ya Watu,” said the organisers. Sponsors for this year’s event include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42km, Tigo-21 km Half Marathon, Grand Malt 5 KM Fun Run and water table sponsors and partners KK Security, Keys Hotel, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, AAR, Kibo Palace, Barclays Bank, Precision Air and CMC Automobiles.