Deputy Minister for Agriculture Omary Mgumba said here yesterday that the debt verification by the government revealed that some government officials had hiked the debt with the aim of stealing public funds. “We found out that there was sabotage because the agents submitted 37bn/- claim but the figure was doctored by public officials who later said the agents owed the ministry 65bn/-,’’ he noted. He said the government had submitted their verification report to security machineries, which will, subject to investigations recommend to the government on appropriate steps to take against the deceitful public officials who were involved in the dirty deal. Mr Mgumba was responding to concerns raised by Agricultural Council of Tanzania (ACT) Chairperson Jacqueline Mkindi over delayed payments to agents who distributed agricultural inputs to farmers. Ms Mkindi raised her concerns at the fifth Annual Agricultural Policy Conference (AAPC) which kicked off here yesterday. The conference’s opening session was graced by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Policy and Investment, Angella Kairuki (pictured). Themed: Prioritising Agriculture in the Industrialisation Agenda for Tanzania under the Agricultural Sector Development Programme (ASDP-2), the conference brought together stakeholders from the public sector, agriculture, livestock and fisheries as well as development partners to assess the development in the country’s agricultural policy framework. The prime minister’s office has organised the conference. Agricultural Policy Advisor Professor David Nyange said as the country moves into economic revolution through industrialisation, agriculture sector was equally important. He said unlike the previous years where 80 per cent of Tanzanians depended on agriculture, currently only 65.5 of the country’s population depends on agriculture, meaning, others have shifted into other sectors. In her opening remarks, Ms Kairuki said agriculture contributes 95 per cent to the country’s food self-sufficiency and 65 per cent of raw materials to the domestic industries. She further said 30 per cent of the country’s foreign currency comes from exported agricultural goods, with agricultural sector contributing 25 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product. The minister promised to cement cooperation with all investors, saying her office doors remain open to respond to any bottleneck impairing investment in the country.