A prominent gem trader and director with Tanzanite One (Sky Group Associates), Mr Hussein Gonga has sold all his shares in the company. Reliable sources told the ‘Daily News’ that the businessman who has been with the company that operates in Mererani, Simanjiro District made the decision to secretly quit without offering any reasons, shocking many after the revelation. Since the fifth phase government came to power, Tanzanite business has been controlled, with more check points, military operations as well as construction of a wall around the mining areas. Sky Group Associates is owned by indigenous businesspersons and started mining activities at Plot C, in Mererani in November 2014, possessing 50 percent of shares while the other 50 percent was owned by the government through State Mining Corporation (STAMICO). When contacted for clarification, Mr Gonga did not offer clarification over the matter, but instead said that selling and buying of shares was one of different ways of improving individual economy and the country in general. He said that selling of shares was not a new thing in the business world, neither is it a sin to do so, adding that he did not see why people should be stunned about the news of him selling all his shares that amounted to 20 percent. Mr Gonga said that the decision to sell his shares was his own and did not involve anyone. “What is the problem with me selling my shares? There are so many businesspeople who have sold their shares in different companies before and the matter was not reported, why me? It is fairly normal. In Europe, there are big clubs and shareholders who have sold shares than the ones I have sold, and there were no questions asked,” said the trader. Apart from Mr Gonga, other directors with the company are Mr Feisal Shatbhai who owns 10 percent shares and an Asian businessman, Mr Ridhiwani Muller who owns 70 percent from the 50 percent owned by private investors. The company has halted operations in mining activities for more than 11 months, and workers who stopped working claim they have not been paid their salaries for about 16 months. It is rumored that infrastructure in the mines owned by Tanzanite One have been destroyed by treacherous individuals and need more than 8bn/- to refurbish.