HEALTH experts in Rukwa region plan to conduct special post- mortem on the body of a ‘strange’ creature that resembles a human being. The human-like creature, with soft skin akin to the newly baby born, has its height estimated at 30 centimetres and was seen alive walking around Kalalasi Primary School at Mkali Ward in Kalambo District, Rukwa region on Tuesday. The living creature caused fear to pupils and their teachers, disrupting classes, before they started attacking it with stones. However, as the school students and staff members continued with their assault, the creature disappeared before reappearing at the neighbouring village of Kizombe near the small town of Matai where traditional ‘experts’ alleged to have killed it ‘superstitiously”. Rukwa Regional Medical Officer (RMO) Dr Boniface Kasululu told the ‘Daily News’ in a brief interview that the body of the ‘strange’ creature is currently preserved at Kalambo District Hospital in Matai, awaiting thorough medical investigation to find out its eccentricity. Reached for comment, Regional Police Commander (RPC) George Kyando confirmed the incident, giving scanty details, pending medical examination of the creature. A cross–section of interviewees, mostly from Kalambo District told this paper that they believed the strange creature is either a ghost or extraterrestrial being. “The presence of this ‘ghost’ in our midst here has caused unexplainable panic to most of us, including our children who could not continue with studies on that morning as the strange being was spotted at the school compound at 10am. Their teachers rushed out of office and also saw the strange creature in their midst,” charged a Kalalasi villager who preferred anonymity. The school teachers—Thomas Stephano and Ester Mbuli—admitted to have seen the strange creature walking at the school compound, saying they immediately reported the matter to police. The school head, Billy Philip said the incident had never happened before but in 2013 members of the teaching staff at the school accused each other of superstitious beliefs to the extent of consulting traditional doctors for remedy. “In that year, 2013 teachers from this school were accusing each other of bewitching, to the extent of calling traditional doctors for consultations…fortunately, the government through its district education department intervened and all teaching staff were transferred to other schools,” said the school head. Kalalasi Village Chairman Florence Mwanakatwe said the village leadership will soon convene a public rally to discuss the matter, adding that the incident is the first since the school establishment in 1975. Acting Kalambo District Administrative Secretary (DAS) Andrew Ngindo also confirmed the incident, adding that the body of the strange creature was handed over to medical experts in the district for more examination to find out more of its details.