WATUMISHI Housing Company (WHC) has devised strategies to almost triple its sales to 800 housing units this year from last year’s 300. Under its ‘Mwaka wako, Nyumba yako’ campaign, a public real estate developer seeks to broaden its customer base and simplify the payment terms for the houses it constructs. WHC Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Fred Msemwa said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that the company, which initially targeted public servants, has this year opened doors to private sector employees, self-employed and the diaspora. “Ours is a determination to make possible for all Tanzanians to own decent homes…and that is why we remain the most affordable developer in the market,” said Dr Msemwa, boasting that the company’s houses sell at between 10 and 30 per cent cheaper than the market prices. He said WHC houses are now accessible by employees in the private sector and selfemployed as long as they have membership to the pension funds. “They all have the opportunity to own affordable but decent houses under same favourable terms,” he said, inviting prospective house buyers. The company has as well simplified the payment terms, allowing buyers to pay progressively during the house constructions. It has too increased the payment period from the maximum of 20 to 25 years. Under the tenant purchase arrangement, Dr Msemwa said, the house buyer is allowed to get into the house and have the monthly rent considered as the purchase payment. “We have tried to adopt the simplest payment modes for our houses,” said Dr Msemwa, hinting that the company has customised the house sales to suit the financial position of individual buyers. He said WHC will this year execute more housing projects in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro and Mwanza regions, with the new capital Dodoma getting the unique privilege of having 500 homes constructed. However, Dr Msemwa decried exorbitant interest rates that commercial banks charge on loans as a serious impediment to real estate business in the country. “High interest rates remain a serious challenge…they make it difficult for potential (house) buyers to service their loans,” said Dr Msemwa, expressing optimism however that with time the rate will drop to a considerable level. The public property developer and licensed fund manager for Watumishi Housing Company-Real Estate Investment Trust (WHC-REIT), WHC was established in 2013 and entrusted with the responsibility to build 50,000 affordable housing units for public servants.