LAWYERS here have marked their day with fanfare and different activities as President Ali Mohamed Shein reminded them to remain honest while executing their duties because stability and economic strength in the country relies on the rule of law. “Our strength as a country and economic growth is linked to the rule of law and justice,” said Dr Shein in Pemba where lawyers marked ‘Zanzibar Law Day.’ He said the rule of law is not simply about allowing sound and fair principles to prevail, but mostly creates an environment for steady and fundamental growth to occur. He thanked the office of the Chief Justice for organising the ‘Law Day’, saying it is important because it is used to increase awareness about laws and regulations which are essential in promoting peace, stability, and development in the country. The president said ordinary people should be helped to understand different laws for them to obey and avoid breaching them along with knowing their rights for peaceful existence in the country. “Lawyers have a special recognition in society because they are responsible for the rule of law. Justice must be delivered according to the law, without surrendering to any improper influences and delivering equal treatment to everybody,” Dr Shein emphasized. He said that to make rule of law possible, no-one should be above the law, and there must be an adequately resourced independent and impartial judiciary who decide cases fairly according to the law. The President said that this year’s theme of the Zanzibar Law Day is “Improvement of public institution is crucial to justice delivery,” aligned to the government efforts in improving the judiciary system in the country, which include construction of a new building for the High Court and a law school at Tunguu area and the purchase of a DNA machine for investigation. He also said that ongoing efforts to provide better social services including water, health, improved farming, infrastructure, tourism and sports among others are indicators of the rule of law, and that leaders should communicate the success to ordinary people as per section 18 (2) of the Zanzibar constitution. During the event held in Pemba, Dr Shein launched the annual law book as lawyers through the Chief Justice Omar Othman Makungu thanked the president for his efforts in improving the judiciary system.