THE Hai District Court yesterday allowed relatives of Ngiloi Ulomi to conduct a burial ceremony of Arusha-based prominent mineral dealer Jubilate Benjamin Ulomi, who died at Aga Khan Nairobi Hospital more than 15 days ago. Such a new development comes after Resident Magistrate Devota Msoffe vacated her injunctive orders, restraining the relatives of the deceased to bury their beloved one until thorough investigation was made by the police and doctors on the cause of the death. The magistrate had ruled in favour of highly contested the dealer’s wife, Zainabu Rashid, who had also sought for more orders to stop such relatives to expose in any way her husband’s properties until the main suit she had filed was determined to its finality. Magistrate Msoffe pointed out that it was true that the respondents and other clan members as well as relatives of Jubilate Ulomi were mourning in Uswaa Mbera from January 15, 2019 and the desired postmortem had been conducted as ordered in the previous ex-parte orders. “For such truth, I don’t see any need of waiting until February 7, 2019, the date fixed for mention of the case. I, therefore, agree with the counsel for the respondents by setting aside an ex-parte order issued on January 22, 2019 of not burying Jubilate Ulomi,” the magistrate ordered. Following the court’s new order, the family members will conduct the burial at their pleasure and at his place of birth and choice of clan members. In the matter, the applicant, who had sought and obtained the ex-parte orders, was Zainabu Rashid, who claims to be the legal wife of the mineral dealer, while the respondents were Onesy Benjamin Ulomi, Werandumi Benjamin Ulomi, Awadi Ulomi and Abdulrasul Ulomi. They were represented by seasoned counsel Joseph Ngiloi from Makoa Attorneys, who was assisted by Florah Munuo. They had submitted that the court had a duty to institute justice and fairness to members of the public and avoid technicalities, which might injure them. They told the court that keeping the dead body was more painful to the respondents because they had blood relationship with their loved one, while the applicant wife had only mothered the children of Jubilate Ulomi. “As we know the cause of death we don’t see any reason why the body should be kept without burial and such a situation has created a lot of tension to mourners and relatives. Moreover, the departed person has no fault to cause the delay of his burial,” the counsel submitted. According to the court’s ruling, the cause of the death of the deceased was attributed to environmental hazard of the working conditions of Mirerani, where he was working. The report indicates Jubilate Ulomi was found to have TB, the result, the advocates submitted, could not link their clients with the death. The deceased body has remained at the mortuary of Bomang’ombe District Hospital for a few days because the alleged wife, following the advice given by Hai District Commissioner (DC), has taken the dispute to court to stop the burial. In his counter affidavit to oppose the case filed in court, one of the relatives, Onesy Ulomi vehemently disputes Zainabu Rashid, who is applicant in the matter to be the legal wife of Jubilate Ulomi and he has put her to strictly prove such a fact. “Jubilate Ulomi was my younger brother and he was not legally married to the applicant to my knowledge,” Ulomi, who is one of the four respondents in the dispute, stated in his counter affidavit. He also stated, “Jubilate Ulomi, who was ex-communicated from his church for having children with different women without following spiritual guidance was reunited to his church after repentance before Rev Chambulila of Good Samaritan Foundation and was declared not to have any legalised marriage.” After issuing the highly contested orders, the court ordered the matter to come for mention on February 7, 2019. In her affidavit to support the application, the applicant states, among other things, that she was the legal wife of Jubilate Ulomi having lived together as husband and wife for 12 years.