PRIVATE sector in the country is devising strategic plans that will make it contribute more to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the sector’s current contribution to GDP was insufficient. TPSF Executive Director, Godfrey Simbeye argued that as the government currently implements flagship projects and creates conducive environment for investment, it is high time the private sector grabbed the opportunity and improved its economic activities. He cited Stiegler’s Gorge and Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) as some of the government projects, which should attract the private sector’s articulate plan to positively utilise them. “Running industries along SGR was one of the opportunities that the private investors could grab because of the fact that the project is there for among others, easing transportation of raw materials,” said Mr Simbeye. He added, “Improvements of investment environments signifies the solid relationship between the government and private sector. It is now time for us in the private sector to asses our contribution to the national economy and come with strategic plans to boast our role.” He hinted that the foundation is set to run zonal meetings between March and May this year, collecting stakeholders’ views on how best and faster the private sector can hugely contribute to the country’s economic growth. The best implementation of the comprehensive action for implementation of the road map and blueprint are among key issues for deliberations in the envisaged TPSF zonal meetings. Mr Simbeye affirmed that the sector will also discuss strategies to encourage companies’ registration, saying the current 150,000 registered companies are not enough to withstand the competition. He said once the agreed plans are well implemented, the sector will ably place Tanzania at a better position in investment attraction. However, he charged that despite remarkable development in improving the investment environment, the government wasn’t speedily improving the Dar es Salaam port as per TPSF recommendations. Mr Simbeye claimed that the situation was worse on the ‘Trading across Borders’ section, despite regular comments and proposals by the private sector.