MEMBERS of public should complain directly to Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) about unsatisfactory services from insurance companies, the regulator has said. TIRA’s Commissioner of Insurance, Dr Baghayo Saqware told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es salaam yesterday that members of the public should complain to TIRA when they run into trouble with their insurance companies or feel they being treated unfairly. They should only follow the right channels and procedures in lodging their complaints, he said. It has come to their notice that some insurance companies were offering unsatisfactory services to citizens and most of the citizens did know which steps to take in seeking help or taking legal action, he said. “Wananchi should be aware and take use of TIRA, the country’s body vested with power of dealing with insurance related issues including complaints. They should use TIRA when they become victims of some companies’ misdeeds,” Dr Saqware said. He called that insurance customers are to follow set procedures which begins by presenting complaints to the company involved in writing, if is not satisfied with response or in case of no response after 30 days, more arbitration is to sought from TIRA. “TIRA will evaluate complaints, take appropriate measures as a regulator and if the customer is not satisfied with the measures taken, he or she can go to the Ombudsman Office which will listen and offer final judgement,” he said. According to Saqware if a customer would still be unsatisfied by the judgement of the Ombudsman Office he or she is allowed to forward the case to the court of law, he said. “Citizens should not give up, they should follow procedures than jumping to the final one which is taking the matter to court of law where things are even more complicated,” he said. He said TIRA had offices in different zones countrywide and in Zanzibar. He said TIRA has other duties of inspecting operations of insurance companies in the country, and supervision of quality services among the players So far, there are 31 registered insurance companies in the country, over 150 insurance brokers, 700 insurance agents and three firms for insurance actuarial according to Saqware.