DEPUTY Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Angela Mabula said yesterday the nation has lost young, hardworking and competent employees who were serving diligently for the country’s development. The deputy minister, leading hundreds of mourners to pay last respects to nine land officers who perished in a road accident on Saturday, said the fallen employees were educated using taxpayers money and their contribution to the country’s development was highly needed. She said the government was coordinating the burial arrangements and that until yesterday at least 96m/- had already been spent. Speaking at CCM Tangani grounds in Ifakara town, she said the bodies have to be transported to various regions and some had already been airlifted to Mafia District. The deceased are Salome Lukosi (24), Shebly Yusuph (30), Glory Mziray (25), Rudaya Mwakalebela (27), Maria Bunyenja (24) and Sylivester Mwakalebela (25). Others are Shela Stambuli (32), Hassan Kayuga (27) and Msafiri Jerald (46). Police statement issued on Sunday said three people sustained injuries in the accident. They are Faraja Andrea (30), Sauda Shabani (27) and Stanslaus Budodi (27). They are hospitalised at St Francis Hospital in Ifakara. According to Morogoro Regional Police Commander (RPC) Wilbroad Mutafungwa, the driver of the ill-fated vehicle Baraka Charles surrendered himself to the police. He was still under interrogation. The vehicle that was involved in the accident, Toyota Land Cruiser Hardtop, STK 9444 is owned by Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA), police said. The departed officials were working under the Land Tenure Support Programme (LTSP) and were in Kilombero District for land surveying and issuance of title deeds. According to the regional police chief, the deceased were coming from Kiberege village where they were issuing traditional land title deeds to the villagers. “The source of the accident was speeding. The driver failed to control the vehicle,” he said, adding that the driver will be arraigned upon investigation completion.