MEDDIE Kagere once again emerged a hero for Simba, after scoring the lone winner against Young Africans in a nail biting Mainland Premier League match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Kagere alias ‘MK 14’ netted the winner in the second half of a highly entertaining Dar es Salaam derby clash. The Rwandese international striker did the same this week against Egyptian giants Al Ahly in CAF Champions League clash at the same venue -- showing great killer instincts in front of the goal Following the victory, Simba reclaimed the third spot on the log with 39 points from 16 matches. Despite the loss, Yanga continued to cling on the top spot of the 20-team league on 58 points from 24 matches. However, the Jangwani Street lads have lost three crucial points in race for the league silverware, meaning, if Simba win all their eight matches in hand, they will post 63 points to topple Yanga. Patrick Aussems charges looked a team in mission from the onset, as they started on a strong front foot, while Yanga sat on their own half absorbing pressure. However, Yanga were a threat on dead ball situations and in the 7th minute, Paul Godfrey received a set piece pass from Ibrahim Ajib but his rasping shot narrowly sailed wide. Yanga threatened again in the 15th minute, when Amissi Tambwe’s header off Ajib’s foul almost hit the target. Simba also came close in the 18th minute, when Pascal Wawa arrived at an Emmanuel Okwi’s corner kick at the far post but the defender delayed to release a shot, as Gadiel Michael came sprawling on the turf to block him at the near post. In the 24th minute, Wawa almost gifted Yanga an easy goal. The Ivorian defender lost possession and Ajib latched on the ball before setting up Heritier Makambo, but the Congolese fierce shot slightly sailed wide. After half an hour mark, Yanga gained confidence and came into the picture, pushing forward frequently and forcing Simba defence to a number of mistakes but striker, Makambo failed to make use of the chances created. In the 36th minute, Okwi’s set piece almost beat goalkeeper, Ramadhani Kabwili but the ball flew inches wide. Yanga will live to rue a clear cut chance to score in the 39th minute. Ajib’s cross in beat keeper Aishi Manula and Makambo with only an empty net to score, he headed well wide. After the break, both sides made changes with Simba calling in Hassan Dilunga for Zambian Clatous Chama, who was slightly off colours yesterday, while Yanga introduced Mrisho Ngasa for Amiss Tambwe probably to inject pace upfront. Immediately after the restart, Simba left wing back Mohammed Hussein cut through defenders and unleashed a shot that could not hit the target. Then, Yanga went close in the 50th minute, when Feisal Salum’s shot flew over the bar It turned up to be an end to end affair as in the 58th minute; Okwi’s fierce shot came off the bar as Yanga survived a real scare. Then after an hour mark, Dilunga’s cross in found Okwi in space but the Ugandan fired wide. Mwinyi Zahera called off skipper Ajib for Mohammed Issa Banka, who however, is still struggling with match fitness. In the 66th minute, Bocco shot was cleared off the line by Abdallah Shaibu. Then in the 72nd minute, Kagere headed in Bocco’s pass for his ninth goal of the campaign. In the 77th minute, Gadiel Michael was replaced by Matheo Antony as Yanga pushed numbers forward in an effort to draw level. In the 84th minute, Kagere drew a challenge from Shaibu outside the box but Okwi wasted from a set piece and a minute later the Ugandan ace was replaced by Muzamiru Yassin. With three minutes to go, Ngasa dipping pass in was flicked by Matheo Antony and Makambo was in space but was timely blocked by Manula. In the 90th minute, Haruna Niyonzima replaced Kagere.