EQUITY investors at the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) have been advised to diversify between high quality equities and coupon treasury securities as the headwinds still persist. According to Zan Securities Limited Market Outlook equity investors are thus counselled to approach this year with caution and optimism since volatility is always present as witnessed last year. “We think investors should approach this year with caution and optimism and they should diversify between high quality equities and high coupon Treasury securities as the headwinds still remain and the volatility is always present as we learned last year,” stated the report. Many changes are however expected this year as the government increases the pace of financing big infrastructure projects and its policies verge more on opening up to the private sector. Moreover, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) is loosening its grip on the monetary control policies to allow banks to operate smoothly. “We think the market will benefit from the improving economy mainly due to the improvement of credit to private sector and increase in government spending, which both will increase company earnings and market liquidity,” stated the report. Tanzania Equities market experienced a hard landing last year after riding high in 2017 with prices and total market turnover declining. During the year under review, banking stocks were hugely affected as Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) put more pressure on earnings. “We believe the all ordeal came on the back of adverse macro conditions such as low aggregate demand and tight liquidity conditions as government cut down its expenditures,” said the report. In the period, equities posted poor returns, investment in fixed income securities slowed down, the Tanzanian Shilling volatility against global currencies increased and returns from alternative investments were a far cry to those of 2017. The equities market was shaken to the core with abysmal returns and low liquidity throughout the year 2018. The total market turnover plunged by 60.01 per cent to 207.53bn/- in the year under review compared to 519bn/- in 2017, the decline that was largely contributed by low liquidity due to adverse macro conditions. The market capitalisation declined by 14.73 per cent to 19.67tri/- compared to 23.07tri/- in 2017 whereas domestic market capitalisation decreased from 10.27tri/- to 9.69tri/- representing 5.64 per cent fall. The Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange all share index (DSEI) fell by 14.81 per cent to 2,041.39 points while the Tanzania share index (TSI) declined by 5.81 per cent to 3,691.36 points.