IN 2017, Tanzania m ade a m inim al advancem ent to elim inate the worst form s of child labour. The governm ent published regulations to define hazardous work for children in several sectors and, for the first tim e, exp licitly prohibited hazardous task s for children in the fishing industry. Despite these initiatives to address child labour, Tanzania is receiving this assessm ent because it continued to im plem ent a policy and practice that delayed advancem ent in elim inating the worst form s of child labour. Since 1984, the governm ent has regulated access to secondary education through the Prim ary School Leaving Exam . Students who do not pass the exam do not have an opportunity to re-tak e the exam , and m ust drop out of public school, preventing them from continuing their education. Students in Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar com plete prim ary education at the average age of 14. C hildren in Z anzibar who do not pass the exam can find them selves both out of form al education but still below the m inim um age for work , which is age 15, leaving such children at increased risk of child labour. Although the governm ent has ex - pressed its intention to phase out the National exam by 2021, it has yet to initiate efforts or m ak e preparations to do so. In 2006 there were m ore than 2.4 m illion children engaged in child labour in Tanzania, of which nearly 600,000 were work - ing in hazardous conditions. Child labour is related to poverty, lack of social protection m easures, a weak education system , the failure of rural diversification program m es and culture. There are existing laws and policies prohibiting child labour and especially its worst form s; Tanzania has adopted international standards and although som e gaps rem ain, there is a robust legislative fram ework defining child labour and providing for the enforcem ent of child labour prohibitions. However, enforcem ent m echanism s rem ain weak . There are also a num ber of governm ental, international and grassroots efforts underway in Tanzania to reduce child labour. New initiatives to com bat child labour in Tanzania should tak e advantage of the ex isting network of organisations work ing in this area to identify opportunities for program m e support and partnership. Children in conflict with the law needs to be given special consideration, but this will req uire m ore focused attention on the entire j ustice system . Concerted efforts need to be undertaken to build capacity of law enforcem ent institutions to im plem ent the Law of the C hild Act.