IN a bid to support and encourage girls to study science subjects in schools, at least six Tanzanian girls will be picked up to represent the country at the International Girls in ICT Day, which is scheduled to take place in early April in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The preparations for selecting the girls and arrangement for the trip to Ethiopia are being carried out by the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) under the sponsorship of the Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF). The Project Coordinator, Mr Daudi Mboma told reporters recently that a total of 248 Form Three girls from public schools countrywide will early next month gather at DIT in Dar es Salaam, University of Dodoma (UDOM) and Mbeya University of Science and Technology (MUST) for screening. He said the participants will be required to present the existing ICT-related problems in their communities and come up with potential permanent solutions. “They will be given topics, including, among others, education, health, environment, science and technology. The first round of competition will provide ten best students from each zone and winners will camp in Dodoma. Later there will be a final competition to get six girls to represent the country,” he said. He reiterated that the competitions aim at encouraging girls to engage in science subjects and let the country have enough experts in various fields. It was also put into consideration that Tanzania is now on higher need of engineers and other experts to support the county in its ambition to build up an industrial economy. Preparations’ Committee Chairperson from UCSAF, Ms Justina Mashiba affirmed that 160m/- has been set aside for the competitions in Tanzania and Ethiopia. She added that UCSAF has been providing ICT facilities to schools and the community at large. She said some of the facilities supplied include computers and internet devices to all schools which produced participants for the International Girls in ICT Day. UCSAF is also organising Innovation Week, which is set to take place in March, in Dar es Salaam where the (2016 and 2017) International Girls in ICT Day participants will have an opportunity to showcase their ICT products.