LEADERSHIP formation, Environmental Conservation and Action for Development (LEAD) Foundation has embarked on a programme on reforestation and beekeeping in Mpwapwa and Kongwa districts in Dodoma Region. The Programme Officer at LEAD Foundation, Mr Njamasi Chiwanga, said in Mpwapwa over the weekend that the goal of the programme was to encourage residents of six villages to protect their environment. “The programme encourages villagers to conduct beekeeping activities as a means of protecting the environment in the areas,” said the official while launching the programme. Mr Chiwanga, pointed out that the environment surrounding Kiboriani mountains, which is a major water source for the two districts, had affected human activities to a considerable extent. He added that mass deforestation of the mountains had resulted in floods, land erosion and degradation, a situation which affected even farming activities in most parts within the two districts. “We have decided to introduce this project as an indirect means of encouraging the farmers to actively play a frontline role in conserving their environment,” he said. Mr Chiwanga observed that as long as beekeeping depended on availability of trees for supporting beehives, the farmers would automatically strive to protect the environment in order to benefit from the programme. “Some 600 households in the six villages will start benefiting from the programme before the programme is extended to other areas,” he said. Speaking shortly after handing over 300 beehives to the beneficiaries, Mpwapwa District Administrative Secretary, Ms Sarah Komba, urged them to form unions in order to get access to loans from financial institutions. Ms Komba commended LEAD Foundation for its great commitment to environmental conservation in the country, saying its activities had helped to restore forests in various parts of the country. Under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Foundation also implements a three- year project dubbed ‘Visiki Hai’ in all districts of Dodoma region. The project targets to make Dodoma green by planting trees