CHAIRMAN of the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam, Michael Luwongo has fully stepped into playing golf, in a move aimed to inspire more veterans to take the sport. Luwongo is a Retired TPDF Brigadier General who, after serving the army for many years, decided to move into the golf, the sport that he developed a passion for while in the military. Lugalo golf course has decided to embark on an exciting new programme to reach out to the golfers in all age categories for them to enjoy the sport. And, to lead by example, Luwongo has started taking golf lessons at the club. Luwongo is training under professional golfer, Geoffrey Leverian. Leverian, who is former national team prolific golfer confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Luwongo, who took charge as club chairman about three years ago, started taking the lessons at the club range over the weekend. “It’s true that Chairman Luwongo is among my new trainees, everybody was waiting for this to happen because he has always been a good fan and very supportive since taking over as chairman,” Leverian said. The coach described Luwongo as fast learner, who will not take long before taking course practice round that will lead to have official handicap to be eligible in the competitions. “He’s so impressive; he has very good golf touch. In just a day in range he was able to hit balls well,” he said, adding that it will take only few days at range for him to master the game before taking further steps to enter practice round. Speaking to this paper, Luwongo said he is delighted to start taking the game and expressed his determination to prosper. Luwongo was appointed Lugalo Chairman in 2016, following sudden demise of former chairman Brigadier General (rtd) Ernest Galinoma, who died on April 17th 2016 at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in Dar es Salaam. Club Captain, Japhet Masai welcomed his chairman, saying they are all delighted to have him in the game. “This is wonderful news to us… I have worked with Luwongo for the past three years and his passion for the sport is remarkable,” he said. Luwongo will be among leaders who have taken on the game, including Lugalo club founder General (rtd) George Waitara, who is also TANAPA Board Chairman, Ambassador Charles Sanga, Ambassador Salehe Tambwe, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue and Tanzania Postal Bank (TPB) Board Chairman, Dr Edmund Mndolwa.