TANZANIA People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club of Dar es Salaam has unveiled its 2019 calendar to be brightened by seven major competitions. The club’s golf captain, Japhet Masai told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that everything is in place and the calendar has been passed by the club’s Chairman Michael Luwongo. He said that the golf events calendar, apart from the monthly mug events that will officially start next month, also have seven big competitions, including national and club level events. “I want to inform all golfers that TPDF Lugalo’s competition calendar for this year has been finalised and Chairman Luwongo has already approved it, hence everybody must train hard as we want to see a brilliant season,” he said. According to Masai, the 2019 is going to be a busy year as there are lots of competitions at the club. He said that the 36-hole Lugalo Open scheduled for 30-31 March 2019, will open the season for the club and golfers from other clubs would be involved. According to Masai, Chairman Trophy which is held annually to honour the club chairman (current Luwongo), will be the second and will be held on July 6th. He said the club has not forgotten events for the junior golfers as also there is Lugalo Junior Open competition on the line. He said the 36-hole competition to engage all junior golfers will be held on 27-28 July 27 at the par 72 course. Lugalo has been a good training ground for juniors due to the presence of a wellorganised junior programme every weekend. The programme targets to produce quality junior golfers who can compete in the top level events. “We have established wonderful young golfers who can now compete at the high level events. Plans are underway to invite junior golfers from other clubs to attend the programme,” he said. Other tournaments are CDF (Chief of Defence Forces) Trophy which is also a 36-hole event. It aims to honour the current chief, General V enance Mabeyo. “The tournament will be staged on September 14 and 15, it will be followed by Dar Open which will be held at the same course on September 21 and 22 Dar Open. Waitara Trophy is the next tournament. It is the penultimate event to be held on November 9 and the last event is Uhuru Cup to be staged on November 30. Masai however said that his club has also prepared to send golfers in other national and international level competitions.