BUMPER harvests of food and cash crops are expected in the forthcoming farming season, thanks to normal and above normal rains during the March-April-May season in many parts of the country. But, Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA) Director General Dr Agnes Kijazi (pictured) has urged agricultural extension officers countrywide to advise farmers to grow crops with short-term maturity, saying the rains will last for a short period. The country’s top meteorologist gave the counsel in Dar es Salaam yesterday while briefing reporters on the National Climatic Forum for Rainfall Season spanning March-April-May, commonly known as ‘Masika’ in Kiswahili. “Weather forecasts indicate that the rains will start falling in the fourth week of February or first week of March and stop in the first and second week of May, this year,” Dr Kijazi told the news conference. She said after the Masika rains, some parts of the country will experience dry spells, imploring weather forecasts’ consumers to closely follow up on regular weather reports, which are issued in a span of five to ten days. “It should be noted that climate change is having an impact on weather systems and there could be variations on weather forecasts…the report users should therefore make close follow ups on TMA issued updates,” Dr Kijazi urged. Despite the climate change and variations, TMA boss was glad that the agency’s forecasts for October-November- December (OND) ‘Vuli’ season were accurate by 80 per cent. “During the season under review some areas received rains late than we had predicted and this was mainly due to changes of temperatures off the coast of Somalia,” she explained. Dr Kijazi noted further that seasonal rains, which started in November last year, are expected to continue through the end of April as earlier predicted. “The rains were predicted to be normal over most areas. However, pockets of below rains are expected over the southern regions and parts of Dodoma and Singida regions,” she explained. In the forthcoming rainfall season, the weather agency predicts incidences of suppressed rainfall over surrounding areas of northern Morogoro and Kigoma (Kibondo). Dr Kijazi was also upbeat that the rains will lead to sufficient pasture and water for livestock keeping which will address recurring farmers and livestock keepers’ conflicts, which had been fueled by limited grazing land. The Masika rainfall season is more significant to the areas over the northeastern highlands and northern coast, including the islands of Unguja and Pemba, Lake Victoria basin and northern parts of Kigoma and Morogoro regions. Dr Kijazi warned however that the heavy rains in some areas may have negative impact on water resources infrastructure as well as in small-scale mining activities. She thus called for safety precautions as excessive water in the soil may trigger landslides and cave-inns. Due to expected heavy rains over most areas, the weather agency advised local government authorities and disaster management to put in place precaution measures for flooding that may damage houses, infrastructure and property, leading to injury and loss of lives