In attempts to curb cheating in mineral export and fuel imports DAYS for under declaration of mineral exports and fuel imports are numbered, thanks to plans to have state-owned corporation conducting all clearing and forwarding functions for the consignments. Effective next Monday, the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Corporation (TASAC) will start enforcing its exclusive mandate to carry out clearance of all imports and exports of minerals as well as mineral concentrates, machineries and equipment. Section 7 (1) (a) of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 14 of 2017, also empowers the corporation to undertake the services for products and/or extracts related to minerals and petroleum, arms and ammunitions, live animals and government trophies. That is, no any other institution other than TASAC shall be allowed to make new declarations to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) for the purpose of clearing and forwarding services for imports and exports of goods cited in the legislation. “All importers, exporters, clearing and forwarding agents, their employees or representatives shall be required to hand over to TASAC all documents for imports and exports of the specified goods,” the corporation said in an advert. It further directed that any person, including shipping agents, ports operators, dry port operators, transporters and other government departments should not facilitate any clearance and forwarding of goods stipulated in the law. “The general public is requested to take note that performing or facilitating any person to perform any function, which has been exclusively mandated to TASAC amounts to commissioning an offence under section 7 (3) of the Act,” warned the newly established corporation in its public notice. Commenting on the new development, the Secretary General of Tanzania Freight Forwarders Association (TAFFA), Mr Tony Swai, commended the move but had some reservations with the public notice. “It should be noted that the legislation was enacted after recommendations by the Special Presidential Committee led by Prof Nehemiah Osoro to which we (Taffa) actively participated in airing our views. We all agreed that minerals mined locally will be subjected to the new legislation. The public notice is however silent on minerals on transit from neighbouring countries, transported through Tanzania,” Mr Swai stated. The TAFFA executive was however hopeful that the matter will be addressed during a meeting to be convened today between TASAC and stakeholders in the shipping industry. “It was initially agreed that exporters and clearing agents should notify the corporation and other agencies be allowed to continue undertaking clearing and forwarding services for minerals and fuel on transit,” he explained. Reached for comments, the Executive Secretary of Tanzania Shipping Agents Association (TASAA), Mr Abel Uronu, declined to comment and referred ‘Daily News’ to the association’s chairperson. TASAC was established under Section 4 of the Tanzania Shipping Agencies Act, Number 4 of 2017, to regulate ports, shipping services, maritime environment in addition to safety and security. The state-owned corporation is also mandated to conduct shipping business in the areas of clearing and forwarding, ship tallying, document control and shipping agency. Enactment of the legislation to establish TASAC was due to among others under-declaration of mineral exports and fuel imports as well as tendencies by ship owners to operate own in-house agencies, contrary to the law. Prior to the new legislation, the then Merchant Shipping Act of 2003 restricted ownership of shipping agents to 51 per cent by Tanzanians but many multinational shipping lines established their own agencies, elbowing out local players from the lucrative industry. The Tanzania Shipping Agencies Bill was tabled in the National Assembly by the then Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Prof Makame Mbarawa, on September 15, 2017. Until the enactment of the new law, all maritime regulatory functions were bestowed under the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA). Before SUMATRA, the functions were under the then National Shipping Agency Corporation (NASACO) before the industry was liberalised to embrace private players.