TANZANIA Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) delighted with World Kabaddi move to appoint one of the East African Community (EAC) countries among three delegates who will oversee forthcoming World Cup Kabaddi 2019. The World Kabaddi, over the weekend, appointed three senior international officials as Technical Delegates for the World Cup Kabaddi 2019, and will be tasked to ensure a smooth running of the competition. According to the press release signed by World Kabaddi President, Ashok Das, the three technical delegates are Malaysia’s M. Rajasegaran, Kenya’s Matthew Mwangi and Iraq’s Basim Aljabry. Rajasegaran is the Technical Chairman of the Malaysia Kabaddi Federation; Mwangi is the president of the Kenya Kabaddi Sports Federation (KKSF), while Aljabry is the Head of International Relations committee of the Iraqi Federation of Kabaddi. TKSA chairman Abdallah Nyoni said in an interview with this paper in the city yesterday that Tanzania is so pleased with the honour given to Mwangi. “This is very good news not only for Kenya and EAC, but for all African representatives at the competition. “This is a massive move for us, Mwangi will be useful, as it will be an ideal platform for him to push our agenda and ideas,” said Nyoni. Nyoni added that for many African countries Kabaddi is still new game, hence efforts are needed to promote it and raise challenges that face it. He said that they have already communicated with Mwangi over the weekend soon after the news. However, Das said that this will be the first major assignment for all three officials, but they have confidence that they would carry out the task with utmost professionalism. The World Cup Kabaddi 2019 is hosted by the Malaysia Kabaddi Federation under the auspices of World Kabaddi in Melaka from April 2-15, 2019. “The three of them would play very crucial role in ensuring the success of this momentous event. It is not going to be an easy task considering the number of confirmed teams,” added Ashok. The World Cup Kabaddi 2019 would be the biggest international event ever held at the national team levels. There are over 40 countries taking part in the men and women’s categories. “The championship will see teams from all five continents taking part in the event that befits the growing stature of the game,” said Das.