KISUTU Resident Magistrate’s Court is today expected to rule in the trial of Chinese Yang Feng Clan and two Tanzanians charged with the 5.4bn/- worth of elephant tusks economic trial. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi is set to deliver the court’s verdict after going through the evidence adduced by the prosecution and defence. During the trial, the prosecution called 11 witnesses while the accused defended themselves. Besides the Chinese—Queen of Ivory—other accused in the trial are Tanzanians Manase Philemon (39) and Salivius Matembo (39). The three accused face charges of leading organised crime and unlawful dealing in government trophies worth 5.4bn/-. It is alleged that between January 1, 2000 and May 22, 2014 in the city, the trio conducted the trophy business through buying and selling 706 pieces of elephant tusks weighing 1,889 kilogrammes and valued at 5,435,865,000/-, the property of the government of Tanzania, without a permit from the director of wildlife. According to the prosecution, within the same period and place, intentionally, Clan organised, managed and financed the criminal racket by collecting, transporting or exporting as well as selling the elephant tusks without having the permit of the director of wildlife or CITES. Within the same period and place, Matembo and Philemon, allegedly assisted and directed the business of collecting, transporting and selling the government trophies with intent to reap benefit and promote objectives of the criminal racket. Philemon is separately charged with escaping from lawful custody. The prosecution told the court that the accused committed the offence on May 21, last year, at Sinza Palestina Hospital in Kinondoni District in the city. It is alleged that the accused escaped from lawful custody of a police officer who was watching him over allegations of dealing in government trophies and leading organised crimes. Well-armed criminals kill elephants and rhinos for their tusks, largely due to increasing demand for ornaments and folk medicines in China. It is reported that most of the tusks smuggled from East Africa end up in Asia. Conservationists have said demand for ivory in China has fuelled poaching. There is an international ban on buying and selling ivory across borders that was implemented in 1989 after the population of elephants dropped from millions in the mid-20th century to about 600,000 by the end of the 1980s. China announced the ban on all ivory trade and processing activities by the end of 2017. Some members of parliament were reported to have said in 2013 that poaching was out of control with an average of 30 elephants being killed for their ivory every day. In August 2011, Tanzanian authorities seized over 1,000 elephant tusks hidden in sacks of dried fish at Zanzibar port and destined for Malaysia. Tanzania’s most notorious elephant poacher nicknamed “The Devil has no mercy”, Boniface Maliango, was sentenced to 12 years in prison in March 2017. Maliango whom the prosecution described as the “King of Ivory” was convicted of illegal possession of 118 pieces of elephant tusks worth over 2bn/- alongside his brother Lucas Maliango, alias Ruksa Mponze, alias Shimie and Abdallah Chaoga, alias Babu. He was arrested in Dar es Salaam in September 2015 after a year-long manhunt as he attempted to smuggle the tusks. It is reported that his crimes were the focus of a Netflix documentary film, The Ivory Game, produced by actor Leonardo DiCaprio. The Elephant Action League, which fights wildlife crimes, is reported to have said that Maliango ran an ivory trafficking network across five African countries—Tanzania, Burundi, Zambia, Mozambique and Kenya. Maliango was accused of supplying ivory to Yang Fenglan, the “Ivory Queen.”