PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has issued a 21 day ultimatum to all alcohol producing factories that haven’t installed the electronic tax stamps (e-tax stamps) to do so or face the law. He also instructed all government and public institutions to register themselves in the Government e-Payment Gateway (GePG) before June this year. The Premier made the directives yesterday during his speech to wind the parliament session in Dodoma City, urging the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to ensure all factories sign into the electronic system by 28th this month. “I’m instructing TRA to ensure all alcohol manufacturers have installed the e-tax by end of this month,” he said, ensuring that the government will continue with efforts to improve revenue collection and meet the intended target. He said that the target will only be met by emphasizing on the use of electronic system in all government’s collection in both local and imported drinks. According to Mr Majaliwa, the new system will enable the government to collect accurate data on every production, hence minimize revenue leakages. He added that the government will continue to implement all the directives that were issued by President John Magufuli during his meeting with mining stakeholders on the 22nd of January this year. “But I would like to urge all small scale miners to cooperate with various government institutions and departments for the greater interest of the LTD642700002sector,” explained the Premier. “Dr Magufuli is doing a very great job on improving social services, so we need to compliment his efforts by ensuring effective revenue collection so that the money can be spent on funding development projects,” added the PM. Expounding further, PM Majaliwa said Dr Magufuli had instructed all ministers and Regional Commissioners (RC’s) to submit their workplace reports indicating how they are going to improve revenue collection. According to him, the increase will enable the country to further reduce dependency on donors in financing development projects. They have so far submitted their proposals and already instructions have been issued to TRA and the Presidents’ Office, Regional Administration and Local Government (PoRALG) for further implementation.