MINERALS Minister Dotto Biteko has discovered another rot in the mining sector, hardly a week after President John Magufuli’s meeting with mineral stakeholders in the country. During the meeting, President Magufuli listened to complaints and tips on the thieving techniques that some dishonest miners use to dupe the government. Minister Biteko, in his impromptu visit to the mineral processing centres at Kizota area in the city here, discovered unfilled forms of processed minerals and operations of unlicensed buyers and mineral processors who deny the government its deserved revenues. The minister linked the irregularities to negligence by his officers and instantly suspended a Minerals Officer, Ashen Daniel to pave way for further investigations. Among the worst acts by the regional mineral office is deliberate or negligent failure to record minerals obtained after processing and consenting their sale to unlicensed buyers, subjecting the government to losses. During his unarranged tour, the minister said the mineral officer intentionally failed to fill in the grammes of the minerals that were produced after processing, an evidence of corruption and thievery. He vowed to use Daniel as an example to other officials, whose conducts aim at stealing from the government, warning that thieving officers in the ministry are not safe because the exercise is continuous. “We have been receiving reports from citizens that the minerals processing centres in the country are deceitful, the worst thing is that the deception is perpetrated by people we entrusted with the mineral weighing…they instead decide not to record the exact weight,” charged the minister. Mr Biteko said he would be conducting such abrupt inspections in all mineral processing centres, aiming at flushing out all thieves and keeping the sector safe. He ordered the minerals committee through the ministry’s permanent secretary to inspect all mineral processing centres and discover how many kilogrammes of carbon is used in processing and the amount of minerals produced. He cautioned miners that he had all reports of their shoddy deals in the processing centres and theft of government’s revenues, warning that stern legal measures will be taken against them. Earlier, when questioned by the minister, Daniel confessed that he did not measure nor record the minerals due to various challenges which he, however, failed to state. The minister ordered Dodoma Mineral Officer, Jona Mwano to submit all reports of mineral inspections conducted within six months to the Commissioner of Minerals for further actions. He ordered the regional mineral officer to submit all his six-month reports, including those of mineral processing and sales by different buyers who were identified to have been operating without licences. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Minerals, Professor Simon Msanjila suspended the officer indefinitely to allow investigations in the fraudulent acts in his office, including failure to do follow ups on buyers without licences. “From today on, I suspend you from work to allow investigations to reveal the truth of the matter,” stated Prof Msanjila. The minister has also abruptly visited one of the middle men who buys and sells minerals at Kizota and uncovered fraud in his records.