MEDDIE Kagere continues to prove his worth of gold, netting twice and John Bocco scored one as Simba crushed Azam FC 3-1 in a closely contested Mainland Premier League match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The well-earned victory continued Simba’s impressive charge in their title defence campaign. Simba have posted 45 points from 18 outings, cutting gap with second placed Azam to five points and 16 points below league leaders Young Africans. However, both Yanga and Azam have played 25 matches, meaning that Simba have seven matches in hand. It was a slow start to the game as both teams looked cautious but Simba slightly picked momentum. Just in the 4th minute playmaker Clatous Chama 30 metres’ screamer came off goalkeeper, Razak Abalora’s hands and almost crossed the line but the Ghanaian goalie stretched to pull it out. However, before the dust settled Kagere celebrated his return to the starting XI by netting the opener. He was lurking in the area and pounced on to finish with a perfect header a diagonal shot by skipper, Bocco that had come off the right bar. Kagere was not included in the squad that registered a 3-0 win over African Lyon at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Kaluta Stadium in Arusha last Tuesday. After the goal, Azam tried to fight back in search for an equaliser and ought to have levelled the matter but striker Obrey Chirwa missed a clear chance after he was set by Nicolas Wadada. His shot went off target. In the 14th minute, Kagere predatorily continued as he opened space for himself on the left and Emmanuel Okwi set him up but the former’s shot came off the keeper’s frame and bounced on the right bar. Azam stepped up the gear and won the midfield battle, where Jonas Mkude picked an injury and looked a pale shadow of himself, defender Paul Bukaba also looked unsettled and Azam were exploiting the weaknesses as Chirwa was stretching the defender to the limit. In the 24th and 33rd minutes respectively, Azam missed another chances to level the matter through Chirwa, who had nicely turned inside the box but his shot went inches wide. Then, in the 33rd minute, Ramadhan Singano was denied a goal after he received Salum Aboubakar back pass but his shot hit the post. Against the run of play, Simba netted the second in the 38th minute, with Bocco raising above defenders to nod home a perfect cross in by Zana Coulibaly. Azam also threatened in the 41st minute, when Joseph Mahundi’s screamer narrowly missed the target. A slick display by Simba a minute before the interval almost produced the second, when impressive Coulibaly set up Okwi and the Ugandan striker tricked Bruce Kangwa to take a clever turn and unleashed a fierce shot that was parried off by keeper for corner kick. In the second stanza, Azam came stronger targeting to level the matter. Coach Hans van der Pluijm made double substitution by introducing Donald Ngoma and Enock Atta Agyei for Singano and Tafadzwa Kutinyu, before introducing midfielder, Frank Domayo for Mahundi. However, it was a bit of physical and fire skirmished game in the second half. Aggrey Morris seemed to have stamped on Kagere but it went unnoticed where there was also full contact rugby like display between Chirwa and Bukaba. Central defender Pascal Wawa also made a number of nasty tackles. Kagere made the game safe in the 77th minute with the third goal and his brace of the day, which was his 11th of the campaign. After going close several times, Kagere wriggled through Bruce Kangwa and slotted home from a close range after being set clear by Chama inside the box. The goal came few minutes after Okwi was stretched out of the pitch after colliding with Nicholas Wadada in the 72nd minute and replaced by Muzamir Yassin. Earlier on Hassan Dilunga replaced Bocco. Azam pulled one back in the 82nd minute through Domayo, whose brilliant shot at the edge of the box beat keeper Aishi Manula. Ngoma turned around Mohammed Hussein and crossed in for Domayo to rifle home, hitting to top nets