IN efforts to ensure Local Government Authorities (LGAs) reduce dependence on central government, 15 Strategic Revenue Generation Projects (SRGPs) worth over 137bn/- have been signed between the government and 12 District Executive Directors (DEDs). The projects include modern markets, cashew nut processing plant, development of Oysterbay Beach, construction of modern bus stands and parking lots for lories and buses, among others. The signed projects will be implemented in Kinondoni, Kigamboni, Iringa, Biharamulo, Hanang, Tarime, Ilemela, Bagamoyo, Kibaha, and Kisarawe councils as well as Tanga and Mwanza city councils. The agreements for implementation of SRGP were signed between the DEDs and Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Dotto James who doubles as Paymaster General. Speaking prior to the agreement signing, the Commissioner for Budget, Ms Mary Maganga said this is the second phase of the project, hinting that during the first phase, 22 strategic projects valued at 131bn/- were implemented in 17 district councils. “In total, after signing the agreements today we will have 37 projects amounting to 268bn/-,’’ she added. According to her, the first phase was launched in the 2017/2018 fiscal year where implementation contracts were sealed between the Paymaster General and District Councils. Ms Maganga further insisted that the Budget Department through the Regional Budget Supervision Department in collaboration with the national team in charge of analysing the strategic projects will ensure that the 15 projects are well supervised and implemented according to the agreements. The Treasury PS said if properly executed, the projects will help to increase revenues in the district councils and eventually facilitate provision of social services to wananchi. “I want to reiterate that the money we will disburse to your district councils should be used efficiently on the envisaged projects,’’ he said, warning accounting officers in the district councils that appropriate legal measures will be instituted against all the fund embezzlers. He said the ministry scrutinised all the 111 project proposals that were submitted by 67 district councils prior to approving only 15 projects from 12 councils. Mr James insisted on compliance to the signed implementation agreements, asking the district authorities to increase pace and ensure all the projects are accomplished as per the contracts. He asked the authorities to immediately prepare action plans and cash flow documents upon returning to their offices from Dodoma. “We have the money already… all we are waiting is your action plans and cash flow documents,’’ noted Mr James.