THE government yesterday denounced people bent on using individual criminal incidents to tarnish the image of peaceful Tanzania abroad. The Government Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbasi, however, stated that the state is concerned with the safety of every citizen and will never tolerate such crimes. Speaking to journalists here, Dr Abbasi showed firm stance against individuals who travel abroad, complaining and propagating information that paints bad picture of Tanzania as far as peace is concerned. His statement comes following a question from one of the members of the press who sought the government’s position on Mr Tundu Lissu (Member of Parliament for Singida East-CHADEMA) who has been appearing on foreign media, associating his gun attack, over one year ago, to his political activities in the country. Mr Lissu, who has been in Belgium for treatment for over a year now, has repeatedly claimed during interviews on British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) and Deutsche Welle (DW) that there was serious violation of human rights and freedom of speech in the country. “These are some of rare incidents that as the country we can’t accept… and people should not use them as general picture of the country,” Dr Abbasi argued, adding: “I even had my relative shot dead, this is just a criminal incident like others…should I also travel outside the country to complain?” He insisted that Tanzania remains peaceful and its people are united. Last week, Tanzanian Embassy in Germany faulted what it termed as ‘unsubstantiated’ accusations by Mr Lissu during an interview on DW News Africa. Tanzanian Ambassador to Germany Dr Abdallah Possi said it was very inopportune for opposition legislator who is still on treatment to tour the world to propagate serious allegations against his own country. Dr Possi reacted to the allegations, saying Lissu’s attack that occurred in September 2017 was unfortunate and that such events are rare in Tanzania and may happen in any country. Dr Abbasi explained that the country has continued to earn respect and countries as far as international relations was concerned as well as good leadership of President John Magufuli. With good leadership of Dr Magufuli, the country has continued to economically prosper, with data indicating that the country has done well in economic growth among African countries with economic growth rate of 7.1 per cent. Dr Abbasi expressed prospects of the country’s high economic growth this year, thanks to ongoing implementation of several development projects like construction of Standard Gauge Railway and various road projects countrywide.