THE provision of interventional radiology services at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) has drastically reduced the cost of seeking overseas treatment by over 90 per cent. Health experts at the national health facility said the government’s commitment to investing in modern equipment and training of experts through collaboration with some hospitals abroad had facilitated the provision of radiology services at MNH. According to experts, interventional radiology is a medical speciality, which provides minimally invasive image guided diagnosis and treatment. It involves the use of X-ray, MRI, CT-scan and ultrasound in treating a variety of health conditions or taking samples for investigation. “Since these services were introduced at the end of 2017, a total of 220 patients have been treated most of them being treated on dental hemangioma and lymphangioma,” said Dr Flora Lwakatare, Head of Radiology Department at MNH. According to National Centre for Biotechnology Information, US National Library of Medicine, lymphangiomas are rare congenital benign lesions occurring mainly in the head, neck and oral cavity. They consist in localised centres of abnormal development of the lymphatic system. Dr Lwakatare noted that the provision of the services had been successfully implemented because they had managed to save millions of shillings for patients, who were seeking the services abroad especially those with non-cancerous dental tumours. “Patients with non-cancerous dental tumours can now be treated for only 2m/- compared to 96m/- paid by a patient upon completion of retreatment abroad, which was done in phases. Dr Lwakatare detailed that MNH in collaboration with radiology experts, technologists and nurses from Yale, Emory and Dartmouth universities in the US and Australia had continued to providing radiology services and training to Tanzanian experts so that they could provide the services by themselves. This is a continuation of the programme, which started in October to November last year. The services and training for this time started on February 4 and are expected to be concluded on March 9 this year. She said radiology experts from US and Australia institutions, who had been in the country for almost two weeks in collaboration with local experts, provided the services to 40 patients during an interventional radiology camp held at Mloganzila Medical Centre. “We expect to reach 50 patients at the end of our camp.” She noted that various services were offered during the camp, including taking samples from patients, which could not be easily accessed without major operations, draining of the obstructed bile duct system (percutaneous trans hepatic biliary drainage), nephrostomy tube placement and abscesses drainage. Dr Lwakatare said there were a number of advantages associated with interventional radiology, noting that through the procedures, a patient did not need to undergo a major operation and it was cost-effective.