THE High Court of Tanzania in Dar es Salaam has given the Attorney General (AG) two weeks to respond to a petition by ACT-Wazalendo leader Zitto Kabwe, challenging Parliamentary powers of interrogating the Controller and Auditor General (CAG), Prof Mussa Assad over his remarks he made against the legislature, while overseas. A panel composed of Judges; Firmin Matogolo, Dr Benhajj Masoud and Elinaza Luvanda directed the AG, when the case was set for mention yesterday to file the petition’s reply by February 13, 2019 and ordered the hearing of the matter to start two days after, that is, February 15, 2019. Before granting such order, Ms Fatma Karume, who is representing Mr Zitto in court, sought leave of the court to abandon the first prayer under which his client was seeking orders to stop the Parliament to grill the CAG for describing the legislature as weak. The counsel said such a prayer had already been overtaken by the event as already the CAG had appeared before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee, where he was questioned for almost three hours. In response to the request, Principal State Attorney Alicia Mbuya, for the AG, opposed to the line of arguments presented. She was of the position that the petitioner was required to withdraw the whole petition and re-file it. However, in their ruling, the judges agreed with the position preferred by the counsel. In the petition, Mr Zitto requests the court to provide proper interpretation of the constitutional immunity of the CAG visa- vis the interpretation of the Duties and Enforcement Act allowing the Parliament to summon the CAG. The source of the matter originated from the remarks the CAG made, while in overseas that “the Parliament is weak” having being quoted by one of the foreign radio stations. Aggrieved by the statement, Speaker of the National Assembly Job Ndugai convened a press conference in Dodoma and launched a scathing attack on the CAG, demanding him to appear before the Parliamentary Committee on January 21, 2019, for interrogation to justify his statement. Mr Ndugai told a full packed press conference that after subjecting the CAG to intensive grilling, the committee would advise him on the matter, adding that the House had been denigrated by the statement made by the duo in separate occasions. “We are deeply saddened by CAG’s statement, while overseas, where he was supposed to defend the country’s image. It should be noted that we, as Parliament are ready for criticisms, but not defamation,” said the Speaker. According to Mr Ndugai, the CAG was responding to a question posed by a presenter of a US-based radio station, where he categorically stated that although his office was submitting audit reports after doing its tremendous job, the august House was not effectively working on the reports as required by the law. “His (the CAG) response to the radio presenter that if Parliament is not working effectively on the reports can only be termed as the Parliament’s weakness,” observed Mr Ndugai, adding that the CAG office was responsible for advising the Parliament on appropriate steps to take. Mr Ndugai pointed out that lawmakers discharged their duties effectively in advising the government, saying officers from the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT), which Prof Assad heads, have unrestricted access to oversight Parliamentary Committees. “NAOT officers are sub-officials of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Local Authorities’ Accounts Committee (LAAC), which receive and examine CAG reports. The officers are the ones, who advise the committees on what Parliament can do,” he said.