MAHENGE Resources Limited has partnered with Ulanga District and pledged funding of 16m/-to support upgrading of school buildings and infrastructure in the district. Speaking during the handing over of funds, Ulanga District Commissioner (DC), Ngollo Malenya said the company had been encouraging hard working and supporting various development projects in the district. The DC said Mahenge Resource Limited has consistently contributed to the growth of her district. She said: “I believe that the unity existing between our district and the company will lead to a brighter and beneficial future for all parties involved.” She further said it was impressive, when sound investors saw the importance and need to contribute to communities surrounding them. Mahenge Resources Vice President Corporate Hekima Raymond said: “Investing in the future of our nation is what Mahenge Resources does. Positive investments in the future of people, who are part of our community, is absolutely consistent with our values and our social and community responsibility programme.” “The volume of funds advanced accounts for 18 per cent of the total funding of the school buildings upgrade programme. This is the company’s significant contribution before we commence mining activities and before commercial production. As we are still in a mine licensing process and soliciting funds to construct the mine, we will fully comply with a community development and resettlement action plan to further benefit the community,” he said. He added: “We are working with the government to secure a work permit and operating licenses so that we can advance the project and further support our community.” He added that the company took the corporate social responsibility programme seriously and actively contributed to the community by providing food for primary school pupils in some rural schools to overcome absenteeism. The company also provides food for some secondary school students, whose homes are far away from school to overcome absenteeism and teenage pregnancy. Moreover, the company gave 100 per cent scholarship to 100 needy secondary school students to ensure their dreams were fulfilled. It supports availability of clean water to some disadvantaged schools to ensure students and teachers lived healthy. It funds the construction of teachers’ houses especially, where there is a scarcity of teachers due to lack of houses as well as funding the construction of classrooms. The company also funds the renovation of laboratories in secondary schools as a way of creating an enabling learning environment. Mr Raymond said the total value of all commitments, included those listed exceeded 100m/-so far. Mahenge Resources is the 100-per cent owner of Mahenge Graphite Project located in Tanzania. The project completed a definitive feasibility study in October 2018 and filed an application for Mining Licence in November, last year.