VICE-President Samia Suluhu Hassan has commended Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) for supporting smallholder farmers in addressing challenges that impede their productivity. Ms Samia made the remark while handing over a dummy cheque of 1.285bn/- loan issued by TADB to seven agricultural marketing co-operative societies (AMCOS) dealing with sunflower production in Singida. Speaking at the handover ceremony in Itigi Township, Manyoni District, the Vice- President appealed to the loan beneficiaries to utilise the fund that aimed to support edible oil production in the country to increase productivity and curb cooking oil shortage in the country. She directed Singida Cooperatives Deputy Registrar to make closer follow up on the loan to ensure that it’s used to the intended purposes and its repayment is made in due time to enable other smallholder farmers to benefit from TADB’s concessional loans. “I ask you to use the loan according to the terms entered and make timely repayment to enable other farmers in the country to get the loans to boost agricultural production in the country,” she added. Singida Regional Commissioner Dr Rehema Nchimbi said the issued loans will facilitate availability of raw materials for 144 processing industries, which are currently available in the region. “We are thankful to TADB for issuing this loan to these seven AMCOS that will increase productivity of sunflower in the region and ultimately contribute to availability of our processors’ raw materials,” she said. TADB representative Augustino Chacha said that during the 2018/2019 farming season, the bank has approved 3.5bn/- for Singida Region alone, with the 1.285bn/- allocated to 458 farmers under seven AMCOS and remaining 2.2bn/- for the construction of the Sunflower Factory that will be built in Manyoni District. “We acknowledge sunflower as one of the most strategic crops for the national economy and especially for the highly productive regions, including Singida,” he said. He added that the Sunflower has a great opportunity to integrate the nation into foreign currency and is also a source of employment for over 300,000 people,” he added. Mr Chacha said the bank’s strategy is to continue helping farmers to increase the quality of sunflower production as well as help domestic industries to get raw materials easily. One of the loan beneficiaries who is also the Vice- Chairman of Singida Farmers’ Association Yahya Ramadhan, said the coming of TADB has renewed hopes and enthusiasm among sunflower farmers in Singida.