TANZANIA Cigarette Company (TCC Plc) has been able to implement the Kaizen principle of continuous improvement by almost 100 per cent as employees continue to master and implement the practice. Speaking in Dar es Salaam, the TCC Primary Manager, Phillip DeGaulle said the principle has proven to be successful in TCC and many other similar factories worldwide that are a subsidiary of JTI, a leading international tobacco company. “Kaizen is a Japanese word meaning change for good and this change is step by step so as among other things, improve efficiency at workplace and at TCC this has been implemented successfully as all employees are well sensitized about the principle,” he said. According to Phillip, some TCC employees have been undergoing various trainings in Japan and have since become experts in implementing and offering training on execution of the Kaizen principle within and out of TCC. “Recently, TCC was among participants at a seminar that was organised by the National Institute for Productivity (NIP) which is under the Prime Minister’s Office in collaboration with the Japan Productivity Centre (JPC) to discuss on how best to implement the 5S and Kaizen in private and public institutions,” he said. He added that during the seminar they interacted and shared experiences with colleagues from other institutions who had been undergoing training on the Kaizen principle in Japan under a pilot study coordinated by JPC and NIP. He said at TCC the Kaizen principle has helped employees in increasing efficiency and cutting out unnecessary costs. “All employees are by now aware about this principle and are implementing it to the letter,” he said. “The best practices of the Kaizen principle include focusing on the process, engaging staff in decision making, improving step by step, making it better and eliminating waste in all forms, said the Kaizen expert. According to Phillip even other sectors that are not involved in manufacturing and processing can comfortably adopt the Kaizen principle in conducting their businesses more efficiently and profitably. “This, if properly implemented will improve customers trust and also ensures that businesses and institutions are run efficiently minimising losses and unnecessary expenditure,” he said. He further noted Kaizen is well-known for its characteristics and one of them is finding the root cause of mistakes made and correcting them. “Kaizen focuses on incremental improvements rather than exact solutions to problems. The focus on small improvements in Kaizen makes it easier to implement,” he said.