THE registration of the Kilimanjaro Marathon 2019 comes to the final week before the athletes lock horn for the titles in full and half marathon on March 3 this year. In a statement issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the event’s organiSers have reminded participants that registration is purely online and they should use the remaining time to finalise all processes so as to avoid missing the opportunity after registration is closed. The initial deadline was February 7, 2018, but the organisers extended it to February 16, 2019 so as to give more participants a chance to register. “We have less than a week now before registration period closes down. We have decided to extend the deadline to ensure all those interested are accommodated but we also want to advise that if the entries run out before this date, we shall have to close as there will be no additional entries,” said the statement in part. According to the statement, registered participants will be able to collect their race numbers and running shirts before the event in Dar es Salaam, Arusha and Moshi. According to the organisers, the exercise will happen in Dar es Salaam on the 23rd and 24th February between 1pm – 7pm at Mlimani City Mall, on the 25th and 26th February between 2pm – 8pm in Arusha at the Kibo Palace Hotel and on the 27th February, [10am – 5pm] and 28th February [ 10am – 8pm] in Moshi at Keys Hotel. There will be, according to the organisers, manual registration for the Grand Malt 5km Fun Run on the same dates and locations as the number collection as noted above. “We are also appealing to Moshi and Arusha residents to adhere to these dates as there will be no physical registration in Moshi this time around. Most of them tend to register late, we are calling on them to register online on time,” said the organisers’ statement. For the Kilimanjaro Premium Lager 42km the maximum entries are 7500, for the Tigo 21Km Half Marathon the maximum entries are 5500 and for Grand Malt 5Km Fun Run the maximum entries are 5000. “We are calling on all prospective runners to register in good time as the entries sold out before the 2018 event,” they stressed. There is no guarantee that if you are late, there will be space for you in the event you want to enter,” said the statement. Sponsors for this year’s event include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager 42km, Tigo 21km Half Marathon, Grand Malt 5km Fun Run and water table sponsors and partners KK Security, Keys Hotel, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, AAR, Kibo Palace, Barclays Bank, Precision Air and CMC Automobiles for staying committed to the event and making it bigger.