SUGAR producers were yesterday banned from importing the commodity and instead told to devise strategies to boost production to meet the country’s demand. Agriculture Minister Japhet Hasunga said that the government will no longer issue sugar import permits to domestic manufacturers, maintaining that new arrangements will be worked out to bridge the demand-supply gap. Mr Hasunga announced the ban at the official opening of the private sector stakeholders’ meeting for experience sharing and view collection on enhancement of cooperation in execution of the Agricultural Sector Development Plan II (ASDP). The minister said should the sugar millers in the country continue to import the commodity, they will hardly devise strategies to increase production because “imported sugar is more profitable.” He queried: “If domestic manufacturers continue being issued with sugar import permits, will they really work out plans to increase production… this is indeed unacceptable.” Mr Hasunga hinted that the national sugar demand stands at 670,000 tonnes, annually against the country’s production capacity of about 320,000 tonnes. He implored domestic producers to come up with effective strategies to bridge the gap, saying the country is highly endowed with fertile land. “If there are importers here planning to apply for sugar import permits after this meeting, forget about that…I’m now interested in enhancing domestic sugar production to curb the commodity shortage,” insisted the minister. He said he was determined to increase production in the next three years to curb the commodity imports, “This will be possible through increased sugarcane cultivation and opening doors to investors to invest in sugar factories.” Mr Hasunga ruled out any possibility of issuing sugar import permits to manufacturers whom he said were capable of producing sufficient sugar to meet the market demand. He said the government spends a lot of money to import the sweetener, hinting that over 400bn/- was being spent annually to import cooking oil notwithstanding the huge potentials that the country has in cultivation of various crops as raw materials. “Tanzania is among the countries highly endowed with fertile land and rivers but unfortunately people continue to rely on rain-fed agriculture,” he said. He challenged the private sector to ensure that the country produces sufficient crops for use as raw materials in the country’s factories. Early this month, the Parliamentary Committee on Industry, Trade and Environment faulted the entire process of issuing sugar import permits, charging that the licences were provided without considering sugar deficit at the particular time. The Committee Chairman, Mr Suleiman Saddiq said the system has been providing loopholes for dishonest traders who deliberately curtail production to import more. The committee advised the government to evaluate production capacity of local manufacturers and deficit, arguing that reduced production affects employment. President John Magufuli banned sugar imports in February 2016 to protect local producers. He said the decision to ban sugar imports was based on grounds that some few government officials had been abusing their powers by issuing documents for importation of sugar on their own selfish interests. The government, in May last year, lifted the ban on sugar import to end the commodity deficit in the country and stabilise the commodity price.