THE banking sector performed well last year with most banks posting impressive growth figures. However that seems to be counting for nothing in the stock market so far as their share prices faltered or traded flat. Share prices for Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) listed banks remained unchanged and for one major bank had dropped last month and had not recovered until yesterday. NMB and CRDB Bank, the two largest banks in terms of profitability and assets recorded significant profit growth last year compared to 2017 and managed to lower non-profit loans. However the performance had until yesterday failed to stimulate share price change at the stock market. NMB made a net profit of 106bn/-last year up from 93.4bn/-of 2017 while CRDB Bank posted 70bn/-last year compared to 30.8bn/-in the previous year. NMB stock trade flat at 2,340/-since January while CRDB share price dropped from 150/-at beginning of the year to 135/-yesterday in what suggests that stock investors are still not interested with bank stocks or may still holding decisions to invest. On the other hand, share prices for other banks listed on the main and alternative markets have traded flat since January. On other hand small banks most listed on Enterprise Growth Market (EGM) have posted losses last year but still share are stagnated some for more than six months. Maendeleo Bank net profit shrunk to 612m/-last year from 1.35bn/-of previous year while NPLs climbed slightly to 5.0 per cent from 4.3per cent. Mwalimu Commercial Bank posted pretax loss of 5.37bn/- from 4.06bn/- of previous year. Mkombozi Commercial Bank pretax has posted loss of 1.85bn/-from a profit of 869m/-in 2017 but cut down NPLs ratio to 7 per cent from 8 per cent. Share price of Maendeleo stuck at 490/-, Mwalimu 500/-, and Mkombozi 800/- since January. Orbit Securities Director of Operations, Juventus Simon, said the situation was due a combination of a number of factors including challenges to contain non-performing loans. Nonannouncement of dividends, business slowdown in the first quarter of the year and low participation of foreign investors at the market. “The share prices have failed to swing either way due to some challenges facing the banking sector in the last two years including high NPLs (nonperforming loans) and, instability. “Thus investors are making deep analysis on banking sector before making their next move,” Mr Simon said. He also said investors are awaiting dividend announcement that are expected around next month and this may drive north share prices. “[But] there are still accumulations of share supply that started to be seen between last October and November. This had brought stocks glut to stagnate prices for sometimes now,” he said. “On top of that business slowness in first quarter plus impact of low participation of foreign investors extends effects on share price movement.” Zan Securities Chief Operating Officer (CEO), Raphael Masumbuko said price will start picking up when investors forecasting handsome dividend ahead. “We [Zan Securities] are anticipating the share price to rally as news of remarkable results filter further to investors…I can’t predict the price but the rally is imminent,” Mr Masumbuko said. CRDB dividend paid last year was 5/-in 2017 which was almost half from 10/- paid in the previous year while NMB paid 64/-in 2017 down from 104 in 2016. Mr Masumbuko said the largest lenders impressive performance showed the signs that banking sector are walking out of the wood. The low share price was mainly caused by investors fear of poor performance the banks experienced in 2016 and 2017 to elevate to last year thus started to sell their share to avert some losses in advance. But, “the lenders notable performance started to rejuvenate investors’ confidence of possible handsome dividend,” Mr Masumbuko said.