THE Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism and the Director for Public Prosecutions (DPP) have commended the conviction of ‘Queen of Ivory’ - Chinese Yang Feng Clan and two others after they were found guilty of illegal dealing in 860 elephant tusks worth 13bn/-, saying it is a move towards the elimination of poaching in the country. Natural Resources and Tourism Minister, Dr Hamis Kigwangalla, wrote on his twitter account saying, “the conviction of the Chinese ‘Queen of Ivory’ is a huge success attained by our government and is a message to all that poaching no longer pays.” He went on tweeting, “I congratulate our team for this wellhandled investigation and case. I believe Shetani (Satan) and the rest will follow suit.” He assured Tanzanians that poaching activities would end by 2022. “What is left is for wood and wild meat. We will also stop it. Today when you find an elephant dead, you’ll find it with its tusks, no one takes them,” the minister said. For his part, DPP Biswalo Mganga also said it was obvious that the judgment delivered by the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday had played an important role in strengthening the struggle and ensure such crimes were purged. “In this context, we must also remind ourselves that the fight against poaching and illegal trade of elephant tusks is a sensitive issue that requires collective efforts of all stakeholders in all sectors of the economy in particular the entire legal fraternity,” the DPP said. “It is clear that this judgment is a resounding victory for partisans wishing to protect our natural resources, considering that for a long time poaching has been going on with the financiers of rackets and networks continuing with their criminal activities without being interrupted,” he said For a long time, he said, such illegal activaties had caused huge losses to the government by depleting natural resources and eventually making few individuals, like the accused, who had been convicted, to continue benefiting alone through poaching and illegal trade of the ivory. Mr Seif Abdulsattar Seif thanked all stakeholders involved in holding and arraigning the ‘Queen of Ivory’ in connection with her illegal business. He said the court ruling was a great step in helping the sector of tourism and other sectors of the economy, hoping that Tanzania would continue containing illegal trade. However, there were some other commentators who called for review of the law against poaching and illegal ivory trade practices with a view to making the punishment tougher. They said 15 years’ imprisonment, as maximum sentence for convicted offenders was not enough. On February 19, 2019, the Chinese national was convicted of the offences alongside Tanzanians Manase Philemon and Salivius Matembo and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment, with the prosecution presenting evidence showing that 430 elephants linked in the case against them were killed. Kisutu Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi also sentenced each of the trio, including either paying a fine of two times the market value of the elephant tusks or going to jail to two years in default of paying for unlawful dealing in the trophies. In addition to the custodian sentences, the magistrate also ordered confiscation to the government property of a farm owned by the Chinese national in Mheza, Tanga City, having been proved by the prosecution that it was used to hide the elephant tusks for illegal export outside the country. The magistrate convicted the accused of three offences after being satisfied by the evidence produced by 11 prosecution witnesses, led by Principal State Attorney Faraja Nchimbi and Paul Kadushi, as well as State Attorneys Wankyo Simon and Salim Msemo. Between January 1, 2000 and May 22, 2014 in the city, intentionally, Clan organised, managed and financed the criminal racket by buying, collecting, transporting and selling 860 pieces of elephant tusks valued at $6,450,000 (about 13,932,000,000/-) without permit from the wildlife director. Within the same period in Dar es Salaam, Matembo and Philemon, furnished assistance and directions in the conduct of business of collecting, transporting and selling the government trophies with intent to reap benefit, promote and further the objective of criminal racket. The conviction of the ‘Queen of Ivory’ of the offence comes hardly two years since Tanzania’s most notorious elephant poacher nicknamed “The Devil has no mercy”, Boniface Maliango, was sentenced to 12 years in prison in March 2017. Maliango, whom the prosecution described as ‘King of Ivory’ was convicted of illegal possession of 118 pieces elephant tusks worth over 2bn/- alongside his brother Lucas Maliango, alias Ruksa Mponze, alias Shimie and Abdallah Chaoga, alias Babu. He was arrested in Dar es Salaam in September 2015 after a one year-manhunt, while attempting to smuggle the tusks. It is reported that his crimes were the focus of a Netflix documentary film, The Ivory Game, produced by actor Leonardo Di- Caprio. The Elephant Action League, which fights against wildlife crime, is reported to have said that Maliango ran an ivory trafficking network across five African countries, notably Tanzania, Burundi, Zambia, Mozambique and southern Kenya