YOUNG Africans will miss the service of their leading scorer, Congolese Herieter Makambo, when they face JKT Tanzania at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga today. Yanga will be looking to reinvigorate their premier league title campaign after dropping seven points in their last three matches. However, Yanga still sit top of the standings on 55 points from 22 outings, seven points ahead of the closest challengers, Azam who have played 21 matches so far. They are also massive 19 points ahead of traditional rivals and defending champions Simba, although the Msimbazi Reds have seven matches in hand and should they win all, they will topple Yanga at the league summit. Mwinyi Zahera charges succumbed to their first defeat in the league this season with a 1-0 loss at the hands of Stand United at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga on January 19th this year. They later dropped two points following 1-1 draw against Coastal Union at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga last Sunday, slowing down their title race campaign. Yanga hit another hurdle and dropped two crucial points in the race for the league title, after being held to a barren draw by Singida United at the Namfua Stadium in Singida last Wednesday. Going into today’s match Yanga will have to do without Makambo, who has netted 11 goals in the league campaign so far. The Congolese striker will be out of the clash today because he is serving a match ban for accumulating three yellow cards. However, good news for Yanga is that Burundian hit man, Amissi Tambwe, who missed the previous game due to injury, has been declared fit and available for selection in the starting lineup today. Yanga will also have another boost following the return of gifted midfielder, Mohamed Issa ‘Banka’ who completed 14 month ban for doping charges. He is expected to be back in action and this will be the first he will be serving Yanga, since joining the club from Mtibwa Sugar last season. Coach Zahera has predicted a tough encounter as both sides will be eager to snatch maximum three points. Yanga will be seeking to restore their winning formula, while hosts JKT Tanzania will be targeting to maintain their winning streak after their previous 3-1 victory over Biashara United of Mara. JKT Tanzania will also be looking for a revenge of 3-0 punishment they suffered against Yanga in the league first round. Yanga goals were netted by Makambo, Mrisho Ngasa and skipper Ibrahim Ajib. Currently, JKT Tanzania are placed seventh on the log with 32 points from 25 outings. The league will continue tomorrow with KMC hosting Alliance FC at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, while second placed Azam FC will be away at the Samora Stadium in Iringa to face fourth placed Lipuli FC in another encounter billed to be thrilling.