FIFTEEN out of the 19 bodies of people killed in a road accident on Senjele Hill in Mbozi District, Songwe Region, on Thursday have been identified. Songwe Regional Commissioner (RC) Brig-Gen (retired) Nicodemus Mwangela said among those killed 15 were men and four women. He added that investigation was still going on to establish the cause of the fatal accident. Earlier reports had it that the 15 people died after a lorry travelling to Mbeya from Tunduma boarder had a brake failure and veered off the other side of the road and crashed with a passenger mini-bus, which was travelling to Tunduma from Mbeya in Nanyala. The RC said they leant about the accident on Thursday at about 9pm and some regional and district leaders rushed to the scene without delay. He said after arriving at the scene, the police were proceeding with a rescue operation trying to rescue three people, who were seriously injured. The bodies of those killed were taken to Vwawa Designated Hospital, while the two injured ones were taken to Ifisi Hospital, but died later. He said 17 passengers died on the spot after the lorry failed to brake and veered off the other side of the road and crashed with the passenger mini-bus. Following the tragic accident, President John Magufuli yesterday sent his condolences to 19 families of the road accident victims. “I am conveying my heartfelt condolences to the families that have lost their close relatives and friends. May the souls of the departed rest in peace,” President Magufuli said in a statement released by the Directorate of Presidential Communications. President Magufuli urged authorities in Songwe Region to investigate the cause of the accident and take stringent measures to curb road accidents, which continued claiming human lives.  Statistics from the traffic police show that from January to December 2017, a total of 2,254 road crashes, some being fatal, were reported. The number, however, has decreased by 586 accidents, equivalent to 20.6 per cent, over the previous year. In the same period 2,705 people died compared to 3,381 fatalities in 2016, a 20-per cent decrease. The number of those injured from January to December 2017 was 6,169 as compared to 9,549 injured in the same period in 2016. Meanwhile, President Magufuli and his wife have consoled the family of Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, following the death of the minister’s daughter Zul Kigwangalla. Accompanied by his wife Janeth, the President visited the bereaved family in Mikocheni, Dar es Salaam, and met with some family members among them being Dr Kigwangalla’s wife Dr Bayoum Kigwangalla. Preparations are underway to transport the body of Zul Kigwangalla to Nzega in Tabora Region for burial.