THE temperature is steadily swallowing up Simba and Young Africans camps ahead of the giants’ second clash of the season on Saturday. The two traditional rivals’ clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam comes after both had tricky fixtures last weekend and on Tuesday, their focus has now switched on the eagerly awaited derby clash. Simba will enter the match at the backdrop of a sweet 1-0 victory over Egyptian giants Al Ahly in CAF Champions League at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. While Yanga will be buoyed with a hard fought 1-0 win over JKT Tanzania in the Mainland Premier League match at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. Both sides have intensified preparations for the Saturday’s battle and league leaders Yanga have opted to pitch camp outside Dar es Salaam—driving all the way to Morogoro, seeking calm environment to meditate on the game. S imba on the other hand, have chosen to set their base in Dar es Salaam, shunning their usual base in Unguja, where they usually set camp going into the derby clash. And, this time both sides appear to be under intense pressure from their supporters, especially after sharing the spoils with a barren draw in the first round. Simba will be seeking nothing but victory, to strengthen their title defence campaign, while Yanga are looking to extend their league lead as well keeping alive their chances of dethroning their rivals. Yanga occupy the top spot on the log with 58 points from 23 games, massive 22 points ahead of Simba, who have eight games in hand. The Msimbazi Reds are placed fourth on the table but if they win all their matches in hand, they will certainly go top of the table. Speaking about the epic Dar derby, Simba’s coach Patrick Aussems said they will regroup today for the stand-up Mainland Premier League battle. “Tomorrow (yesterday), we will be celebrating our victory over Al Ahly and thereafter, start preparing for Yanga match,” Aussems said shortly after the match against Al Ahly. On his part, Yanga Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera predicted a tough match but remained hopefully his charges will emerge victorious. Ahead of the clash, tension is strongly mounting between the two sets of supporters with either side claiming that their team will emerge victorious over their rivals. The Reds supporters are proud of their squad especially their lethal striking force comprising; Emmanuel Okwi, John Bocco and Meddie Kagere and the fans believe nothing can stop their team from earning three crucial points on Saturday. Their rivals believe they have everything in their powers to beat their opponents. Yanga are seemingly in high spirit after regaining their winning formula in the league, which will certainly boost players’ morale going into the match. Yanga Chairman of Players’ Registration Committee, Hussein Nyika said their squad was in good shape ahead of the clash and all was going well in preparations. He said that they are looking forward to post positive results. Former Simba Chairman, Ismail Aden Rage said that if the Msimbazi Reds will replicate the performance and quality displayed against Al Ahly ‘Africa club of the century’ there was no way Yanga will avoid defeat.