TANZANIAN police were on Wednesday extolled for quelling crimes and maintaining tranquility in the country. Briefing reporters here, Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola (pictured) singled out the law enforcers’ vigilance and commitment to fight crimes for years. He said the country was now witnessing a decline in crime rates, thanks to the good work of the police. According to the minister, 591,803 criminal cases were reported last year compared to 596,533 cases in 2017, indicating a decrease of 4,730 crimes, equivalent to 0.8 per cent. “The security organs particularly the police force have performed incredible job in ensuring peace and security prevails in the country,” the minister explained. Mr Lugola praised the law enforcers for their successes in curbing crimes notwithstanding the challenges that they grapple with in their daily operations. “The challenges could have possibly derailed or discouraged them (police) from performing their duties but they have stood firm and stayed true to their calling,” observed Mr Lugola. The minister further appealed to members of the public to have confidence with the country’s police force, imploring them to accord the police the necessary support they need in their work. Mr Lugola who is on a weeklong tour of the region dispelled fears of insecurity in the country, maintaining that Tanzania still retains its global status as the beacon of peace. He castigated the few individuals whom he accused of using their ill-wills in tarnishing the country’s image. Mr Lugola urged investors and tourists to ignore reports making rounds on social media that Tanzania was an unsafe destination, deeming them baseless and unfounded. He challenged those peddling the lies to come out in the public to confirm their claims. “If anything, investors and tourists have their countries represented here through their embassies, they should be assured of their safety,” he said. The minister was yesterday evening due to address a public rally in the tourist city before embarking on his visit to other districts in the region.