THE High Court at Moshi Registry has granted authority to businessman Werandumi Benjamin Ulomi to administer the estate of his brother, Arusha-based prominent mineral dealer, Jubilate Benjamin Ulomi, who died at Aga Khan Nairobi Hospital early this year. Judge Patricia Fikirini reached into such a decision after temporarily granting an application for letters of administration presented by Ulomi's family advocate, Engineer Joseph Ngiloi from Makoa Attorneys, ahead of finalization of Probate and Administration Cause to be determined later. She pointed out that having carefully studied the records in the application as well as the Probate and Administration Cause still pending, the application filed under section 38 and 39 of the Probate and Administration of Estates Act complied with requirements under Rule 14 (1), 50 and 51 (1) of the Rules. The judge said that the probate and administration application was yet to be granted and the chance that it would be granted in the near future was farfetched. To leave the deceased's businesses unattended, she said, might lead to unnecessarily waste or damage to the properties involved. Likewise, the judge further said there was a possibility of suffering to be caused especially to the children who need maintenance, staff who should be paid to maintain their families, as well as business undertakings to be managed, if a temporary administrator is not appointed. "Allowing such state of affair to go on without a proper overseer will not only be unfair and unjust, bust equally irresponsible. In light of the above, I find the application by the applicant, Werandumi Benjamin Ulomi deserves granting and I hereby proceed to grant the application as prayed," the judge ruled. Narrating on the late Jubilate's demise, Engineer Ngiloi told the court that the deceased had been sick since July 2018, initially admitted at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC), Moshi before being airlifted to Aga Khan University Hospital where he later succumbed on his illness on January 15, 2019. He explained that the deceased body was brought back on January 16, 2019 and laid to rest on February 2, 2019. The advocate further submitted that the deceased has an ongoing mining business at Mirerani which has several employees and he has also left behind three children who are in school and need care. Therefore, he submitted, the application before the court was to request the deceased’ young brother with whom they had been working together in the mines located at Bloc D, Mirerani, each owning a primary licence, to be allowed to undertake operations of the businesses thereat. He said that the proceeds of the mining business should be banked at CRDB Bank, Arusha Branch in the name of Jubilate Benjamin Ulomi and through the clan meeting, the applicant and Makoa Attorneys were appointed to monitor all transactions undertaken, staff reimbursement and children maintenance. While the High Court is adjudicating probate administration of estates of the deceased, the deceased's wife, Zainabu Rashid, is running parallel proceedings before Hai District Court at Bomang'ombe in Kilimanjaro Region. The wife has also included in her application one of the deceased's child, who is one of the three beneficiaries mentioned in the probate administration filed at the High Court by the deceased's young brother. She has applied and obtained an injunction restraining family members of the deceased not to expose, waste, damage or alienate the deceased properties and bank accounts, till the administrator of estates of the properties of the deceased is dully appointed by the court with competent jurisdiction. Close relatives of the deceased, however, contend that Zainabu was not legally married to Jubilate and have challenged her to prove the same. Onesy Ulomi, who is the young brother of the deceased, stated in an affidavit that Jubilate was not legally married to the applicant to his knowledge. He also stated, "Jubilate who was ex-communicated from his church for having multiple children with different women without following his spiritual guidance was reunited after repentance before Reverend Chambulila of Good Samaritan Foundation and declared not to have any legalized marriage." Engineer Ngiloi explained that family members had directed Zainabu to attend and bring the children for the burial, but she did not heed the call and instead criminally trespassed into the premises of the deceased and forced out employees and occupied the same with her entire clan under police assistance. Earlier, he said Zainabu had reported to the police that the two minor children had no place to stay, but actually the children are studying at a boarding school at St. Patrick Arusha and it is Werandumi Benjamin Ulomi, the young brother of the deceased, who is paying their school fees. The advocate explained further that customarily, Zainabu could not enter the premises of the deceased without the clan's meeting to deliberate on her status and subsequently authorizing her to do so.