THE Bank of Africa (UBA) has donated literature books to secondary schools in Kisarawe District, Coast Region. The books donated under UBA Foundation worth 6.4m/- and were handed over to Kimani and Makurunge Secondary Schools. Speaking after receiving the books, the Makurunge Secondary School Headmaster Hassan Ruheye said that it was important to recognise the efforts which are being made by private institutions like UBA Tanzania in supporting education sector in the country. “These books will increase the ability of our students in performing good in literature and also in other subjects and in return reach the government’s goal on industrialisation,” Ruheye said. The Headmaster called upon UBA Tanzania and other stakeholders to continue supporting education sector in the country. UBA Bank Tanzania Chief Operating Officer Flavia Kiyanga said that the bank believes in a society there were learners get their education in good environment and schools with learning equi pment like textbooks. “On that case, it’s good to invest in our children’s education and that has been fulfilled by donating these books to Kimani and Makurunge Secondary Schools,” UBA Chief Operating Officer said. UBA Tanzania has for a long time been supporting the education sector in the country. For that reason, the Bank was recognised by Tanzania Education Authority in 2018 among others as an institution that supports learning. UBA Foundation through its Read Africa Initiative has invested in the African youth to promote learning and a reading culture by donating various literature books to schools in Africa. Kiyanga added that English language has been one of the barriers for students to perform well in their final exams. “We trust that these books will empower these students to perform well in their subjects and also increase the number of students performing well in the final exams,” said Kiyanga. Speaking on behalf of Kimani and Makurunge Secondary Schools, the Kisarawe District Secondary School Education Officer Patrick Gwivaha said the UBA donation has come at the right time as the schools have been facing shortage of various textbooks something which affected the academic performance. “I take this opportunity to promise that we will take proper care of these books for the advantage of us and the coming generation,” the District Education Officer said.