SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems knew even before the match that Egyptian mission would be pointless, hence the 5-0 loss. Aussems told media that he expected a tough test against Cairo giants Ahly in the CAF Champions League, saying that the Egyptian team is the strongest in Africa over the past 10 years. “It is a very important match. We know that we are facing the strongest team in Africa in the last 10 years,” Belgian tactician Aussems told Egyptian TV Channel Sada El-Balad. “To be honest, I didn’t expect to get points from the Vita Club and Ahly away matches. Our main concentration is to acquire points at our own pitch,” the coach added. Ahly, who reached the Champions League final in the past two years but lost on both occasions, are on top of Group D with seven points, while Simba are third with three points. “I didn’t concentrate on Ahly players,” Aussems added. Simba coach, however, claimed that Egyptian teams are always shown support by referees in their continental matches, saying: “I don’t love dreams. Surely we won’t get points against Ahly,” he said. Supporting the team’s coach, the club’s Information Officer, Haji Manara told fans and supporters that Simba now bank on home ground advantage, targeting to reap 9 points. Manara who assured fans and supporters that their team will bounce back to win all their home games. “We have two home matches against Al Alhy and AS Vita, which will be effectively utilised to turn tables,” he disclosed. “I know all supporters and fans are deeply saddened by the hefty loss, but those who scorn you will be ashamed when we win the two crucial games,” said the official,” Manara wrote in his instagram page. Egyptian giants Al Ahly scored five goals in 39 minutes to go top of Group D. The Red Devils proved too strong for their Tanzanian visitors Simba as they thrashed them 5-0 in Alexandria on Saturday as the mini league stage reached the halfway mark. Despite being hit by a series of injuries to not less than 11 key players, Ahly produced an outstanding first half performance to score all five goals in the opening 40 minutes. The record eight time champions top Group D table with seven points, three clear of second placed AS Vita of DR Congo. Simba have three points and Algeria’s JS Saoura on two points in that order. Ahly needed just 130 seconds to break the deadlock. A corner kick from Ali Maaloul found Hussein Elshahhat whose cross was met with Amro Elsoleya’s header for the opener. Tunisian Maaloul thought he had doubled Ahly’s lead after 15 minutes but his free-kick kissed the side net. Nigerian-import Junior Ajayi produced a beautiful back-heel kick that was saved by the visitor’s goalkeeper Aishi Manula. Maaloul scored Ahly’s second goal after 23 minutes, finishing a brilliant group play that saw him scoring after Nasser Maher’s through pass. The Tunisian left back later turned from scorer to provider when he sent a calling cross that found Ajayi to make it 3-0 at the half hour mark. And just four minutes later Karim “Nedved” added his name to the scorers list when he finished Elshahhat’s cross to score Ahly’s fourth goal. Nedved returned on 39 minute to complete his personal brace while Elshahhat completed his hat-trick of assists as the Red Devils went into the break leading 5-0.