NEARLY 5,000 spectators, business community, exhibitors and car fans in Tanzania and beyond are bracing for a pioneer ‘outdoor Auto show’ to be held in Arusha towards the end of this month. Dubbed ‘Arusha Auto Show 2019’, the first of its kind to be organised with an eye to promote automobile and automotive industries, is slated for February 23 – 24, 2019, at the spacious Magereza Grounds, just off the Arusha Airport. Billed as the premier auto fair in the East African region, the event which is being organised by Idea Africa, with its headquarters in Arusha City, will attract nearly 5,000 spectators from across the EA region and beyond, creating the perfect business avenue for entrepreneurs. “The event provides an opportunity for exhibitors to present their vehicles to the transportation and logistics industry,” said Augustine Namfua, the Fair’s Executive Chairman and Idea Africa’s CEO. Mr Namfua, who is the mastermind behind the show, added that the event will bring together car fans, industry service providers such as insurance companies, financial institutions, tour operators and spare parts and accessories dealers under one roof. “This event provides commercial vehicle operators with far greater choice than any other exhibition serving the industry,” he added. As to why they chose Arusha, the organiser said the city not only boasts of accommodating a fast growing middle class population, but also enjoys an ever-increasing and remarkable interest on modern, classic and vintage cars. “Arusha Auto Show will be the perfect avenue for promoting and sustaining the culture. With a thriving tourism and mining trades, Arusha now needs even more recreational events for the population to feel the multiplier effects,” Mr Namfua explained. On his part the Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (TATO)’s Chief Executive Officer, Sirili Akko said the Arusha Auto Show comes at the right moment as the city billed as the pearl of the country’s tourism and diplomatic activities, needs such events to stimulate the local economy. “I’m sure the show’s economic multiplier effect will trickle down to the common folks because it will attract a number of people not only from nearby cities, but also from across the East African region, who will come and spend in Arusha,” Mr Akko explained.