COUNCILLORS and Members of Parliament (MPs) were yesterday told to visit their respective electoral areas and explain to their voters the achievements of the ruling CCM during the past three years. Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa said during the 2015-2018 period, President John Magufuli’s administration performed impressively through service delivery to wananchi. “Every leader is duty bound to explain to people the achievements that the government has recorded…we have nothing to hide,” said Premier Majaliwa, citing education where the government provides fee-free education from nursery to form four as the sectors with great achievements. The government spends about 20bn/- monthly in education improvement, said the premier, adding that in the health sector, availability of medicines stands at 90 per cent, with the target being to achieve 100 per cent by next year. He directed the District Executive Directors (DEDs) to identify new sources of internal revenues and ensure that all the collected funds are deposited through proper accounts. “Few unfaithful workers who steal the funds will not be tolerated,” he warned. The premier, who was recently appointed CCM Patron for Kigoma and Kagera regions, challenged leaders to regularly convene meetings and explain the good things the government is implementing. “There are many credible achievements, including implementation of projects in different regions, districts and wards, covering water the sector in particular, with billions of taxpayers’ money invested. The projects belong to the people. They have the right to know what the government is doing to improve their lives,” he said. Mr Majaliwa said CCM was keen to improve people’s lives, “Wananchi should get rid of negative perception that CCM has the habit of rigging votes during elections. No, this is quite wrong. CCM has the capacity to win elections genuinely. We have majority support.” He directed CCM leaders to settle their personal differences and focus on serving the people. “I am quite sure the differences were closed yesterday,” he said. He tasked CCM leaders countrywide to evaluate their areas, including streets and villages under CCM and those under opposition and register more members for the party to win this year’s local government elections and register the landslide victory in the general elections next year. The premier was addressing CCM leaders who attended the regional CCM committee meeting in Bukoba Municipal Council yesterday morning.