IT has not been easy for many, since the news on the demise of one of the country’s best icons in the entertainment industry and youth engagement activism Ruge Mutahaba broke out on Tuesday night. The social media has since been filled with tremendous grief and sorrow. Mourners, apparently bowled over, typed on their accounts, sadly speaking highly of him just minutes after a local radio station broke the news. Clearly, this demonstrates how Ruge, who was the Programmes Director at Clouds Media Group, touched the lives of many. People from all walks of life, including President John Magufuli, posted on their social network pages, describing the departed soft-spoken talented man whose burial is scheduled for next Monday in Bukoba, Kagera Region. A few minutes after the news was aired on the local radio station, President Magufuli mourned on his tweeter that; “It is with great sadness that I received the news on the passing of Ruge Mutahaba. I will forever remember him for his huge contribution in the media and entertainment industry as well as his efforts in mentoring the youth. My sincere condolences to his family and friends.” Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan described Ruge on her twitter account saying; “You thrived to open the world to hundreds of youth in the country, you have been very creative and a person who could spot various opportunities. Surely, Ruge. He has certainly left a legacy in Tanzania’s media industry and was also a great partner for United Nations Tanzania in promoting the SDGs. He is already missed for sure.” A prominent local media guru, philanthropist and businessman, Mr Reginald Mengi, commented: “RIP Ruge Mutahaba; the media fraternity is shocked by the very sad news of your untimely departure. You leave behind a huge gap which we shall find very difficult to fill. You were truly a gentleman and pioneer in many aspects of the media. Farewell our brother. Kigoma Urban Member of Parliament, Mr Zitto Kabwe, remarked: “We are all God’s Children and to him we shall return. Ruge, you have gone forever but how you lived your life is a lesson to us all.” Speaking at Ruge’s residential home where mourners gathered in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, Premier Mr Kassim Majaliwa described the deceased, as an important resource for Tanzanians and the government as a whole, especially when he took time to translate the philosophy of patriotism, since the fourth-phase government. “He was also an inspirational person who encouraged youth to discover and use the available opportunities in the society for their personal and national benefits”, said the premier. Sometimes, the PM added, Ruge spent his own money to attain his goal to disseminate the philosophy in mobilising youth to recognize themselves and grab the available opportunities for development. “His death therefore, is a blow to all of us due to his huge contribution to Tanzanians and the government. We have been following up his treatment as well as praying for him,” said the PM. The Member of Parliament (MP) for Iramba West constituency, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, commented that Ruge was always focusing on development and self-determination for everyone in the society. Mr Nchemba recalled the time he (Nchemba) was a treasurer for the ruling CCM, when Ruge advised him to concentrate on transforming the idle opportunities into production. Ruge passed away on Tuesday in South Africa. According to the family spokesperson, Mr Annik Kashasha, Ruge’s body is expected to arrive in Dar es Salaam tomorrow. Last respects are scheduled for Saturday and the body will be transported on Sunday to Bukoba, Kagera Region, next Monday. Ruge Mutahaba was born in 1970 in Brooklyn, New York in United States. He went to Arusha School from standard 1 to 6 and then moved to Mlimani primary school where he completed his primary education. He joined Forodhani secondary for O -Level and then Pugu High School for A – Level studies. He later joined San Jose University of California for Bachelor Degree in marketing and later on BA in Finance. While he was studying in USA, his fellow Director at Clouds media, Joseph Kusaga was running a Night Club Disco which was known as Clouds Disco. Ruge became the sole supplier of various equipment to run the club. When he returned to Tanzania after completing his studies he joined forces with Kusaga and they established Clouds Media in Arusha City. Ruge is best known for setting up famous concerts identified as Tigo Fiesta, an annual concert that takes place in different regions across Tanzania. He was also the driving force behind Tanzania House of Talent, a non-profit organisation that he established in 2005 to provide music, dance and theatre lessons to young people for enjoyment, education and employment opportunities. He was also responsible for coaching and mentoring youth in development opportunities.