AN agronomist concentrating on promoting export production for bananas, pineapples and cassava in Zanzibar; Coast, Tanga, Arusha and Morogoro regions, has urged smallholders to form farming groups in order to benefit from using seedlings with a tissue culture background and specialised extension services. The agronomist, who is the Managing Director of Kilimo Organo Company Limited, Mr Ammar Mussaji, told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that their company is pushing for popularisation of modern farming methods among peasants in order to increase banana and pineapple harvests that will steadily feed local agro-industries and generate exports. He remarked: “Bananas and pineapples offer Tanzania beautiful export prospects but only if we shall increase production and quality of our produce. The country can increase production and quality of these crops steadily if peasants will form groups and use seedlings grown using tissue culture expertise because the plants will neither be heavily vulnerable to diseases nor will our peasants be heavily dependent on fertiliser or manure.” Mr Mussaji said their company was working with smallholder, medium and big farmers so that Tanzanian agriculture becomes commercial and highly productive. However, he explained, the focus was on peasants because they are the majority. “The sheer number gives them prominence and they face many challenges, including lack of capital. We advise them to form groups to secure bank financing, to be served better,” he said, adding that organised peasants had no reason to fear bank loans because his company would ensure peasants got good harvests and repaid loans. The MD said his company, formed in 2015, wants to encourage in Tanzania the kind of agricultural production that guarantees farmers increased harvests, markets and disposable income. Going by the 2015 United Nations Conference on Trade and Conference (UNCTAD) document on Tanzania’s agriculture and tourism, top 10 agricultural commodities based on production quantity are cassava, maize, sweet potato, sugarcane, banana, fresh milk, paddy, horticultural products, potato and pulses. But by production value, the top 10 agricultural commodities are meat, banana, pulses, maize, fresh milk, cassava, paddy, groundnuts, horticulture and sunflower seeds. The company exports seedlings to Namibia, Uganda, Kenya, Ghana and some Latin American countries.