YOUNG Africans Head C oach Mwinyi Z ahera said his side lacked creativity after a 1-0 defeat from traditional rivals Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Simba’s striker Meddie Kagere stabbed Yanga with the winner in the 71st minute of the second half to enable his team pocket vital three points. Simba have now notched 39 points from 16 games while remaining with eight games in hand. The vital triumph, on the other hand, saw the Msimbazi Street side reclaiming their third slot on the table, dislodging Lipuli FC who are now fifth on the table with 37 points. Prior to the Dar es Salaam derby, they were sitting on third position. Similarly, Simba reduced the point gap with the Mainland Premier League leaders Yanga to 19 points from previous 23 points. However, the two teams are already outside Dar es Salaam in do or die matches as Simba take on African Lyon tomorrow at Sheikh Amri Abeid Memorial Stadium in Arusha while Yanga face Mbao at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Wednesday. At a post match press briefing, Zahera said Simba beat his side on having a bigger number of quality players who are able to adapt the rhythm of the match in accordance with how their opponents are playing. “I have been saying it over and over again that in terms of quality players and intelligence on the field, Simba are better than us and this is exactly what happened today (Saturday),” Z ahera said. He additionally said his intention to substitute Amis Tambwe for Mrisho Ngassa at the start of the second half was a tactical approach meant to stop Simba’s right back Zana Coulibaly whom he said was enjoying much free space mainly in the first half. “This enabled us to play with one striker Heritier Makambo since Ibrahim Ajibu was tasked to play as a winger to seal the flanks of our opponents which we succeeded in the first ten minutes into the second half,” the coach said. On his part, Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said he was happy to collect maximum three points from the tricky fixture while insisting that his ambition is to win and defend the title at the end of the season. “Remember the last time we played against Yanga, my players missed lots of scoring opportunities which made us worried. Today (Saturday), after 6 0 minutes of play, I started to be worried again because I thought the same results would repeat but with this outcome, I am pleased,” Aussems said. He also added that the victory was deserved for them and that he is happy with the way his charges approached the match. “What matters in football is to win. It does not matter at what time of the match you score provided you get necessary three points at the end of normal period of play. Currently, we just have to focus on the upcoming league games to continue climbing up the league ladders,” he said. Furthermore, the Belgian coach said with eight games at hand to play, it does not mean that they will get all 24 points because at some point, his side or league leaders Yanga will drop points on the way as such, every three points they collect matter to them. The defeat was the second for Yanga in this campaign.