INSPECTOR General of Police (IGP), Simon Sirro has urged Tanzanians to continue cooperating with the police and other security organs to ensure all criminal related actions are reported in their areas. The IGP said Tanzania has been safe for decades due to the strong cooperation among wananchi, saying that police alone cannot perform their duties diligently without public support. The IGP was speaking in Kishapu district, Shinyanga region during his tour in the region. Mr Sirro’s tour covers security related matters including the Njombe killings which involved children. According to IGP Sirro, killers and all criminals live in the community and that every mwananchi is responsible for reporting them for legal action to take place. “It is obvious that these people live among us, therefore it is our responsibility to report them to the authority so that legal action can be taken against them,” he said. Moreover, Mr Sirro asked the public to be aware of terrorism related activities, saying what is happening in neighbouring countries should not be allowed in the country. He said police officers perform their duties under difficult conditions and that the government has been doing everything to ensure improvement of several infrastructures. The IGP promised to build at least 12 houses for police officers in Shinyanga municipality, since the municipality has only 9 houses for officers. In Kishapu district, the police boss provided one vehicle to police officers and promised to support the construction of houses for law enforcers in the area. He added that police is set to conduct countrywide operations to arrest all people who are involved in violation of law. On her side, Kishapu District Commissioner, Ms Nyabaganga Talaba commended the good job done by police officers in the district, saying residents enjoy peace and security that is maintained by the officers in the area. “On this side we have been assured of peace and security, we live well and there is no threat to the peace. However, we feel sorry for what happened in Njombe recently, we believe the police force will arrest all the culprits so that they can be arraigned in court,” she said.