THE Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has expressed his concern over a security situation along Tanzania-Kenya Border and has consequently directed state organs to strengthen security and control hit-or-miss entry of people and goods. The PM said he was well-informed that Holili Border was being used illegally by some people entering the country as well as illegal importation of goods was a common phenomenon, something he said was detrimental to the security of the country and its people. He spoke this during his tour of Holili Border Post to listen to challenges facing the staff as well as issuing government directives on what should be done to reinforce the country’s security. He said Tanzanian and Kenyan security forces and the Immigration Department should assess the situation and set up a joint system that would ensure only those allowed to cross the border and the same should be applied to goods. Mr Majaliwa called upon those tasked with the duty to inspect goods to be honest and diligent and ensure illegal goods such as arms were not smuggled into either country as they were dangerous. "You Immigration officers and members of our forces stationed at the border must use all possible techniques to detect any crime, which is or about to be committed and take swift action. This border has more than 260 illegal entry points. Some may have legal permits to cross the border, but in their luggage they have arms or even bombs. You must take note of that," said the PM.He stressed that Tanzanians and Kenyans were brothers (and sisters) and should live in harmony with each other although each country had its own laws that should be adhered to and the brotherhood should be used to further peace and security. He called upon members of the public to volunteer reports of any improper acts or when they were about to happen. Kenyan Customs and Border Control Manager Daniel Nyambaka told the PM that there was adequate control of goods at the border. “This is a joint border post. We have simplified services so that people use less time, but inspection is strict. When we face challenges we cooperate to address them,” said Mr Nyambaka. Rombo MP Joseph Selasini said the border had more than 340 illegal entry points used to import illegal goods as well as equipment that were not allowed in the country. He hailed the government for controlling the entry points. In another development, Prime Minister Majaliwa has issued a 16-day ultimatum to Rombo District Executive Director Magreth John to remit 114m/- to Holili Village accrued from the sale of minerals. The Prime Minister issued the directive yesterday when he addressed Holili One-Stop Border Post workers and residents. Mr Majaliwa was prompted to issue such a directive after Holili villagers received him with placards, complaining to him over failure by Rombo District Council to remit 20 per cent of mineral sales to their village. This being the case, remittance is now supposed to be made before March 10. Rombo District Commissioner Agnes Hokororo and Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner Anna Mghwira were told to ensure the directive was implemented.