A CONTROVERSIAL investor, who has been resisting vacating a residential house owned by Rungwe Avocado Company (RAC) in Rungwe District of Mbeya Region for a long time after being sacked as the company’s managing director, has finally succumbed to ministerial pressure and will move out of the house. Mr Robert Clowes, who established Kuza Africa Limited dealing in avocado business, after he had been sacked from RAC for poor service delivery, has finally agreed to move out of the house at a meeting with a government delegation that visited Rungwe at the beginning of this week. The delegation led by Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, also included Ms Angela Kairuki, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Investment). In Mbeya Region, they met the regional authorities and investors in avocado farming, including RAC and Kuza Africa. Mr Clowes told the ministerial delegation that he was ready to vacate the house immediately as long as he was paid his dues from his current status as a minority shareholder in RAC, where he was the first managing director beginning in 2006 until he was eventually sacked for poor service delivery in 2017 and went on to invest in Kuza Africa Limited. Mr Clowes has been resisting vacating the RAC-owned house on the RAC-owned avocado farm in Ilolo Village for a long time even ignoring the court ruling against him as he continued to cling to his share of the lucrative avocado market in Rungwe, the nation’s leading avocado producer district. In 2006, following a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), Wakulima Tea Company, Tanzania’s most successful example of tea privatisation, Mr Clowes was asked to develop an avocado section as a trial venture within and along the same principles as the successful Wakulima Tea Company. The avocado project was later developed into a separate entity and was called Rungwe Avocado Company with Mr Clowes as its managing director. It was Rungwe Avocado Company that developed Hass Avocado Factory in Rungwe District and in the entire southern highlands region from the grassroots to the present hugely income generating crop for residents of Rungwe District and beyond. According to an authoritative document presented to higher authorities in Tanzania recently, in 2016 after consistently not meeting agreed production, export and turnover targets from the inception of the project, which was roughly a period of nine years, which resulted in RAC’s accumulation of huge losses, the Board of Director of RAC decided to restructure the company and appoint an experienced managing director to run the company. At first, Mr Clowes agreed to company restructuring, but he later changed his mind and refused to cooperate and report to the new managing director at a time avocado sales had dropped from 1,420 to 390 tonnes, which resulted in over $1m loss to the company. In the circumstances and in the best interests of the company, the Board of Directors of RAC then decided not to renew Mr Clowes’ contract, which was to expire at the end of March, 2017 and Mr Clowes was paid his terminal dues. Such were the losses and accumulated debts during Mr Clowe’s time as managing director that RAC sought further financing for the company and this was done through the conversion of existing shareholder debt into equity through a normal process known to all existing shareholders at the time. Mr Clowes, who at that time remained a shareholder even after he had been sacked as managing director, refused to participate in normal procedures and hence lost his directorship. He remained a shareholder with circa seven per cent of equity. The document shared with the government authorities shows this resulted in disputes between RAC and Mr Clowes, causing direct and indirect hardships to the company, the project and to the economic growth of the region, outgrowers and to even government revenue. This document, whose details have been seen by this paper, show that the action taken by him and his wife Petra are in serious and material breach of his contract and a shareholders’ agreement signed in 2006 with Rungwe Avocado Company. His actions and altercations between RAC and Mr Clowes include his refusal to vacate the company house on the avocado estate. The company opened an eviction case at Tukuyu District Land and Housing Tribunal and was awarded an eviction order, but due to irregularities with the appointed court broker, the case is still ongoing at the District Land and Housing Tribunal 18 months after the case was opened. “Even after filing a case with the District Land and Housing Tribunal, over 20 months later, Mr Clowes remains in our house, disrupting good harmony in the district and sabotaging our efforts to continue the good work that was started in the first decade,” says part of the document. In contravention of the shareholders’ agreement with RAC, Mr Clowes and his wife Petra have set up an alternative avocado business through Kuza Africa Limited, with alleged support by Munich-based Mr Marcus Schreiber and Ms Petra Clowes and managed by Mr Clowes himself. Kuza Africa has also taken over 43 hectares of avocado, which were recently developed and managed by RAC on behalf of Moravian Church after the church controversially terminated the managerial contract with RAC in 2017.