STANDARD Chartered Bank Tanzania has launched digital online banking solution to ease customers’ access to banking services and support country’s efforts to drive up financial inclusion. Launching the Standard Chartered Mobile Tanzania App with over 72 self-service requests in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Sanjay Rughani said the digital app would give new push to banking penetration in the country still lagging below 20 per cent. “This is a key milestone on our digital journey as a bank and underlines the commitment to continue steadily investing in modern technology, build systems and up skill to the people whilst tapping into global expertise to make digitisation a reality in Tanzania,” he said. The Standard Chartered digital solution will give clients more flexible banking options where an individual can join the bank to benefit from the immense banking services by downloading the application. The App offers free online account opening both in local and US dollar currencies enabling clients to enjoy benefits like zero fee on bill payment, zero monthly ledger, no minimum balance, free initial ATM cards and zero fee on the Standard Chartered to Standard Chartered online bank transfers. “Digitalisation for the bank means disruption from traditional and conventional ways of banking to transforming banking business with the sole objective of improving and addressing clients’ needs.” Mr Rughani said clients look for products and partners who will offer solutions that are accessible, convenient, cost effective and forward looking. The bank’s Head of Retail Banking, Ajmair Riaz said the new digital banking solution was developed in consideration of the existing and potential clients needs. “We took into consideration the feedback received from our clients to provide the innovative technology that allows them to execute all banking activities from a mobile device,” he said. He added, for the first time, clients on boarding journey has been fully digitized and client can open a new account, end to end through the bank’s Mobile App without coming to the bank’s branches. The Regional Head of Retail Banking for Africa and Middle East Jaydeep Gupta said the launching of the digital solution was relevant and responds to the global change of clients demand for banking services.