In June last year, it announced the removal of VAT to make them affordable to users   AFTER the decision to remove tax from sanitary towels failed to lower prices, the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children has sought help from two other ministries to find a feasible solution. Speaking at an event to launch a two-day meeting for the end of Commonwealth of Learning (COL) Girls Inspire Project in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Ms Ummy Mwalimu (pictured) said her ministry had written to the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, and the Ministry of Finance and Planning, asking them to direct importers and sellers of sanitary towels to lower prices so that the government’s objective of ensuring availability of the products to every woman, especially schoolgirls, was achieved. She said the government would not hesitate to institute drastic measures if prices were not lowered, including reinstating the tax, which the government had removed. According to the minister, a survey conducted recently shows that the price of sanitary towels is still high and sometimes retailers trick customers. “Although some businesspersons have been pretending to lower the price of sanitary towels, in reality they have been tampering with the number of towels per packet to exploit customers,” the minister said. She noted that her ministry would contact the Fair Competition Commission (FCC) on standard packaging of the sanitary towels in the local market. “We want the packaging to be standard. For instance, if a packet contains eight towels, then price must also match that number.” It must be remembered that, when tabling the 2018/19 government budget in June last year, Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango, announced the scrapping of Value Added Tax (VAT) on sanitary towels. The government’s decision aimed at enabling women to access sanitary towels at affordable prices. He said it was the government’s expectations that sanitary towel producers and sellers would make them available at affordable prices. Launching the project, Ms Mwalimu, whose passion was to enhance and positively impact the lives of women and girls in the country, said she wanted to see girls getting education without challenges of early marriage and pregnancy. She noted that the government had taken various steps to ensure children remained in school, starting with the fee free education policy in primary and secondary schools introduced in 2015 by President John Magufuli. “This means that before it was hard for parents with low income to send their children to school and mostly preferred to send boys to school than girls. But with this policy, parents have no excuse as they can send both boys and girls to school without any problem,” she commented. Another thing the government has done to develop and fight against child marriage and pregnancy is creating an enabling learning environment by building proper school infrastructure to solve numerous problems that hindered girls from going to learn. “We have managed to build more than 530 dormitories in different secondary schools across the country, which are mostly for girls to avoid walking long distances and falling into temptations on the way to school and make them fall victim of early pregnancy.” “We have also managed to build more than 6,000 toilets in various schools, which have a private room for girls to use whenever in their menstrual period,” added Ms Mwalimu. The government has also taken stern measures to tackle child marriage and pregnancy with a 30-year jail term for anyone, who marries or engages in sexual affair with a schoolchild. Ms Malimu noted that legal reforms alone were not enough to eradicate early child marriage and pregnancy, saying there was a need to continue raising public awareness by involving parents. Expressing gratitude to the Commonwealth for the project to protect and ensure girls got education she said the government would continue fighting to ensure every girl got an opportunity to be educated. One of the victims of early pregnancy, who had benefited from the project from Nkasi District, Chala Ward, in Rukwa Region, admitted that the project had been a life changing experience for her. Coming from a poor family her parents were not able to pay her school fees and was not able to finish Form One. By the age of 17 she was forced to work as a house help in Sumbawanga Region where she was raped by the owner of the house. “I reported to the police, but nothing was done. I figured out that the man had already bribed the officers and no one believed my story and his wife claimed I was lying, saying I was the one flirting with her husband,” she said. “Now I have learned entrepreneurship as I can design Batiki clothes, produce soup and manufacture nutritious meal especially for children, among other things,” she noted. “My child is now three years old. I am glad that I can take care of her and myself,” she added.