YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said breaking winless chain against Mbao was his objective and that he visualised it. Yanga came from a goal down to post a 2-1 victory over Mbao at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Wednesday to end their three-year winless run at a tricky venue. As usual, the hosts took the lead in the extra time of the first half (48th minute) courtesy of a powerful header by Ndaki Robert which easily went behind the net as goalkeeper Ramadhani Kabwili was off his line of duty trying to clear the high-flying ball. However, Yanga came a refreshed side in the second half shrugging off their opponents 1-0 lead to stab twice through Heritier Makambo and Amis Tambwe (penalty) to gather three points from the hostile pitch. The triumph saw Yanga continue to lead with 61 points from 25 games, thereby re-establishing a 19 point gap with the third- placed reigning champions Simba SC who were 16 points down prior to Wednesday clash. The defending champions (Simba) stay glued to third slot with 42 points from 17 games and have a chance to reach 45 points if they beat second place bearers Azam FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. Speaking after the match, Zahera said directives he gave his players before the tense match motivated them a lot in enabling the team to snatch the historical win. He said: “I told them before the clash that everything has the beginning and an end as such, they had to forget unconvincing results in previous games against them and concentrate on the match at hand.” Furthermore, Zahera said he already visualised a win prior to the encounter since he had an idea that their opponents are a tough side hence there was no need to give them freedom on the ball. “At halftime, I told them (players) to increase the tempo of the game despite being behind something which paid positively as we managed to equalise and consequently win the game,” he said. On his part, Mbao coach Ally Bushiri thumbed up his charges for playing good football saying only luck was against them. “We had our moments to seal the deal but after we conceded the equalising goal, my players were a bit relaxed as such, we attracted more pressure from them (Yanga),” he said. With the defeat, Mbao are sixth on the ladder after garnering 36 points from 27 outings which put them safe from relegation. Meanwhile, Yanga coach Zahera said the immediate focus after their match with Mbao is the Azam Sports Federation Cup(ASFC) match against Namungo FC. The match will be played on Sunday at Majaliwa stadium in Lindi. He said his team targets beating Namungo FC and other ASFC tourney matches will help his team getting a chance so as to represent the country in CAF Confederation Cup. Zahera, however, predicted the game against Namungo likely to be very tough but his team would fight to get the victory. Commenting on their game against Mbao, Zahera said Mbao FC did not show any difference in the first half rather than scoring against his team. He added that he told his team to play using more crosses and keep attacking. Mbao FC Ndaki Robert said his team played well in the first half but in the second half committed many mistakes that made their opponents to equalise and later win. The former Geita gold SC and Toto Africans player said they will set themselves to win their remaining matches.