THE government, through the Local Investment Climate (LIC) programme, will supply 270 Point of Sale (POS) machines to 18 councils in Dodoma and Kigoma regions, to facilitate payment of goods and services. Speaking here on Tuesday, the Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Engineer Joseph Nyamhanga, said councils should make use of the POS for revenue collection. “The POS machines are vital for improving and managing revenue collection in councils,” said the PS during a ceremony for receiving the POS machines from the LIC programme. The LIC Programme, which is conducted jointly by Tanzania and Denmark, aims to reduce regulatory and economic barriers facing the private sector and create an economic environment in which businesses can grow and thrive. Engineer Nyamhanga pointed out that all councils should first deposit to banks all revenues collected from their internal sources instead of allocating the revenues for expenditure. The Director of the ICT Department in the President’s Office, Mr Erick Kitali, said Regional Administrative Secretaries (RASs) should frequently inspect the POS machines to ensure they operate efficiently. “All regional administrative secretaries should conduct close monitoring on the POS machines in their respective areas,” he said. Mr Kitali said there was a tendency of dishonest public servants tampering with the POS machines, as a consequence of which they don’t channel information on revenue collection to the official system. He said the Dodoma and Kigoma regions had 1,008 POS machines, the equivalent to 26 per cent, saying councils in the two regions faced a shortage of 888 machines. The Director of the Local Government Unit in the President’s Office, Dr Charles Mhina, noted that so far, the LIC programme had facilitated various projects worth 11.013bn/- in the two regions. He said the LIC programme helped to improve revenue collection through POS machines, saying while Kigoma improved collection by 88 per cent between January to December, Dodoma did so by 130 per cent. Dr Mhina explained that the LIC programme facilitated installation of POS machines in 13 public institutions and that the projects worth 1.45bn/- helped to address the bureaucracy challenge in service provision, thereby increasing the number of businesses. Team Leader of the LIC Programme, Flemming Olsen, expressed optimism that the POS machines would improve transparency in revenue collection and expenditure in councils. He underscored the need for expenditure to match with revenue collection in councils, saying the move would encourage members of the public to pay taxes. The Kigoma RAS, Mr Rashid Mchatta, expressed gratitude to the government for the POS machines, saying they would help to block loopholes for leakage of revenues. He promised to monitor the operations of POS machines closely, to ensure the councils attained the set targets.