IN a renewed drive to enhance soil health and increase agricultural production in southern highlands regions, YARA Tanzania has said a recently signed agreement on soil research and use of relevant inputs by Tanzanian farmers would stimulate crop production. YARA is a Norwegian multi-national company that markets mineral fertilisers, farming tools and other inputs. YARA Chief Agronomist Peter Assey said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend following the three institutions initialed the accord that the agreement aims at raising the status of the farmer to a higher level and promote national economy. The three institutions will cooperate closely to raise agricultural production in the southern regions, he said explaining that the company usually tests soil before selling fertilisers to farmers. The tests, he said, have revealed that soil acidity levels are quite low in southern regions. Farmers will be taught on how to use lime to raise acidity levels, he said. “This agreement means a lot to our company. It is another milestone in advancing the Tanzanian farmer we serve. Implementation of this agreement will have great benefit to the nation because it will increase the farmer’s income. But what is more important, the accord will contribute to making Tanzania a middle-income nation by 2025,” he said. YARA Southern Highlands Commercial Manager John Meshack said studies show that agricultural production in the regions has fallen primarily because acidity levels have sharply plummeted. But, he said lime has been extensively distributed to farmers to fight the farming malady in a bid to increase production in the regions which in the past were considered to be Tanzania’s bread basket. “We are optimistic… we expect farmers will get better harvests this season because of lime use,” he said. YARA Tanzania, Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) and Uyole-based Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) last week signed an agreement on soil research and use of relevant inputs by Tanzanian farmers.