THREE people were arraigned before Njombe Resident Magistrate Court yesterday, facing three murder charges. Before Resident Magistrate Magdalena Ntandu were 35-year old Joel Nziku, a driver and Makambako township resident, Nasson Kaduma (39) and Alphonce Danda (51), both farmers and Ikando villagers. State Attorneys Ahmed Seif and Yohana Misango told the court that the suspects are linked to the brutal murders of three children—Godliva Mwenda (11), Gasper Nziku (8) and Giliad Nziku (5)—from the same family on January 20, 2019. “The crimes were committed at Ikando Village, Kichiwa Ward in the Wanging’ombe District, Njombe region,” said Mr Seif. After preliminary hearing, the prosecution asked the magistrate to adjourn the case because investigation was incomplete. The case was adjourned to February 25 when it will come for mentioning and the accused were ordered to remand. The accused were not allowed to enter any plea to the charges because the court lacks the jurisdiction to hear murder cases. On the suspects’ arrival, security was tightened with at least six vehicles full of armed police officers escorting the vehicle that carried the suspects into the court’s premises from Makambako where they had been held. According to statistics released by the regional authorities here at least ten children have been killed so far in a one-month period. Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola said in parliament recently that the killings were connected to superstitious beliefs, saying the government had taken various measures, including deployment of a team of detectives to beef up investigations in the region. Chief of Defence Forces General Venance Mabeyo arrived in Njombe and held closed door meeting with members of the defence and security committee on how to quell the killings. Briefing reporters after the internal meeting, General Mabeyo said the murders had tarnished the image of Njombe region. “I’m here because I chair the country’s security committee, my presence here doesn’t mean that the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) have taken charge of the matter,” he said.