THIS was a question asked by an elderly man called Wangari Kacha residing in a rural village in Kibiti District recently to me. The question and the discussion which followed afterwards changed and completely focused my understanding of President Magufuli. Mzee Kacha convinced me to trust that JPM is in the caliber of Baba Nyerere, President Mandela, and Kwame Nkrumah. It is common for individuals to inherit spiritual powers or imitate certain behaviors and characters from their ancestors, predecessors, mentors or role models. That is why some people equate appearances and certain traits in a person to be similar to behavioral traits to their parents or relatives. The inherited behaviors or characters may be good or bad depending on the person under discussion. In the Bible there is a nice description of the encounter between the two prophets; Elijah and Elisha. This story is well written in the second book of Kings Chapter 2, where Elijah’s time to be taken to heaven was due. Elisha prayed for double anointing from Elijah and it came to pass that Elisha performed more miracles than Elijah. As for Tanzania, President JPM must have received double anointing of President Nyerere’s spiritual blessings clandestinely and we may not have known. Many may agree with me that President Nyerere was a miracle man though not a prophet. He worked hard to unite all 120 tribes and introduced Kiswahili as the national language. But, also he managed to implement several policies and development schemes successful with minimum budget. Some of the most effective policies included the universal primary education (UPE of 1977-1978) and health for all. Under his leadership many school age children enrolled to Primary education and learning was free up until the University level. The same is happening under JPM leadership and will impact the future of Tanzanians. Unfortunately, many of the so called ‘Activists’ of today and are working against the country are beneficiaries of the free education and health policies implemented by President Nyerere. If it was not Nyerere’s wisdom, some of these puppets we see today could be part of an aging group of illiterate elders in rural village. President Nyerere effectively implemented the Primary Health Care (PHC) initiative which was first conceived in 1967 and further expanded through the Decentralization Act of 1972. The achievement of this work could have contributed significantly on the declaration of the 1978 International Conference in Alma Ata, Kazakhstan (known as the “Alma Ata Declaration”). Alma-Ata put health equity on the international political agenda for the first time, and PHC became a core concept of the World Health Organization’s (WHO). It was Nyerere’s leadership which created the Tanzania decentralised administration structure and formed the backbone of easy access to social services, implementation and management programs. The village or the street is the lowest unit of administration; Ward, District, Region and National level at the top. The outstanding performance of Nyerere’s leadership created a benchmark for all prospective leaders and presidents to come in future. The impact of President Nyerere’s work covers the African continent and beyond, and for that matter, Tanzanians continued to expect resurrection of “Nyerereism” in some form of a leader to carry out restoration of the lost glory. In this fifth CCM government, Tanzanians have seen Nyerere in the form of JPM. It is obvious that the JPM powerful vivid spirit towards national development have rejuvenated the memories of Nyerere time. JPM is pushing for economic and social development on the backbone of self-reliance and ownership of the key pillars of national resources. JPM is walking and working the talk. This is because JPM has managed to cramp down corruption, poaching, embezzlement of public funds, illicit drug trafficking, irresponsibility and abuse of public office. The courage illustrated by JPM to deal with impossible issues, untouchables and working for the national interest qualifies him the President Nyerere anointing. Similarly, JPM efforts to empower the poor and create equal opportunity for economic achievement of every Tanzanian. But, also the strong initiative to resurrect the industries through construction of new and rehabilitation of the old, which were created and operated during Nyerere leadership confirms that JPM haS some of the Nyerere traits The second portion of the anointing which distinguishes JPM from other leaders is the fact that, JPM political leadership training largely occurred during the period of total corruption in Tanzania. The political atmosphere at the time was focused on self-enrichment through rooting of public properties and confiscation of national resources. It is hard to believe and see that JPM distanced himself completely from the selfish languish life he can experience and fearlessly ignore the requests for favor from the elites and their associates. Nyerere did exactly the same, because he was trained and groomed by the white colonizers who lived lavish life and were worshiped by the poor. But Nyerere did not abide to it. JPM continues to be exceptional leader for not sparing anyone of the severe punishment for misbehavior in public office. He does not have permanent friends to tolerate anything short of national interest and does not give room for negotiations or cover up transfers from one working station to the other. JPM is not a man of second chance and does not admit any officer in the recovery clinics. In conclusion, JPM represents the second coming of President Nyerere and we must work hard and match together with him to realize the vision of a middle income country. The same spirit of “Umoja ni Nguvu na Utengano ni Udhaifu” which was embraced by Baba Nyerere and accelerated by Tanzania, is boosting our economic development. A personal call to the critics, is this is not the time for publishing negative image of our country, it’s time for work.