THE Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications has clarified misconceptions on weights to be carried by transporters following East African vehicle controlling load Act. Brought by the implementation of the East African Community Vehicle Load Control Act in 2016 and its regulations of 2017, different transporters’ misunderstandings led to complaints on the change to the maximum weight permissible for all containers moving to and from Dar es Salaam port via road. According to a statement from the ministry, the correct information is that the maximum cargo weight for 40feet containers shall read 26 tonnes plus tare and not 25 tonnes plus tare as some transporters interpreted. The maximum cargo weight for 20 feet shall read 28 tonnes plus tare and not 25 tonnes plus tare; while the maximum cargo weight for 20 feet shall read 18 tonnes plus tare and not 11 tonnes plus tare. The statement clarifies that all weights explained above shall be accommodated using conversional type of tare. Tare weight or unleaded weight is the weight of a container and/or packing materials, but without the goods being shipped. However, the weight to be carried out as per the EAC Act and its regulations of 2017 shows that the permissible maximum single axle load limit with two conventional tyres is eight metric tonnes, while with four conventional tyres is ten metric tonnes. On the other hand the permissible maximum tandem axel load limit with eight conventional tyres is 18 metric tonnes and that with four super single tyres is 16 metric tonnes. Vehicles with tandem axles it’s permissible maximum load limit for those with 12 conventional tyres is 24 metric tonnes, while those with six super single tyres is 22.5 metric tonnes. The statement also indicates that the permissible maximum ‘liftable’ single axel load limit for those with four conventional tyres is 10 metric tonnes and those with two super single tyres is 8.5 metric tonnes. The statement waves a tolerance of five percent of the permissible maximum axle load limit to be allowed on the axel load limits. Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe announced earlier the Act to be effective from beginning of last month. As a result of the Act’s implementation, over 3,000 trucks were stranded at the Tanzania National Roads Agency’s (TANROADS) weighbridges. Under the new law, overload charges stand at 15,000 US dollars (about 35m/-) or a three-year jail term, contrary to the present penalty of 2,000 US dollar.