THE Court of Appeal has confirmed the death sentence imposed on a resident of Urban West in the Region of Unguja in Zanzibar, Bashiru Omar, for killing his own son, Shadrack Mziray. Justices Mbarouk Mbarouk, Rehema Mkuye and Ferdinand Wambali reached into such a decision after dismissing the appeal in which Omar, the appellant, lodged to oppose the findings of the High Court. “We are satisfied that this appeal has no merits as the case against the appellant was proved by the prosecution to the required standard. We therefore dismiss the appeal in its entirety,” they declared. During the trial, the appellant had admitted to have killed his son, but with unsound mind. He had relied on an expert opinion by a medical doctor that his mind suffered personality disorder and emotionally unstable. In their judgment delivered in Zanzibar recently, the justices of the appeals court ruled, however, that the appellant was legally convicted and sentenced of the offence of murder by the trial High Court. “We think in the circumstances of this case, considering the totality of evidence with respect to the state of mind of the appellant, before, during and after commission of the offence, there is no justification for granting the benefit of doubt that the appellant was insane when he committed the offence,” they said. According to the justices, the appellant could not, therefore, take refuge in the defence of insanity under section 12(1) of the Penal Decree of the Laws of Zanzibar, to escape liability. They were also of the settled view that the evidence in the record demonstrated without doubt that the appellant was sane when he committed the offence of murder. The justices further noted that the appellant was examined almost 13 years after the offence was committed. “Taking into consideration of what Dr Khamis Othman stated, the trial judge was justified to evaluate the conclusion contained in that medical opinion along with other evidence in the record and came to his own conclusion (of disregarding such evidence),” the justices said. They further explained that although expert evidence is not bonding, in order to aid the court to come to a fair conclusion on the issue of insanity, the medical expert must explain thoroughly in his opinion whether the symptoms of the accused he examined commonly show unsoundness of mind. The justices stated that the medical expert has also to explain whether such unsoundness of mind usually rendered the accused incapable of knowing that the nature of the act which he did is either wrong or contrary to the law at the time he did the act. “In this case, having carefully scrutinised the evidence of Dr Khamis Othman and the report which he tendered, we think, with respect, he did not sufficiently describe how the alleged unsoundness of mind affected the appellant at the time he committed the offence,” they said. The justices said that considering the length of time which had elapsed since the offence was committed to the time when the appellant was examined, there is no sufficient explanation on the methodology the doctor used and came to a conclusion that he was of unsound mind when he committed murder. Records show that the appellant committed the offence on August 29, 2003 and was examined mentally on April 14, 2016. According to his report, the doctor only examined the appellant once on April 14, 2016. “In the event, we do not, with respect, agree with (defence) submission that there were no sufficient reasons to disregard the evidence of Dr Khamis on the appellant’s state of mind. We agree with the conclusion of the trial judge which was based in the evidence in the record,” the justices said. The particulars laid by the prosecution were to the effect that on August 29, 2003 at or about 10.00 a.m. at Bububu Urban District within the Urban West Region of Unguja, with malice aforethought, the appellant caused the death of Shadrack Mziray. The High Court heard the evidence from the prosecution witnesses and the appellant who was the sole witness in his defence. At the end of the trial, the appellant was found guilty of the offence of murder and was accordingly convicted and sentenced to suffer death by hanging. Having been aggrieved by the High Court verdict, the appellant appealed to the Court of Appeal against both conviction and sentence. Ha advanced three grounds of appeal to fault the High Court judgment.