A new national campaign has been launched aimed at promoting and unlocking business opportunities for domestic products to penetrate wider market. The Real PR Solutions (RPR), the campaign organisers said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the campaign which is sponsored by the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited, publishers of Daily News, HabariLeo and SpotiLeo in collaboration with the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) and GSI Company will be rolled out nationally in the next few months starting with an event dubbed ‘Mkeka na Mvinyo’ on the Valentine’s Day. The event’s Coordinator Mr Caroline Kirwanda said that the event (Mkeka na Mvinyo) will give local producers opportunity to sell their wine to the loved ones at an event to be held at White Sands Hotel in Dar es Salaam. “With the theme ‘Wine Not?’ the event will help unlock a broken supply chain between grape farmers mainly in Dodoma whose producers have been fetching low prices partly due to low local consumption of wine,” she said. The campaign to go in line with promoting domestic tourism would help in supplementing the government’s efforts in execution of its agenda on industrialisation development. Ms Kirwanda said that the ‘Mkeka na Mvinyo’ event to mark the Valentine’s Day will enable the loved ones and other Tanzanians to sit on the Mkeka while sipping the world-class wines produced locally. “As the name suggests, instead of having chairs and tables, celebrators (loved ones) will use locally made mats. The whole idea is to have a picnic-like set-up that allows participants to fully activate their relaxation mode where they will have freedom to stretch or lie down on their mats as they deem necessary,” she said. Speaking during the media briefing, the TSN Sales and Marketing Manager Mr Januarius Maganga said the ‘Mkeka na Mvinyo’ event is of paramount importance in promoting economic growth in the country. He said TSN will be on the forefront to provide a unique platform for manufacturers and consumers integrate towards supporting the country’s economy and create jobs.