FIVE Bongo Flavour artistes will take part in the new season of Coke Studio Africa, the event scheduled this month in Nairobi, Kenya and aired through the Star Swahili Channel of StarTimes. The departing artistes are Faustina Mfinanga (Nandi), Rajab Kahali (Harmonize), Raymond Shaban Mwakyusa (Rayvan), Juma Jux and Mimi Mars. Speaking about the show, StarTimes Public Relations Officer, Samwel Desai said the company saw it necessary to broadcast the show as one way to provide entertainment to their subscribers countrywide. He added that the event would be amazing as it has many local Tanzania artistes who have composed best songs and are all eager to showcase the best performance. “They will have to put it all to overcome other artistes who will take part in this year’s edition from various countries in Africa,” he said. He further hinted that Star- Times will continue to come up with different entertainment programmes to enable their customers stay glued to their Television sets hence Coke Studio is just among them. Desai also added that his company will soon introduce the Hindi season known as Waris which is dubbed by the renowned Tanzania artiste, Yvonne Cherrie popular known as Monalisa. He said having Monalisa in the Waris season is part of the company’s initiative of promoting and enabling Tanzania artistes to participate in big entertaining series known globally. For the side of Swahili series, Desai named Suluhu which is the local produced series that involved many prominent Tanzania actors including Muhogo Mchungu. He as well spoke about the company’s Valentine campaign that urges people to tag the 10 years’ challenge pictures to their instagram page known as Startimestz and the facebook account known as StartimesTanzania whereby lucky winners will get two nights at Terrence Slipway Hotel. 25 musicians and producers will be featured in the new season and as always will be drawn from Sub-Saharan Africa. Coke Studio Africa is a music collaboration show that brings together diverse African music talents and they create Covers, Throwbacks and Original Compositions. The show also features one International musician. The last edition in 2017 featured American R& B star Trey Songz.