PRELIMINARY study on Human Immunodeficiency Viruses (HIV) trial vaccine by researchers has shown that the serum has the capability of stimulating the body to develop immunity against the virus. One of the researchers for the study, Prof Eligius Lyamuya, of the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), was however quick to add that more studies are required to develop a complete vaccine for the virus. “The preliminary study has shown that the trial vaccine was safe to people to whom it was administered,” the professor of microbiology and immunology at the varsity, explained during 3rdMUHAS-University Wide Research Dissemination symposium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Prof Lyamuya informed participants at the symposium that none of the people who were administered with the trial serum experienced any health problems while the vaccine experimental vaccine manifested a capability of stimulating the body to develop immunity against HIV. “However, these are just indicators which require more investigations to prove their efficacy against the virus,” the don emphasized adding: “The preliminary vaccine was developed by our research colleagues from Sweden. We had to conduct trials locally to find out whether it suits our environment since the viruses are different.” Prof Lyamuya said scientists are still conducting additional studies until it is proven whether or not the serum can start being used for vaccination of human beings. According to the scientist, the first trial dubbed HIVIS-03 spanned between the year 2007 and 2010 where 60 members of the armed force were administered with the trial vaccine but only 42 underwent the whole procedures while others dropped out due to various reasons. The second trial christened Tanzania and Mozambique HIV Vaccine Programme (TAMOVAC-01), was done between 2008 and 2012 involving participants from Tanzania and Mozambique. “In Tanzania 120 participants took part including 60 from Dar es Salaam and the remaining were from Mbeya while Mozambique had 24 people. Fifty eight participants completed all the five stages of the trial in Dar es Salaam and Mbeya, respectively,” he explained. Prof Lyamuya noted further that the third stage of the study, TAMOVAC-II, involved 80 participants at MUHAS, 80 from Mbeya and 40 from Mozambique. The scientist expressed concerns however that the trial was faced with a challenge since many people thought that all those who participated were injected with the virus. Speaking at the Symposium, the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Prof Mohammed Bakari, said the ministry supports MUHAS in undertaking the vaccine trials against HIV.