WOMEN in rural Tanzania have a reason to smile following the launch of a project that seeks to address the scourge of women unemployment and their access to clean energy. Dubbed WE SOLVE (Women Entrepreneurship through Solar Value chain for Economic Development in Tanzania), the four-year project which is a brainchild of BRAC, also seeks to help the government achieve its five year development plan (2017- 2022) of enabling 60 per cent of the population get connected to the grid through sustainable distribution of affordable solar lights. Speaking during the project’s launch at the weekend, BRAC Tanzania Country Representative Mr Fordson Kafweku observed that WE SOLVE project aims to increase employment for women while also reducing the number of households that do not have access to lighting. “The number one objective of this project is to provide enterprise opportunities in the next seven years with 80 per cent of those being for women,” explained the BRAC’s country official. Funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Denmark through Danida and the Signify Foundation from the Netherlands, the project is expected to reach over 260,000 households, which equates to over one million beneficiaries of clean, renewable energy, drastically improving the way families function in rural areas. “It will further improve the incomes and life chances of 261,375 households through increased utilisation of solar lighting,” asserted the BRAC’s Country Representative. The project’s main goal according to Mr Kafweku, is to help the government serve areas which aren’t covered by the grid, and give them source of clean energy through quality solar products. In his remarks delivered on his behalf by a Danida representative Mr Oscar Mkude, Danish Ambassador to Tanzania Mr Einar Jensen observed that poor households in the country use expensive, polluting kerosene for lighting which affects health, income and personal growth. “With this challenge, we saw an opportunity to help in solving their clean energy problems whilst at the same time creating an opportunity for them to earn more income,” explained the Ambassador. According to Mr Jensen, though there is a high demand for solar products, women still found it difficult owning them, and are at times compelled to make do with fake ones. Recent findings have it that 3.5 million households in the country are connected to the national grid. Nonetheless, 8.5 million Tanzanians aren’t connected to electricity.