THE Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS) has handed over a newly constructed and fully equipped disability rehabilitation centre namely ‘KilaSiku’ worth 500m/- to Kinondoni Municipal Council in Dar es Salaam. The centre consists of three medical examination rooms, a rehabilitation and gym room, a training and a meeting room alongside with administration offices and staff rooms. The project manager from Italian Nongovernmental Organisation (NGO) Comunità Solidalinel Mondo (COM.Sol) Roberta Coratella said among other things, the centre would help raise public awareness on disability and training sessions. It will also offer medical examination to patients and development of individual rehabilitation plans and the provision of rehabilitation treatment to patients. “Other advantages will be the provision of assistive devices and increase outreach rehabilitation programmes to patients in collaboration with local authorities and health workers in Kinondoni District,” she explained. The handing over ceremony was presided by Minister for Health Ummy Mwalimu and by Italian Ambassador to Tanzania Roberto Mengoni alongside with representatives of Italian Congregation of Ivrea Sisters and members of the community. Minister of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu stressed the importance of the project and its compliance with health goals and priorities set by the government, commending the IADC for support. “The work done is praiseworthy as it lays the foundation for further strengthening of cooperation between Italy and Tanzania in the health sector. Disability is a priority issue in government plans and strategies in the health sector and efforts will be made to equip each health centre in our country with a rehabilitation ward,” she noted. In his remarks, Mr Mengoni said the centre would contribute to the betterment of disabled people, alleviate their families’ burden and become an essential part of social services provided in this country. “I am very proud of the work done by COM.Sol. Their approach is about community involvement in every phase of the project,” said Mr Mengoni, adding: “Health represents an important sector of intervention and cooperation between Italia and Tanzania. There are several initiatives in the country apart from the All-Inclusive Project funded by AICS with a grant of 3.4bn/-.” The All Inclusive Project is a three-year multi-sectorial initiative aimed at fostering the inclusion of people with disabilities in Dar es Salaam. Rehabilitation services to be delivered by 'KilaSiku' Centre under the Italian project will allow people with disabilities to optimise their communication, mobility and self-care. The benefits of rehabilitation are expected to extend to other areas of life, such as education and employment and 181 children with disabilities have already enrolled in the rehabilitation programme.