KENYAN experts say they have learned from improved water and sanitation services for the urban poor in Tanzania. A team of 12 experts arrived in the country on Monday for a week study tour and had the first guided tour to Vingunguti Sewage Treatment Area in Dar es Salaam, whereby residents in this unplanned settlement had been helped to use modern low cost toilets, a project implemented by the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (Dawasa) in collaboration with the Centre for Community Initiatives (CCI) and CDI. Speaking during a workshop organised by Dawasa and CCI at the headquarters of the water utility in Dar es Salaam recently, Mr James Musheke, who is Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company customer relations officer, wondered how possible the project was implemented in an already populous and unplanned area. After inspecting dozens of the low cost toilets, which are connected to a shallow sewerage network (simplified sewer network), Mr Musheke could not hide his feelings. More than 400 families are connected to the system. “Obviously, this area (Vingunguti) is not planned. But it is quite impressive the way the community was convinced to pave the way for and embraced the project to allow the laying of sewerage pipes,” he noted. The head of the delegation, Ms Kellen Muchira, Caritas Switzerland (Nairobi Office) said facilitation given to residents in form of loans for the construction of the toilets and installment repayment were a big lesson learnt. “In Nairobi we have places like Mukuru Special Planning Area, which is basically dominated by poor urban settlements that need a similar improvement project on water and sanitation. The visit to Tanzania has inspired us to implement such a project home,” she said. For her part, Ms Nancy Wanyingi from Water and Sanitation for Urban Poor (WSUP) in Nairobi was impressed by the active participation of women in the project for sustained hygiene. “We have learnt that through the involvement of women in form of federation groups, identification of champions becomes easy. This has given us an idea on low cost modern toilets can be implemented,” she explained. She added that the practice was quite impressive as it had greatly lowered water borne disease outbreaks in the area for the last three years as confirmed by local health officer Grosta Tibaijuka. “Our visit has been gainful all the way through,” Ms Wanyingi said, when giving a vote of thanks on behalf of others. During presentations under the theme: ‘Mukuru Special Planning Area: Promoting Social Inclusivity Through Adaptive Settlements Planning Model in Kenya’, Mr Patrick Njoroge said it was amazing to have the project implemented in Vingunguti without the eviction of residents. “Mukuru in Nairobi is equally complicated, where people suffer from ‘poverty penalty’. They are obliged to pay more for rent, water, electricity and food. But lessons gained today will help us make a big difference during the implementation of improved sanitary projects,” Mr Njoroge explained. Dawasa Head of Communications and Community Unit Neli Msuya and CCI Director, Dr Timoth Ndezi, expressed appreciation for the visit and called for strengthening of bilateral relations for continued sharing of knowledge on improved sanitation among poor urban settlements. “Improvement of off-grid water and sanitation services is a continued agenda by Dawasa and plans are underway to have more families connected to the system,” the Dawasa head explained. She added that preparations for the construction of off-grid sanitation projects in Dar es Salaam, the projects funded by the government of Tanzania in collaboration with the World Bank were in progress. “The facilities will look similar to Toangoma Faecal Sludge Treatment Plant in Kigamboni,” she explained. Local government Chairman, Vingunguti, Mnyamani Ward, Rahm Sufi Gassi said the visit of Kenyan experts proved the significance of the project in his locality, adding that his office would always act tough against anyone inclined to sabotage the project.