AIR Tanzania Company Ltd is scheduled to start its Katavi Region routes before J une this year, with expectations that it will serve potential customers and tourists diligently in the area. The revelation was made recently here by Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Atashasta Nditiye, adding that the Airport has been inactive, because it lacked fire fighting vehicles. The Deputy Minister, who was in the region for a working tour, further observed that: “The government was at the final stage of purchasing five fire fighting vehicles, and as well as repair several others. “… Mpanda Airport will get one vehicle out of five new fire fighting vehicles and I can assure you that before the end of March this year, our national carrier will start its routes to Mpanda town.” In the course, he appealed to the residents to continue taking care of the airport’s infrastructure, whose construction was officially completed early 2012, at a cost of 30bn/- Equally, Eng Nditiye called upon business people to shift transpiration of their merchandise from using train to the flight, saying there would be more space for their goods. He pointed out that with the emergence of the routine flights to the region, their road transport would be somehow relieved and that would prolong the life span of the tarmac roads in the area. On his welcoming note, the Katavi Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Mr Abdallah Malela briefed the Deputy Minister, saying that the Mpanda Airport was first established by the Urwira Mining Company in 1954 as an airstrip. “Shortly after our country attained independence the Mpanda Airstrip was officially handed over to the government,” he pointed out in his narration. Mr Malela also hinted to Eng Nditiye that in 2009, the government in consultations with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), repaired and constructed a taxiway at the Mpanda Airport at the tarmac level, which was officially opened in 2012 where private planes could land on in the region. “However, the numbers of passengers was unpredictable, because of several reasons including expensive fares, for instance, a single route from Mpanda to Mwanza or vice versa, a passenger was charged 500,000/-,” he said. Presiding over, Mpanda Constituency Member of Parliament (MP), Mr Sebastian Kapufi informed the Deputy Minister that though Katavi National Park in Mlele District is the third – largest Park in the country that offers several animals’ views, it was unfortunate that it was receiving few visitors in comparison to others, because of its poor infrastructures.