TANZANIAN envoys Simba are ready to turn tables as their opponents arrived in Dar es Salaam yesterday night ahead of tomorrow’s clash. Ahead of the clash Simba’s defence received a moral boost when their key defender, Erasto Nyoni confirmed fit to face the Egyptian scare. Prior to the clash, CAF confirmed that referees from Sudan will officiate the match whose the lowest gate ticket is 2000/-. The referees are Mahmood Ali Mahmood Ismail who will be the central referee and will be assisted by Waleed Ahmed Ali and Ahmed Nagei Subahi as the linesmen . Egypt’s Al Ahly arrived in Dar es Salaam yesterday night with the team’s boss saying key players are here to face Simba tomorrow. Simba host Al Ahly in the fourth Group D match of the CAF Champions League at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Among them, according to Al Alhly boss Martin Lasarte are Ramadhan Sobhi and defenders Yasser Ibrahim and Mohamed Shariff. Before the team’s arrival in Dar es Salaam Lasarte unveiled his 21-man squad that will face Simba SC in the return leg tomorrow. Tanzanian envoys Simba host Al Ahly at the Tanzania National Stadium tomorrow with a bitter memory of 5-0 loss to the Reds at Borg El- Arab last week. Al Ahly are currently top of the group with seven points, three ahead of AS Vita Club, and four ahead of the third-placed Simba, while JS Souara languish at the bot- tom of the group with two points. The squad saw the return of defender Yasser Ibrahim after missing out on his side’s last three games due to injury, with Mohamed Sherif also making the list. On the other hand, team captain Hossam Ashour will miss the encounter due to injury as well as Walid Azaro, Ahmed Fathi, Walid Soliman, and Marwan Mohsen. The players who arrived yesterday are goalkeepers: Sherif Ekramy, Mohamed El Shennawy, and Ali Lotfi. defenders: Saad Samir, Rami Rabia, Ayman Ashraf, Ali Maaloul, Mahmoud Wahid, Mohamed Hany, Yasser Ibrahim. Midfielders are Amr El- Sulya, Karim Nedved, Hamdi Fathi, Islam Mohareb, Hussein El-Shahat, Ramadan Sobhi, Nasser Maher, Mohamed Sherif, Hesham Mohamed. Forwards: Salah Mohsen, Junior Ajayi. JS Saoura will on the same day host AS Vita Club of Democratic Republic of Congo in another Group D match in the Algerian capital, Algiers.