TURKISH Airlines continues its partnership with The LEGO Movie franchise with the digital debut as it introduced a new inflight movie. According to a company press release a new fun and original safety video stars characters from the latest big-screen animated LEGO adventure, The LEGO Movie 2, from Warner Bros. Pictures, in theatres worldwide beginning February 8, 2019. Back in August 2018, Turkish Airlines debuted the first-ever LEGO passenger safety video, which was also inspired by the LEGO Movie franchise. The video topped the viral charts with 20 million views in just one month and then brought home the gold at the 2018 Clio Entertainment Awards. In tandem with the release of the eagerly anticipated sequel to the blockbuster hit The LEGO Movie, the Star Alliance airline has now debuted a sequel of their own – a second in-flight safety video featuring LEGO characters, which will be shown on all flights starting March 1, 2019. The second video features Emmet, Lucy and others from the cast of The LEGO Movie 2 in starring roles, with LEGO Batman himself at the helm, as the director of the 4 minute 27 second film. Alongside the animated leads, the safety video also features some of Turkish Airlines’ most exciting and recognizable destinations, bringing some of these 306 destinations – which Turkey’s national flag carrier serves – to life, brick by brick. The video journeys across five continents, visiting Bali, Moscow, San Francisco, Rome, Cape Town, Hong Kong and Tokyo ending finally at Turkish Airlines’ iconic new home at Istanbul Airport. The colourful ensemble from The LEGO Movie franchise can also be seen off screen and in the skies, livening up a specially wrapped narrow body Airbus A321-231 livery, currently serving the European routes of the flag carrier airline. “With one of the youngest fleets in the world, Turkish Airlines continues to build on its peerless brand experience. We are excited to present our passengers with this new innovative safety video as we prepare to make our move to Istanbul Airport, designed from the ground-up to be an unprecedented experience by itself,” said M. İlker Aycı, Turkish Airlines’ Chairman of the Board and the Executive Committee. Production of The LEGO Movie 2 safety video lasted for a total of 979 hours over the course of 4 months and among five different countries including Turkey, the USA, the UK, Canada and Australia. There were over 400 people involved in the creative process – 252 of whom were extras, in addition to the six-strong featured cast in the live action end sequence. The live action crew consisted of over 80 people, while the animation team included almost 70. The new safety video also features 24,000 LEGO mini figures in the crowd for the Super Hero Cape Town match and a whopping 20,330,795 LEGO bricks used to build all the locations in the new video – ten times the amount of bricks used in the first LEGO Movie-themed safety video. Eleven different versions of the new safety video exist, both in English and Turkish, to cover safety particulars of the 28 different airplane models in the Turkish Airlines fleet.