KIBONG’OTO National Infectious Diseases Hospital (KIDH) will be the only centre dealing with chronic Tuberculosis B and HIV, with provision of trainings and services related to the infectious diseases. The Prime Minister, Mr Kassim Majaliwa said here over the weekend that after completion of laboratory construction the hospital generally will be providing information to all hospitals in the country on how to deal with the diseases. The PM was speaking during the occasion to lay the foundation stone of the ongoing construction of a modern biosafety level three laboratory at KIDH. KIDH, formerly known as Kibong’oto National Tuberculosis (TB) Hospital was established in 1926 as a TB sanatorium. Its mission has been provision of quality healthcare services through training, research and innovation and provision of care to clients. The Premier said the government has reiterated its intention of making sure that lack of medicines in hospitals countrywide becomes history. “To make sure this is achieved the government is disbursing 27m/- for purchasing medicines in Siha District,” he said.According to the Prime Minister, in general the government had provided 1.5bn/- for the ongoing construction of Siha District Hospital, with the intention of enabling patients to seek all medical treatments within the district. He urged wananchi to continue trusting President John Magufuli’s administration to enable him perform even better in serving the nation. Earlier, Head of the KIDH Dr Riziki Kisonga said the construction of the laboratory, which started in September last year, has so far reached 45 per cent of its implementation. “This laboratory will be of a three storey building upon completion and is expected to cost 8.86bn/-,” he said. On the challenges facing the ongoing project, Dr Kisonga said there is lack of enough funds to complete the construction. “So far we succeeded in getting 3.33bn/- out of the needed 8.86bn/-, if we get the remaining amount, we will be able to complete the construction works by July, 2020 as planned,” he said. Meanwhile, Premier Majaliwa expressed his dismay over the way Siha District Council Executive Director (DED), Mr Valerian Juwal conducts himself by leaving Kilimanjaro Region without notice or permission. The PM reprimanded the DED, urging him to change immediately or risk disciplinary measures. He said the officer is known for leaving Kilimanjaro Region without getting authorisation from the Regional Administrative Secretary’s (RAS) office. Mr Majaliwa said due to his habit, Siha District Council has ended up collecting a mere 38 per cent of the targeted revenues. He said that is because Mr Juwal has no time to sit down with fellow officials, plan strategies to increase collection or devise means of achieving the targets. He directed the council to collect at least 80 per cent of the revenue target by the end of this fiscal year, cautioning that the target may look impossible if DED continues with his ‘business as usual’ mode.