THIRTEEN people were reportedly killed by crocodiles while 17 others were injured at Kabwe Ward along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in Rukwa Region’s Nkasi District in the past two years. One person is also reported to have been killed at Kabwe Village by hippopotamus. Hippopotamuses have reportedly wreaked havoc to Kabwe and Kirando villagers along the shoreline of Lake Tanganyika in the past two years, invading human settlements and entering into houses with open doors during the day. Kabwe Ward residents have asked the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism to intervene by either harvesting both crocodiles and hippopotamuses or shifting them to Katavi National Park in Mlele District, Katavi Region where they believed to have come from. Kabwe Ward Councillor Asante Lubisha told the ‘Daily News’ over the phone interview that during the past two years, eight women were among the 13 people who were killed by crocodiles, saying the victims were attacked while washing clothes or swimming on the lake. “Among the men who were killed by crocodiles was my younger brother … he was attacked and killed by crocodile while swimming on Lake Tanganyika. The crocodiles have increased in numbers because they are not being harvested... they are wreaking havoc and scaring citizens in the ward,” said Mr Lubisha. He argued that the number of hippopotamuses has increased significantly during the past two years, saying crocodiles are currently seen during daylight in three groups of between 40 and 50 member s. “I reported the matter to the Office of Nkasi District Council Executive Director (DED) via Natural Resources Department, two rangers were deployed to the area but their targets were very poor ....they could not kill even a single hippopotamus,” added Mr Lubisha . Similar sentiment was echoed by the Kirando Ward Councillor Seba Kaluli. A senior officer from Nkasi District Natural Resources Department, Ms Valerian Mwapasi confirmed the existence of large number of hippopotamuses and crocodiles in Kabwe and Kirando wards, adding that traditional hunting of the wild animals at the areas has been banned. “It is true that the number of crocodiles and hippos has significantly increased because there is no professional hunting in the areas and traditional hunting has been officially banned... the exact number of them is yet to be quantified–Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (Tawiri) is responsible for carrying out census of both crocodiles and hippos to have their exact number,” she added. A cross-section of interviewees from both wards expressed their sadness over the huge destruction of their farms by the wild animals, charging that hippos have been invading and getting inside houses.