THE Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews (R&A) of Scotland’s drive to increase the number of women and girls participating in golf has been reflected in early success for the new Women in Golf Charter. The body has also been working tirelessly to encourage more opportunities for women to work within the sport and the efforts are now paying off. However, Tanzania is lagging behind and the country is required to endorse the charter. The country is required to submit its development programmes to the world golf governing body and give its commitment to ratify the charter. Upon ratification of the charter, Tanzania is set to benefit from the world golf body, which will provide support and ensure that women and girls participation in the sport is encouraged in Tanzania. Reports suggest that the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) secretariat is expected to meet soon and deliberate among others, the constitutional amendments and the development of the sport among women in Tanzania. Chief Executive of The R&A the world golf governing body, Martin Slumbers said in press release sent mid this week that, launched last May in London, the Charter set out to inspire an industrywide commitment to developing a more inclusive culture within golf globally. He said that the charter is designed to encourage actions that enable more women and girls to flourish and maximise their potential within the golf industry at all levels. “To date, 107 organisations have given their commitment to the Charter, pledging to build on current initiatives and develop new projects to increase the number of women, girls and families playing golf and becoming members of clubs, as well as giving women wider opportunities to enjoy careers and volunteering in the sport.” These include national federations such as Golf Canada – which held its inaugural Women’s Leadership Summit last year linked to the staging of the CP Women’s Open – Golf Australia; New Zealand Golf; the Italian Golf Federation; England Golf; Scottish Golf; and Wales Golf. He named other organisations who have adopted the Charter include the PGA TOUR; the European Tour; the Ladies’ European Tour; the Professional Golfers’ Association; the Golf Foundation; the PGAs of Europe; the European Disabled Golf Association; the ANNIKA Foundation; IMG; VisitScotland and the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Golf. Mastercard, the official card of The Open, is also the first R&A Patron to sign up. Various other organisations offering their support include the Association of Golf Writers and GOLFNOW according to R& A.