THE government on Monday ordered the submission of all documents related to Horohoro One Stop Border Post (OSBP) construction to the Ministry of Finance and Planning by this Friday for review. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Dr Damas Ndumbaro and his counterpart in the finance ministry Dr Ashatu Kijaji issued the joint directive during their one-day tour of the border post in Mkinga District, Tanga region. They issued the order soon after touring different offices within the building and witnessing challenges that face the post, including lack of working facilities and poor work performance, which they said may result into revenue loss and endanger the safety of the border post. Some challenges which the deputy ministers exposed are lack of ICT fiber cables connectivity between two revenues offices of Tanzania and Kenya, ineffective standby generator due to technical breakdown, four idle Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras, which were fixed in 2015, lack of accurate records of import and export commodities between migration and TRA offices and workers’ poor performance. During their inspection tour of the OSBP, the deputy ministers expressed worries over the centre’s workers whose performance seemed doubtful, with a small assessment revealing that some workers lacked the appropriate skills in what they are working. They also doubted the revenue control and collections as well as security of the border post due to lack of ICT connectivity, failure of the CCTV cameras and manual recording of basic information of import and export goods. Issuing the directive, Dr Ndumbaro said: “It is awkward that the building started operating in 2015 but to date it’s not officially recognised as OSBP…it’s instead referred to as the Border Custom Centre and it was handed over to the government with some of the offices incomplete,” he said. He added “It is risky for the border’s CCTV cameras and some security systems not to function due to technical faults and power cut and unfortunately no action has been taken.” Dr Ndumbaro ordered the officers at the border to submit all necessary documents, including the Bill of Quantity (BOQ), building contract and architectural design of the building to the office of Finance and Planning Deputy Minister in Dodoma by February 15. Dr Kijaji directed Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to establish the revenue desk in all villages in the country’s borders to collect revenues from trespassers and those using the villages’ borders to evade paying government taxes. She directed Tanga TRA Regional Manager Specioza Owure to ensure Mkinga District has the authority’s office to serve wananchi in at least three days a week. The district has no TRA office since it was established in 2006 from Muheza District. Horohoro Border Post TRA Officer In charge Bakari Athumani, responding to the deputy ministers, said they had already submitted the necessary requirements of the centre to responsible authorities. He said in case of power outages, they use manual methods of inspection of goods and recording of all information of passable goods and people into the log book.