WHILE Tanzanians lead in taking up jobs at the 80MW Regional Rusumo Falls Hydro Electric Project (RRFHEP), communities in the three EAC countries expect to benefit from a Local Area Development Plan (LADP). In the project that involves three East African Community (EAC) partner states—Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda—at Rusumo Falls on the common border of Rwanda and Tanzania on Kagera River, Tanzanians have shown shrewdness, with 254 already employed. With the project at its 35 per cent of completion, Rwandans and Burundians trail behind with 231 and 81 employees, respectively. A communiqué from the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program (NELSAP) that was made available to the ‘Daily News’ had it that The Rusumo Project Council of Ministers (CoM), which visited the project site freshly appreciated the progress recorded so far. CoM members who made the tour are Burundian Minister for Energy Engineer Come Manirakiza, Rwandan Minister of Infrastructure, Ambassador Claver Gatete and Tanzanian Minister for Energy Dr Medard Kalemani. They took stock of the power plant construction progress and were pleased, but urged that the project be completed on time. Majority of casual laborers are from the neighbouring districts. The project has established a workers’ camp at five kilometres from Rusumo border in Tanzania that provides casual laborers with the best living and leisure environment after working hours, with well observed environmental social health safety measures for a conducive atmosphere during working time and after work. The hydropower project is under joint development by the three states through a commonly owned Rusumo Power Company Limited (RPCL). The joint development was entered by the three governments through a Tripartite Agreement signed on February 16, 2012. The power production facilities are located entirely on the south side of the bank of the Kagera River in Tanzania while the substation is located on the northern side of the bank of the river in Rwanda. Under NELSAP, the project is in line to have the 80MW Power Plant operational with the Transmission lines by February next year. The overall project implementation status is at about 35 per cent, with civil and electromechanical works making good progress. The first phase of the dam spillway, headrace tunnel, powerhouse excavation works, tailrace channel, switchyard excavation as well as the RPCL residential camp are on the right track. Dr Kalemani is the CoM Chairperson and said there had been some delays in the project, so wanted NELSAP to speed up the work. “We are expecting NELSAP to put in place a recovery mechanism to catch up with the delays made so far,” he stated. Ambassador Gatete said the beneficiary countries need the 80MW Power Plant functional timely while Engineer Manirakiza said the project was of paramount importance to the three countries. He said they would do the needed to enhance timely implementation. The RRFHEP said in the statement that the project has successfully implemented the Livelihood Restoration Program (LRP) for persons affected by the project that started in February 2017 and is on-going and about 670,000 US dollars has been earmarked in Kirehe and Ngara districts. The Local Area Development Plan (LADP) is a benefit-sharing programme worth $15.5m designed to enhance regional economic and social development in Rusumo area as an extended programme related to the construction of the project. LADP is expected to improve community livelihoods and promote socially sustainable outcomes of the riparian citizens of the affected districts. In Tanzania, Ngara District will increase livestock intensification and cattle milk production, bee keeping increase honey production, increase agricultural production for key crops, rehabilitate water systems in four villages—Mshikamano, Kasharazi, Kasulo and Rwakalemela—construction of water supply systems in Rusumo village and support to the Remela Vocational Training Centre. For Burundi, both Giteranyi and Busoni communes are implementing the rehabilitation and extension of water supply systems, the integrated agricultural production for key crops and livestock intensification for cows, goat and pigs as well as soil and water conservation and the construction and support to a youth training Centre. For Rwanda, Kirehe District rehabilitated the 30 kilometres of feeder road in Kigarama and Musaza as well as construction of Kigina Health Centre. Ngoma District is constructing 28.7 kilometres of mixed water supply pipeline to 10,500 people in Gatonde-Gahima cells and 33 kilometres of Gituku-Murama water supply system and 9.54 kilometres of Kigabiro-Rurenge-Gatore Feeder Road awarded.