TANZANIA Premier League Board (TPLB) has suspended two officials for mishandling the Premier League match between Coastal Union and Y oung Africans at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. The board’s Chief Executive Officer, Boniface Wambura unveiled yesterday that the board has issued a three-month suspension to the match’s commissioner, Charles Mchao and referee Nassor Mchui for misconduct. Wambura disclosed that the commissioner has been penalised for submitting a match report with shortfalls while referee Mchui has been punished for a failure to manage the match which ended in a 1-1 draw. In retrospect, TPLB has also slapped a 500,000/- fine to Coastal Union following a misconduct of its five players who were issued yellow cards during the game. Y anga were also fined 200,000/- for using unofficial door to enter the Stadium. During the occasion TPLB also cleared youthful Gustapha Samson to play for Y anga. The board confirmed yesterday that Samson is a legal player for the Jangwani street side. The player played for Yanga during their match against Singida United at the Namfua Stadium in Singida and the teams drew 0-0. Singida United had lodged complaints saying he was not eligible player and pointed him to be serving the First Division League (FDL) side, Dar City FC. Furthermore, TPLB has also punished Mtibwa Sugar striker Salim Kihimbwa for insulting a referee. Kihimbwa ought to pay 500,000/- as a fine and remain out of the pitch for three matches after it was convinced he insulted an assistant referee during their Premier League match against Mbeya City. The board as well issued a two-game ban plus 500,000/- fine to Mbeya City Coach, Ramadhan Nsanzurwimo for blasting the match officials during the game which Mbeya City beat Mtibwa 1-0. Other teams that saw TPLB wrath include Biashara United who have been fined 500,000/- and warning after their supporters attacked an official and a player of Coastal Union during their game in Musoma which the hosts won 3-2. In addition to that, Biashara United’s physician Laurent Maro is required to report to the disciplinary committee of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). The physician is charged of insulting referees when his team played against Azam FC at Azam Complex and United lost 2-1. Meanwhile, the Board has also disclosed that there will be no change of venue when African Lyon host Simba in the February 19 Premier League match at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha. Some sources from African Lyon have been reporting that the game has been shifted to the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam after the club requested to change its venue from Arusha to Dar es Salaam.