THE media fraternity and the government have been extolled for remaining true champions of the rights of people with albinism in Tanzania as the country marks ten years since the establishment of the practical movement against torture and killing of people with albinism in the country. Speaking to reporters here yesterday, the founder of Under The Same Sun (UTSS) Peter Ash commended the collaboration between his organization and the state in reducing atrocities against persons with albinism in the country. According to Mr Ash, a Canadian national and a person with albinism, the media has played a big role in reducing the magnitude of atrocities, particularly killings of people with albinism that became extreme in mid 2000s. “For the last ten years, UTSS has been in good partnership with various government machineries to spearhead the campaigns against torture and killing of people with albinism, and we can now see massive improvement in many areas,” he said. Mr Ash said a lot has been achieved for the last 10 years, including enrollment of more than 400 children with albinism in different schools in the country, with a substantial number of them proceeding and successfully graduating in higher learning institutions. However, he said some challenges have been reported in many workplaces where employers still remain reluctant to offer jobs to applicants with albinism, although in recent years the problem has been slightly reduced. On that, Mr Ash appealed to the business community to provide employment to qualified job seekers with albinism, expressing gratitude to employers who have promised to employ them. Commenting on the performance of members with albinism in the education sector, the UTSS Education Assistant for the Lake Zone, Mr Raymond Muganyizi said out of over 400 students in different schools, 140 were studying in the Lake Zone based schools and are progressing relatively well. But according to him, there were a number of challenges reportedly facing different scenarios, including some of the teachers being ignorant of their condition, and as a result they mistreat them in one way or another. In a symposium held here yesterday, various beneficiaries of UTSS Educational Programs and other social programs gave testimonies on how they benefited from the establishment of the organization which was headed by a veteran journalist, Ms Vicky Ntetema who is now retired.