FOLLOWING the decree by President John Magufuli to evict people who are alleged to have encroached reserve areas countrywide, over 2,000 herds of cattle have been flushed out of Uwanda Game Reserve along the Lake Rukwa Basin in Sumbawanga District. In line with the decree, two pastoralists have been arrested for illegal entry and have been detained since 14 January this year. Recently, President Magufuli directed all reserve areas and forests which are no longer host to wild animals to be identified and allocated to livestock keepers. Secretary of Sumbawanga Union of Livestock Keepers, Mr George Mwita told the ‘Sunday News’ in a telephone interview late yesterday that the seized animals are part of 40,0000 herds of cattle still grazing inside the Uwanda Game Reserve. He said on behalf of pastoralists from the precinct, he was pleading to President Magufuli to allow them to graze their animals in Uwanda Game Reserve since it is home to only two or three elephants, saying that they are ready to pay for the opportunity and promised to conserve the environment in the process. Mr Mwita said due to daily harassment from game wardens from Uwanda Game Reserve, including flushing out herds of cattle and detention, they were requesting the president to allocate them with grazing land in any part of the country. Mr Mwita expressed his despondency following the seizure of the over 2,000 heads of cattle which are currently kept at Nankanga Village, where reports indicate that they are in a poor state because of lack of food, water and treatment. “I admit that we can’t keep all our animals in the village because of their large number, that is why we have clandestinely taken them inside the Uwanda Game Reserve for grazing, and it is estimated that over 40,000 heads of cattle are still inside the game reserve ... some pastoralists bribed their way inside the game reserve for years,” added Mr Mwita. He further said that even regional authorities are aware that thousands of heads of cattle are still grazing inside the Uwanda Game Reserve, adding that even during the exercise of marking cattle, pastoralists were allowed to remove their domestic animals temporarily from the game reserve. Contacted for comments, Kipeta Ward Councillor, Mr Rashid Kalele charged that it is forbidden for domestic animals to encroach Uwanda Game Reserve for grazing, adding that such entry is illegal.