RESPICIUS Patrick Mutazangira (51), who is accused of murdering a Standard Five pupil from Kibeta Primary School in Bukoba Municipal Council, Sperius Eladius [14] (pictured), told the court that he only canned the pupil six strokes on the hands and feet and thought it won’t result in death. Mutazangira, who was testifying as defence witness (DW 1), told Judge Lameck Mlacha that he did not agree with the prosecution evidence, linking him to the murder of the pupil. Led by Bukoba advocate Aneth Rwiza, the accused told the court that he was transferred to Kibeta Primary School on January 8, 2002 and was the school discipline master. He testified that on August 27, last year, in the morning he received complaints from Ms Elieth Gerald (second accused) that she was informed by pupils that Eladius had stolen her wallet containing a mobile phone and 75,000/-. He told the court that he caned Eladius three strokes on the hands and later caned him three strokes on the legs after he found out that Eladius was wearing more than three pairs of shorts contrary to school regulations. “In my opinion, the six strokes of the cane could not have resulted in the death of the pupil,” he said. A pathologist from Bugando Medical Centre (BMC), in Mwanza City, Dr Kahima Jackson (58), who testified as PW 5, told the court that the cause of the death of the pupil was “neuro-genic shock due to blood force injury caused by a blunt object. According to the pathologist, the body of the pupil had multiple bruises that had affected the peripheral nerve system and the central nerve system. Mutazangira also testified that he had sent a Standard Seven pupil, Hamim Haruna, to Anyama Street to call Eladius’ parents, but later decided to go himself accompanied by Eladius. However, during cross-examination by Senior State Attorney Hianico Mlekano, Mutazangira conceded that he was not authorised by the head teacher to administer corporal punishment. Judge Mlacha adjourned the hearing of the murder case No. PI 56/2018 until Monday at 8.30am.