A DIPLOMATIC row is brewing between Kenya and Somalia over ownership of oil and gas blocks in a disputed maritime territorial border. According to Kenya’s Foreign Affairs Ministry, Mogadishu auctioned off the blocks in London a fortnight ago. Kenya’s top Political and Diplomatic Secretary Ambassador Macharia Kamau termed the alleged sale as an illegal grab of the country’s resources which amounts to hostility by a neighbour. “This unparalleled affront and illegal grab of the Kenyan resources will not go unanswered and is tantamount to an act of aggression against the people of Kenya and their resources,” Ambassador Kamau said in a statement. “It is most regretful that the government of Kenya has now arrived at the conclusion that its protest and demands that Kenya sovereignty and territorial integrity be respected have been ignored,” President Kenyatta’s top diplomat added. The feud appears to have degenerated so quickly that Kenya recalled its envoy to Somalia Lucas Tumbo while Somalia’s top diplomat in Kenya was dispatched back to Mogadishu. The move, according to Kamau is geared towards “broadening consultations” over the dispute. “Kenya has summoned its Ambassador to Somalia, Lt General (Rtd) Lucas Tumbo to Nairobi for urgent consultations. The summons is a consequence of the most regretful and egregious decision by the government of Somalia to auction off oil and gas blocks in Kenya’s maritime territorial area,” Kamau noted in the Saturday evening statement. Ambassador Kamau maintained that it was regrettable that despite Kenya’s effort to assist Somalia to regain its footing after years of civil war, it has chosen to act otherwise. Kenya, according to Kamau, plans to move to the International Court of Justice to seek redress on the matter. “Kenya is prepared and ready to defend its territorial integrity at any cost and considers all those directly or indirectly involved, whether Kenyan or non-Kenyan in encroachment of Kenya’s territory as enemies of the state and as adversaries of the Kenyan people,” he warned. But, the Somali government says it is not and does not have any plans to sell oil blocks in the disputed territories for sale until a case before the International Court of Justice is heard and determined. “Somalia government regrets statement by Kenya alleging that the government of Somalia is “proffering to bid” any block in Kenya’s potential maritime zones to external bidders,” read the statement that was sent by Somalia’s Foreign affairs ministry on Sunday evening. The worsening relations between Nairobi and Mogadishu could bode disaster especially given that Kenya hosts over four hundred thousand Somali refugees and asylum seekers in its territory. “This situation cannot be allowed to continue. The patience of the people of Kenya is not infinite,” Kenya’s foreign ministry warned.