YOUNG Africans survived a scare from Coastal Union to salvage a point following their 1-1 draw at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga yesterday. The hosts Coastal Union were reduced to 10 men after their striker Issa Abushehe received marching orders in the 73rd minute for his reckless challenge on Yanga defender Gadiel Michael, who was later substituted for Papy Tshishimbi. The draw has seen Yanga collecting 54 points from 21 games as they head to Singida to face Singida United in their next league fixture. It was Coastal Union who took the lead in the 29th minute of the first half through Haji Ugando as he got the better Yanga defenders before beating goalkeeper Ramadhan Kabwili in the process. However, Yanga laboured to come back into the tense match and managed to equalise in the 76th minute courtesy of Matheo Antony who connected well a through pass from midfielder Thabani Kamusoko. Anthony who started for injured Amis Tambwe, partnered well with Heritier Makambo upfront and the pair missed a couple of scoring chances in both halves of the match. Antony was also the man who scored the winning penalty for Yanga during the Azam Sports Federation Cup tie against Biashara United last Thursday at the National Stadium in the city. Yanga won 5-4 after spot kicks. The goal gave Yanga momentum as they started to push more men upfront hoping to get the winning goal, but that was hard to come by. Yanga Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera was the first to make substitution in the 49th minute when Feisal Salum was forced out of the action after colliding with Coastal Union player hence it was the turn for veteran midfielder Haruna Bobani to command the midfield section for the remaining minutes. Again, skipper Ibrahim Ajib was benched in the 70th minute for Deus Kaseke who helped to bring his side to life as they anxiously needed to get something tangible from the difficult away territory. Both teams played with confidence desperate to win and collect maximum three points in the league. Following series of goal searching moves, Yanga’s striker Makambo had a goal disallowed in the 8th minute of the match for an offside ruling which was a relief to the hosting side. Again, Yanga had a half-scoring chance few minutes later as Thabani Kamusoko had a good run inside the box but his last shot went a few inches off target. Captain Ibrahim Ajib who leads in terms of goal assists (19) was instrumental in the first half of the match launching several good balls upfront of which failed to get through the concrete defence of the hosts as they were well protected by Bakari Mwamnyeto and Adeyum Salehe. As the whistle to end the first half of the match sounded, it was Coastal Union who went into the dressing room heads up looking to kill the game in the second half. Coastal Union Coach Juma Mgunda changed his starting lineup in the 72nd minute when he introduced Deogratius Antony for the goal scorer Haji Ugando.