IT’s all systems go as the seasonal opener, Maji Poa Rally is expected to thrill with a Super Special Stage (SSS) showdown this afternoon at the Tanganyika Packers ground in Kawe, Dar es Salaam. The first round of the National Rally Championship (NRC), Maji Poa Rally thrills will shift to Mwongozo area in Kigamboni tomorrow, after the end of today’s special stage, according to the organisers Dar es Salaam Motor Sports Club (DMSC). Through the Chief of the Organising Committee, Erfan Aladin, Maji Poa Rally which serves as the season opener, is anticipated to be the most adventurous event with dozens of ‘fast and furious’ cars including Mitsubishi Evos, Subaru Impreza and Ford Fiesta revving -off at Mwongozo area of Kigamboni District. Erfan Aladin said the confirmed super special stage at Kawe will enable spectators to watch closely cars and drivers in dare-devil actions. According to Aladin preparation for the area where the short circuit event will be staged is complete. He said he expects over twenty five entries from Dar es Salaam and five other regions of Tanzania to vie for the event’s diadem. One of the sensational entries is Hussein Suleiman ‘Magunia’ who said the short circuit stage is ideal for him and his car. Magunia, who is one of two members of Pandya Rally team, added that he fears no one since he is sure to grab one of the top positions. Other notable entry is Nadeem Daudi, who said his sole aim is to clinch this year’s national championship. “I will be with Maisam Fazal as a navigator in ultrafast Mitsubishi Evos 10. With his experience we are sure to perform wonders this year,” he said. Also confirmed his participation is Ahmed Huwel from Iringa, the 2018 National Rally Champion. The national level rally returns to Kigamboni after hosting two successful events last year. The club’s Chairman, Salim Haji Bullet informed the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the choice of Kigamboni aimed at giving residents of the area real excitement of the wheeling business. “Motor rally is one of the best entertaining outdoor sports, therefore, I hope sport’s fans and residents of Kigamboni will enjoy watching drivers in spectacular actions in the area’s environs,” said Haji.