PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed leaders at all levels to identify parents and guardians, who hide children with disabilities and take legal action against them. Addressing residents during the launch of St Pamachius Inclusive School in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Region, yesterday he said keeping disabled children indoor was denying the children their basic right to education. Mr Majaliwa, who represented President John Magufuli, said there was no reason for children with disabilities to fail to go to school because the government had done everything good to ensure they got education and other services like any other children. “May I take this opportunity to warn parents and guardians, who hide children with disabilities that they won’t be tolerated and that they should ensure they send them to school,” he warned. He hailed the Catholic Church, which owned and ran St Pamachius Inclusive School for the provision of education in the country, saying what the church was doing at St Pamachius Inclusive School motivated children with disabilities to continue with their education after primary education. Mr Majaliwa also hailed the Catholic Church in general for its contribution to improve the education sector in the country, saying what the church was doing complemented government efforts to improve education. However, the Prime Minister called upon private and religious organisations in the country to find the best way of coming up with affordable charges for services they offered to members of the public such as health and education. The premier said the charges for the services offered must be realistic in the sense that they should match incomes of members of the public. “The government wants to ensure Tanzanians get quality social services by properly regulating services, but unfortunately some stakeholders feel the government is oppressing them by issuing tough conditions,” Premier Majaliwa said. Speaking on education, the Prime Minister said regulatory measures instituted by the government aimed at controlling its quality, saying it was imperative for all stakeholders to abide by laws, rules and guidelines. He said the provision of quality education to Tanzanians was one of the priorities to achieve the sustainable development goals, especially education for all and poverty eradication. “The number of primary schools found in the country has risen to 17,659 of which 204 of them are under the Catholic Church. The number of secondary schools has escalated to 4,883 of which 266 are under the Catholic Church, 33 of them under the Catholic Diocese of Moshi,” the Prime Minister said. Founder of the school, Archbishop Isaac Amani of the Archdiocese of Arusha, said the idea of introducing the school was to ensure children with disabilities got higher education after primary education. “This school is a new hope for children with disabilities that now they can access higher education for the betterment of their future lives. A student from this school, Joseph Joachim, who has no hands, but can do all necessities, including writing and eating using his leg, is a clear example of the current success and future success of this school,” said the archbishop. He thus urged well-wishers to continue contributing for the school’s ongoing improvements so that it could continue to serve children with disabilities. Earlier, the head of the school, Fr Patrick Asanterabi, said the facility was registered in February last year and commenced its operations early this year with 74 students. “St Pamachius Inclusive School will provide computer and commercial subjects and to start with we have been licenced to provide education from Form One to Form Four (Ordinary Level studies),” he said, adding, future plans include upgrading the school to become a high school (Form One to Form Six).