FEED the Future Tanzania Advancing Youth, a youth-led body working at district, regional and national levels, has facilitated establishment of 201 youth-led microenterprises in the past one year. Under the auspices of US government’s Global Hunger and Food Security Initiative, the youth body carries out the programme that connects the youth to job opportunities in Iringa, Mbeya and Zanzibar regions. US Agency for International Development (USAID) Deputy Director, Office of Economic Growth, Michelle Corzine, speaking at a recent breakfast panel meeting here, said that microenterprises have also created 41 informal jobs during the period. “Feed the Future Tanzania Advancing Youth through its programme develops tailor-made interventions and works through a network of grantees to connect the youth with livelihood opportunities based on their interests, aspirations and capabilities,” she said. The meeting convened under the theme Youth Accelerating Agribusiness: Bold actions for a bold generation, was part of the just ended Fifth Annual Agriculture Policy Conference. Ms Corzine informed that the Feed the Future Tanzania Advancing Youth activity connects the youth to entrepreneurship training, technical skills building, leadership development, healthy lifestyle, cultivation and employment opportunities. “The activity aims at increasing income opportunities for 21,500 young people through rigorous, professional training and matching the youth to formal and informal jobs,” she added. Ms Corzine observed that for Tanzania to reap the benefits of its growing youth population and achieve the goals of its development agenda it was more important to provide the youth with skills, training and resources they need to make contribution into the economy. According to Feed the Future Tanzania Advancing Youth Programme Manager, Ms Ngasuma Kanyeka, the youth body collaborates with local government, private sector, civil society organisations and young people themselves to change youth perceptions by developing professional and leadership skills among young people aged 15-35. She said the programme connects the youth to opportunities across its three main objectives, pointing out the objectives as increasing entrepreneurship and workforce readiness skills among the youth and strengthening leadership and positive youth development. “The programme also facilitates to enhance life skills for health living and planning among young people,” she said. Ms Kanyeka noted that in order to achieve the objectives of the programme, Feed the Future Tanzania Advancing Youth uses a demand-driven approach adapted to meet the most pressing needs within the private sector, government and workforce. Launched in 2018, Feed the Future Tanzania Advancing Youth ensures project activities are youth centred and tackle the realworld challenges facing rural youth in the country.