PRESIDENT of United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA) Siim Kiisler has said in efforts to manage wastes, including marine littering, it is being proposed that all countries impose a ban on ‘single use plastic bags.’ He revealed the proposal yesterday at a meeting with the Zanzibar authorities before officiating at the reception of Flip flopi Dhow or boat at Forodhani sea front gardens. The boat, which started from Lamu in Kenya, is sailing around coastal areas advocating the recycling and reusing of single use plastics. “Waste management and marine littering are still serious problems in many countries. We have talked a lot with many slogans, but now it is time for action. Single use plastic bags should be banned in all countries by 2025 or six years from now,” said. Mr Kiisler, who doubles as Estonia’s Minister for Environment, told the meeting held at the Second Vice-President’s Office in Stone Town that the proposal would be presented at the next UN environment assembly in Nairobi in March, this year. UNEA, currently comprising 193 member states, is the governing body of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the world’s highest-level decision-making body on the environment. During the meeting with Minister of State (Environment) Mohamed Aboud, Zanzibar’s Director of the Department of Environment Farhat Ali and other officers, Mr Kiisler laid emphasis on global commitment against environmental and marine pollution with plastics similar to ongoing initiatives to address climate change. Before meeting Zanzibar’s Second Vice-President Seif Ali at the House of Representatives building followed by the reception of Flip flopi Dhow carrying anti-plastics campaigners led by boat manufacturer Ali Abdalla Skander, Minister Aboud and Director Farhat said Zanzibar had been moving on well in protecting the environment as it was the first country in the region to ban the single use plastic bags. Mr Seif thanked the UNEA and the Flip flopi delegation for choosing to reach Zanzibar, hoping that it would boost the campaign against the use of plastics and inappropriate waste disposal.