LAND disputes have considerably gone down in three districts of Morogoro Region, thanks to the ongoing Land Tenure Support Project (LTSP). According to Morogoro Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Clifford Tandale, the three-year LTSP pilot project which kicked off in 2016 in Ulanga, Malinyi and Kilombero districts, had recorded a tremendous achievement in solving land disputes. According to him, residents in those districts had their land surveyed in a bid to help people access title deeds and proper management of their land. Mr Tandale however asked the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development to extend the programme further to Mvomero, Morogoro Rural and Kilosa districts where land disputes were still tense. The three-year programme that expects to be completed this year is under the ministry, which took part in the design and is also coordinating the implementation. The programme is funded by the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID), together with copartners SIDA (Sweden) and DANIDA (Denmark). LTSP coordinator, Godfrey Machabe, said so far, 127 villages had been surveyed and owners of land had been issued with title deeds and that 276,000 land parcels were surveyed. Mr Machabe said proper implementation of the programme had so far made information on land records and processes of land allocation publicly available, and clarify and address current constraints to protecting legitimate land claims. “Ultimately, these measures have strengthened security of tenure, contributing to growth in agricultural production and more and better-planned investment in urban infrastructure, including housing. Speaking during the official opening of a two-day stakeholders meeting held in Dodoma yesterday, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development, Mathias Kabunduguru said un-surveyed land causes a lot of challenges, including endless land-related disputes and development of squatters in urban areas and village centres. “Un-surveyed land equally causes insecurity of land tenure and misinforms the contribution of the land sector to socio-economic development,’’ he said, adding that they also deny land holders economic opportunities that may arise from land ownership such as access to financial services as that land cannot be used as a collateral. According to Mr Kabunduguru, statistics in the ministry show that out of the country’s area of 948,132 square kilometers, only 104,295 square kilometers were surveyed. “This is a small area given the fact that with the population growth rate standing at an average of 2.7 per cent, the need for surveying more plots is enormous as the government endeavours to ensure that all land parcels are surveyed. Tanzania’s Development Vision 2025 aims to transform Tanzania into a middleincome country by 2015. But the combination of population growth, rising global demand for agricultural commodities, urban expansion, the growing wealth of urban Tanzanians, East African regional integration and the rising number of international investors in agriculture has increased pressure on land in recent years.