THREE medical universities, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Science (MUHAS), Catholic University of Health and Allied Sciences (CUHAS) and Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College (KCMUCo) are teaming up to create and adopt a common competency based curriculum for health based education in the country. It is a five-year project that intends to cover gaps witnessed by health stakeholders, since currently, the graduates produced by the medical colleges lack a common ground. Dubbed Transforming Health Education in Tanzania (THET), the project aims at enhancing, standardising and delivering competence based curricula starting with medical and nursing education and later including other areas such as pharmacy, laboratory and dentistry. The project will include health stakeholders like hospitals, Medical Council of Tanganyika and Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) who point out what was missing and needed in the curricula so that they get the required staff that they can hire. “From this meeting, a general curriculum will be formed that will be used as a foundation in all health universities, starting with the medical and nursing sector and later improved to other domains like pharmacy, dentistry, laboratory so they are able to offer services in cities and villages,” noted Director of Continuing Education and Professional Development at MUHAS, Dr Doreen Mlokathe, adding: “There are those basic foundation skills that every doctor or nurse needs to acquire, a base that is not set till present,” she said, adding that, even TCU has not set the standard qualification that a doctor or nurse graduating in bachelors needs to have what we call core common competence, hence the creation of a curriculum that will clearly state these things and every graduate will be able to be examined by a standard test.” The project intends to create a standard general exam that will test every graduate before they are licenced to provide services, she asserted. “Currently curricula are varying depending on the universities, causing variation in competence as well, something which restricts us from having such examination to test the competence standard of graduates,” said Dr Mloka “When curricula vary it creates graduates with different standards where some universities may create more competent graduates than others when it comes to providing services,” she commented. The project focuses on graduates to be able to do certain things basing on the level of education they have achieved. “This is just a basic curriculum that will be dispersed to all health universities where they are allowed to add things to the curricula depending on what they are interested in as an independent university,” she noted. She affirmed that the project wants to create graduates who are skilled including the knowledge, skills and character needed for a professional person. It is expected that during the first five years, the universities together with stakeholders and alumni, will hold meetings so that they identify the gaps found in the recent university curricula. The initial meetings with over 60 health stakeholders will commence tomorrow. “After the meeting we will create an initial curricula which will be discussed and finally create the final draft that is expected to be complete by the fourth year of the project and will be sent to TCU for registration and finally be used starting with the three universities as a pilot study,” she further explained. “THET project that is in collaboration with two United States partners, including University of California at San Francisco (UCSF) and Duke University, will be sponsored by Forgarty International Centre through National Institute for Health (NIH) which is granted a donation of 600,000 US Dollars every year for the duration of five years, commented MUHAS Vice Chancellor Prof Ephata Kaaya. The project, among other things, aims to enable lecturers impart knowledge to the students properly and create capable professionals in conducting research, as well as incorporate the use of ICT in the health sector. “We did not put emphasis on improving research abilities in our teachings, especially in students during their studies, but it is an important sector and we have started teaching research while in class instead of waiting until they graduate because researches are what offer solutions and answers to challenges facing the community and health sector,” he said, adding that the project will also help improve educational research. After completion of the project, it is expected that graduates will have improved abilities and competence with required skills for them to work in an environment of any health centre in the country, in urban centres or remote villages.