WITH speculations continues that Simba are finalizing deal to hire Burundian, Ettiene Ndayiragije as Assistant Coach, the KMC tactician has won the coach of the month for January. The Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) through the Awards Committee has also picked Alliance FC player, Dickson Ambundo, to be the best player of the month for January. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the duo won basing on their impressive run at their respective clubs during the month. Ndayiragije saw off a challenge from Alliance FC Head Coach, Malale Hamsini and Biashara United Head Coach, Amri Said. During the month, the Burundian led his team to win four league matches, in which they racked maximum 12 points, to scale from 10th position to third slot on the log. The committee also picked Ambundo as the best player of the month, beating goalkeeper, Juma Kaseja of KMC and Coastal Union striker, Ayoub Lyanga. Ambundo featured in five matches for Alliance during the month of January, helping his term to haul 11 points after winning three matches and registering two draws. He scored three goals. Young Africans made a clean sweep of December awards in which, Congolese striker, Heritier Makambo emerged Player of the Month, while Congolese tactician, Mwinyi Zahera won the coach of the month. The duo won similar accolades for the month of November and they picked from where they had left to win December top honours. Simba striker, Emmanuel Okwi secured the Mainland Premier League player of the month award for October after a string of good performances in the league. The Uganda hit-man beat Azam FC striker, Yahya Zayd and Eliud Ambokile of Mbeya City who were nominated by the Award Committee of the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB). Mbeya City’s Eliud Ambokile won the September award, while Meddie Kagere of Simba won the August award. Coaches who won the award and the respective month in bracket are Amri Said of Mbao FC (August), Mwinyi Zahera of Yanga (September), Azam’s Hans Pluijm (October) and Mwinyi Zahera (November).