TWENTY five coaches from various football academies and over 120 youths benefited from a one-week training conducted by experts from Germany at the Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (JMK) Youth Park. The German coaches; Martin Hammel and Andreas Pach arrived in Tanzania on February 6th through ITK Pathfinder Project 2019 of the Leipzig University of Germany. The professional footballer Yussuf Poulsen is the patron of the project. Yussuf Poulsen, a Danish footballer whose father is a Tanzanian from Tanga, features for RB Leipzig football club of Germany. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Chairman of Magnet Youth Sports Organisation (MYSO), Tuntufye Mwambusi said MYSO coordinated the project whose aims are to train coaches of the youth teams and develop sport management skills to the local coaches. “They conducted one-week training from February 8th to 15th to local coaches and young players from separate academies based in Dar es Salaam. They also used their trip to promote sports tourism in the country,” he said. He noted the project is sustainable and more foreign coaches are scheduled to come in the country in June and July this year. He further added that the project will help to boost development of football in the country. The Chairman of Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), Thomas Mihayo said in a bid to promote tourism sector in the country, MYSO management contacted TTB about involving foreign coaches who can be also used to attract tourists to visit natural attractions found in the country. “While in the country the coaches visited and climbed Mount Kilimanjaro and then Manyara, Ngorongoro and Tarangire national parks. I hope they will be our good ambassadors in promoting our tourist attractions,” he said. He further added that TTB has already named Poulsen as its ambassador in promoting Tanzanian tourism and its attractions abroad. Poulsen is expected to come after the end of the league. On his part Coach Martin Hammel said he has enjoyed to much watching the Kariakoo Derby between Young Africans and Simba Sports Club last Saturday. “I wondered to see the fans of these teams enjoying the game and joked at each other peacefully without being aggressive, something rarely seen in Germany where fans turn the derbies into hostility,” he said.