THE Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Amos Makalla has given a three day ultimatum to over 300 people who allegedly invaded the 3,000 acres of land allocated for construction of military radar to move from the precinct. Over 300 small-scale miners are alleged to have invaded 3,000 acres of land at Company Hill in Mpanda Municipality, illegally carrying out mining of construction materials without legal licences. The 3,000 acres of land has been allocated to Tanzania People’s Defence Force (TPDF) since 1993 for construction of the military radar. The RC ordered the invaders to vacate the area by tomorrow (Monday), warning that those who are defiant will be dealt with accordingly. Mr Makalla accompanied by members of the regional security and defence committee made a surprise visit to the area and found hundreds of invaders engaging in mining activities. “I have given them a three day ultimatum until Monday (tomorrow), all of you (invaders) have to vacate the area, because after that I don’t want to see invaders carrying out mining activities since you are here illegally, this area belongs to TPDF since 1993,” reacted the RC. Earlier, the Katavi Region Militia Advisor, Colonel Ernest Lyimo briefed the RC that the 3,000 acres of land is legally owned by TPDF, adding that over 300 people have invaded the area and must be kicked out of the precinct meant for construction of the military radar. “The area legally belongs to TPDF, and small-scale miners who have invaded the precinct must vacate the area before we flush them out by force, because they are carrying out mining activities without having either legal licences or permits,” he said. A cross-section of ‘invaders’ interviewed by the ‘Sunday News’ maintained that they are carrying out mining activities on the land allocated to TPDF legally since the Katavi regional mine office in Mpanda Municipality has already issued eight mining licences. “TPDF had previously abandoned this area, but when they came back they found us (small-scale miners) doing mining activities on this land because we have legal licences issued by the relevant authority,” added one of the miners who preferred anonymity. Another miner, Said Magole, said he was saddened by the directive issued by the RC, saying that most of them were entirely depending on mining activities for their daily income and survival. On his part, the Katavi Regional Resident Mine Engineer, Sudian Chilagwale admitted to have issued eight mining licences to small-scale miners, insisting that after they expired they were never renewed. “I admit that we issued mining licences to gold and silver small-scale miners only, we have never issued mining licences for mining construction materials here on this land, all 300 people who are mining construction materials here are doing it illegally and must be removed from the area,” added Eng Chilangwile.