MANY young sports writers have frequently asked me the significant changes I have noticed in soccer from the time I was playing it more than four decades back. When I was an active soccer player way back in the 1950s and 1960s the size of the players from both teams almost matched in almost all positions. In those days all teams used a 2-1-2-5 formation (goalkeeper, two full backs, centre half, two half backs and five forwards – two inside players, two wings and centre forward). The pattern of the game was known as W. In the past it was very easy to know the position of the players; big lads (like Omari Zimbwe and Abdulla Luo of Tanga , Kitwana Manara and Mohamed ‘Tall’of Dar es Salaam Simba) used to play at centre-half and centre-forward. Their height gave them an advantage when defending or trying to score during corner kicks. The hard tackling lads of the type of Mohamed Chuma of Mtwara, Mweri Simba of Tanga played at full-back while the bright lads like Maulidi Dilunga, Haidari Abeid, Abdulla Kibaden (Dar`es Salam) and Hemedi Seif of Tanga played at inside forward. Those who were uncompromising and bright in reading the game played at wing-half, and the small, but fast running players such as Hamisi Mtoto, Salim Ali Jinni, Willy Mwaijibe and Aziz of Dar es Salaam, Nassor Mashoto, Suleiman Nyanga and Salhina Maftaha of Zanzibar played on the wings. However, there were exceptions at the wings. At times players who were tall and slim like Haji Lesso and Abrahman Lukongo of Dar es Salaam or heavyweights like Emmanuel of Dar es Salaam took the wings. It was a tradition for left-footers to play on the left and right-footers to take the right positions. Wingers used to disappear for a while, and looked relaxed almost like a museum piece, unlike today when they are all over the place, even in front of their goals when corners are taken against their teams. Interestingly, the current tendency is for them to play on the other side; those using the right foot play on the left and those who use the left foot move to the right flank. Nowadays, wingers have become known as inside-out wingers and not those who are always on the edge of the ground and waiting to get at the ball and run with it to the corner flag and release a high volley to the goalmouth. Nowadays we have defending and attacking midfielders who just like the forwards go all out to score. One of the best examples is Yaya Toure of Ivory Cost who used to play with Manchester City and is now with Olympiacos of Greece. Nowadays players of the left positions usually drift infield on to their right and vice versa. This tactic which started in Brazil and later in Argentina is so effective and is now applied by many teams. The off side rule is believed to be behind the main reason for teams to slowly shift away from the 2-3-5 formation to more than a half a dozen systems now being used. Many coaches now consider inside passing is more deadly than what they call the senseless system of yester years of the wings running along the lines and centering just in front of the goalmouth where chances for penetration are slim. After the World War Two there was admiration of wingers such as Stanley Matthews of England, Rashidi Yakini of Nigeria and Hamisi Mtoto and Salim Ali Jinni of Tanganyika, Kadenge of Kenya and Denis Obua, Tamaligwe and Kalibala of Uganda. The spectators enjoyed seeing the wingers running to the corner flag and releasing a high ball for a scramble at the goalmouth. We used this system in Tanzania for a long period, especially by the most admired wingers of that time like Awadh Gessani and Omari Hussein, Willy Mwaijibe and Abbas Dilunga of Dar es Salaam, Hija Saleh, Suleiman Nyanga, Salhina Maftah and Nassor Mashoto of Zanzibar. Later came different formations, but in reality many teams set aside the culture of depending on individual skills. Instead, they embarked on collective play, now known as total football which was created by the Netherlands legend Johan Cruff (the great number 14) and applied by his country’s national team in the 1974 World Cup finals in West Germany. England’s most respected coach Alf Ramsey who led his team to win the 1966 World Cup at Wembley was given the credit of developing the 4-4-2 to replace the 4-1-3-2 formation which was the most preferred formation by many teams world-wide at that time. Then we saw the lop-sided 4-3-3 formation of the 1970s created by Brazilian coach Mario Zaggallo. Its best results was the superb performance of the famous Brazilian trio of Pele, Jairzinho and Tostao upfront which won the world cup in Mexico after thrashing a well drilled Italian side 4-1in the final. Dribbling was then and until now considered as the best way of disrupting the opponents who used the 4-4-2 system. Nowadays the centre forwards run around three to four times more than their predecessors. For example, players of the class of Ronaldo or Messi go back into their own half and later return in full force to unleash a counter attack. This system of the wide forward is hard to combat and gives the striker wider opportunities to score goals, as well as perform as playmakers and create space for attacking full-backs. As we have seen, soccer has undergone many changes and some of those recent proposed which have been thrown into the dustbin, at least for now, is the scrapping off of the off-side rule. All the modifications were aimed at making the game more attractive and competitive. But the number one objective is to win a game when the final whistle is blown. As far as development of soccer in Tanzania is concerned, while others run we are still walking. We have to ask ourselves what changes need to be made in our system or play so that we can also run like others. Let us discuss and come out with suggestions which would give us a smile at the end of an international match. We must stop lamenting and blame one another and instead feel obliged to help bring changes which would make us happy at the end of every match.  The writer is a former Sports Editor of the Daily News and member of the National Sports Council of Tanzania, who covered local and international competitions at home and abroad, and at times traveled with clubs and Taifa Stars as an official of the teams.