SOUTH Sudan’s full integration into the East African Community (EAC) is well on course, with the EAC Secretariat conducting a one-day sensitisation mission in Juba recently. EAC Director of Productive Sectors Jean Baptiste Havugimana led the mission that explored the preparedness of the world’s newest nation to get fully integrated in the regional economic bloc. It also featured EAC experts from the departments of agriculture and food security, energy, industry and SMEs development, tourism and wildlife management, environment and natural resources management. It also attracted high level policy makers and technical officers drawn from key ministries in South Sudan. Speaking during the mission, Mr Havugimana described South Sudan as a valuable and strategic member of the community. “If sustainably exploited, resources in the country could contribute significantly to increased trade and socio-economic development of the community,” explained the EAC official. Director General Ministry of Trade and Industry and East African Affairs in South Sudan Leo Okwahi underscored the tremendous potential associated with productive sectors in the country. He thanked the EAC Secretariat for organising the visit and for choosing this very hands-on and customised approach for South Sudan. “Such visits are much needed to try to match actions of EAC productive sectors with the real situations prevailing in those sectors on the ground in the country,” he noted. He underscored the fact that the country’s protracted civil war had led to among others loss of lives, displacement of people, stoppage of all activities in productive sectors and other economic and social sectors as well as undermining the country’s progress since it gained independence eight years ago. Mr Okwahi was however optimistic that the peace agreement signed in 2018 was crucial for political stability and socio-economic development of the country. During the event, EAC Secretariat team made elaborate presentations of key flagship programmes implemented under the productive sectors as well as backward and forward linkages across the productive sectors and other socio-economic segments. They highlighted in great details achievements and success stories registered so far while indicating where and how they think South Sudan could be immediately involved to achieve quick wins. Of note, during the mission was South Sudan’s revival of Agriculture and Livestock Sectors based on the EAC Food and Nutrition Strategy and Action Plan. Agriculture is said to be the country’s main stay of the economy and South Sudan was self-reliant in food and nutrition security until civil strife disrupted the sector. Currently, the country depends largely on imports of all sorts of food from the north Sudan, Uganda and Kenya. “In addition, the huge livestock population in the country could be exploited to increase household incomes in areas like dairy production, meat processing and hides and leather value addition,” noted the observers during the one-day mission. Though it boasts of vast energy reserves including oil, South Sudan’s energy sector is underdeveloped and under exploited. According to the observer mission, the little available electricity in Juba and other urban areas is produced using costly diesel generators. “The EAC power pool and the ongoing interconnections arrangements can benefit South Sudan to mitigate this challenge. Solar energy can help solve much of this problem especially for urban households,” offered the experts. In 2016, South Sudan became the sixth member of the EAC block after President Salva Kiir signed an ascension treaty in Tanzania’s commercial capital, Dar es Salaam. The country, is however yet to be fully integrated into the community.