TANZANIA Cooperative Development Commission (TCDC) has urged cooperative unions to introduce agricultural input loans to its members to boost agricultural production in the country. Speaking at a recent meeting with TCDC members, Dr Titus Kamani, who is the TCDC chairman, said agricultural input soft loans would economically empower members of the cooperative unions. “This will enable members of the cooperative unions to stop seeking unprofitable loans from some financial institutions, which enter agreements with them to repay in terms of crops after harvest,” said the TCDC chairman. Dr Kamani noted that TCDC was committed to transforming cooperative unions to address challenges facing them, especially prices, which did not reflect current economic changes. “We have been appointed at a time most members of the cooperative unions have lost hope in the unions due to some dishonest leaders. We have to restore hope to cooperative union members,” he stressed. Dr Kamani insisted that cooperative unions should advance members’ interests, saying selling of produce through cooperative unions was profitable to farmers. “Cotton, for instance, was sold at 1,000/-by farmers, who are not members of cooperative unions. But after joining the cooperative unions they are selling cotton at 1,200/-,” he said. Dr Kamani further said those, who had usurped cooperative unions properties should immediately return them to the unions as per government’s directives or else they would face the wrath of law. For his part, Cooperative Unions Registrar Tito Haule said cooperative unions were facing a number of challenges, among them being lack of reliable market for crops and misappropriation of cooperative union funds by dishonest leaders. “TCDC has developed a strategic plan to address the challenges facing cooperative unions,” said the registrar, who also doubles as TCDC executive secretary. Mr Haule explained that TCDC teamed up with some institutions involved in agricultural investment to implement a strategic plan aimed at addressing the challenges facing the cooperative unions. “We have started undertaking action against dishonest leaders of the cooperative unions, including removing them from leadership and taking them to court,” he said. Mr Haule noted that TCDC had discovered a massive loss of funds and properties of the cooperative unions after investigation and those implicated in the misappropriation of funds and abuse of office would face legal action.