THE government will refocus its efforts and work with various partners to address challenges facing the dairy industry in the country, besides supporting farmers to have access to both domestic and international markets, which have not fully been tapped. The assurance was made to livestock keepers and farmers in the country by the Minister of Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Luhaga Mpina while opening a two-day global conference on creating sustainable, competitive and visionary Tanzania’s Dairy sector in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He said Tanzania has vast area and climate that favour rearing of cattle for various dairy products. While thanking NMB bank, Global Dairy Platform (GDP), Rabo Partnership and International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) for organising the global conference in the city, the minister said that the meeting provides an exceptional opportunity for delegates to interact and deliberate on any possible initiative championed by the government, agribusinesses, as well as other partners to support Tanzania dairy sector. He hinted that the experience from the participants will provide unique insight into issues affecting the sector and ideas on how to develop within the framework of existing plans and policies that can better support the industry for the benefit of the farmers and country in general. “The government is open to initiatives that bring relevant stakeholders together to create a comprehensive action plan covering the whole dairy value chain and lead to sustainable development of the local dairy sector,” Mr Mpina pointed out. NMB Bank Senior Manager in Agribusiness Department Carol Nyangaro assured that the bank’s commitment to support the growth of agriculture in the country will be sustained, especially in value chain. “As the leading agro bank in the country, NMB is committed to agriculture financing, presently our 30 to 40 per cent portfolio goes to supporting agriculture, the goal is to expand the scope and ensure more businesses and individuals, especially those in rural communities, have access to our agricultural financial services,” he added. He said the bank’s loan to the agriculture sector will reach 500bn/- in the near future from the current 100bn/-, with the roundtable discussion which they believe will bear good results, adding: “Our financing will be a big boost in the improvement of the dairy sector.” He expressed hopes that the conference with global focus and assistance of stakeholders from The Netherlands, US, Germany and Sweden amongst others, where the industry is contributing a lot in their nations, will share with Tanzanians on how to improve the sector. “We must share ideas on how research in totality, can address our challenges in the growth of the industry because dairy products cure stunting growth, wasting and also act as a source of livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of Tanzanians to eke out a living,” added Nyangaro. “NMB bank is well focused to utilise the market opportunities in the agribusiness in Tanzania by focusing on value chain for different crops. Our products range from upstream to downstream in financing from individual farmers, small, medium, large and cooperatives including agriculture input supplies, agro processors, traders and exporters to all them to grow. This is in line with efforts to reduce poverty and enhance income generation for the population of which 75 per cent of its people are engaged in agriculture value chain,” he said.