AT least 50 new fully equipped ambassadors from all over the country have been trained on skills to identify and refer women with fistula for treatment. The Community Health Workers (CHWs) and other stakeholders from public institutions were trained by the Vodacom Tanzania Foundation in collaboration with CCBRT in Dar es Salaam yesterday, and are expected to use M-Pesa system to transfer funds that cover patients’ travel to Dar es Salaam or any CCBRT satellite hospital across the nation for surgery. The event was attended by participants from the “Fistula is treatable” Programme that was launched in 2012 and which seeks to encourage women living with the condition to get treatment. The programme intends to help patients to recover from emotional trauma and social isolation that comes with fistula, and allow them to regain their wellbeing, self-respect and integrate back into society. Speaking during the event, Director of Corporate Affairs at Vodacom Tanzania Foundation, Rosalynn Mworia said the new ambassadors will join an existing network of more than 3000 fistula ambassadors who can actively identify patients and refer them to CCBRT or other CCBRT satellite hospitals providing fistula treatment. “These new ambassadors will join others who have already been trained and can identify patients and refer them to CCBRT hospital or other satellite hospitals providing fistula treatment.” She said. Other CCBRT satellite hospitals are Bugando (Mwanza), KCMC (Kilimanjaro), Nkinga (Tabora), Peramiho Mission Hospital (Ruvuma), Kabanga Mission Hospital (Kigoma), Songea Regional Hospital (Ruvuma) and Selian (Arusha). The ambassadors will use M-Pesa platform to transfer money to the women who suffer from Fistula. Mworia urged the ambassadors to organize outreaches in their communities to educate people about fistula and create support networks that will facilitate open discussions on challenges and other issues concerning fistula. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that in Tanzania, there are approximately 3,000 new cases of fistula each year. The initiative was developed as part of Vodacom Tanzania Foundation’s policy to support government efforts to improve health services in the country and tackle maternal mortality.