YOUNG Africans face a tricky test as they return to Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) as they face Namungo FC at the Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi Region today. Both Yanga and Namungo will be seeking for a place into the last eight of ASFC, which ultimate winner will represent the Mainland in CAF Confederation Cup. And, the Mainland Premier League goes into a short break this weekend to pave way for the ASFC. Mwinyi Zahera’s side left Dar es Salaam early on Friday for Lindi ahead of today’s match against the First Division League (FDL) side from Ruangwa District. Yanga travelled to Ruangwa minus key central defender, Kelvin Yondani and no details were divulged why the stout defender did not travel with the rest of the team. However, Coach Zahera has got enough options to choose from at the heart of the Yanga defence. Andrew Vincent and Abadallah Saibu will perfectly fit to partner in central defence. Going into the match, Yanga are buoyed with their hard earned 2-1 victory over Mbao FC in the top flight league match at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Wednesday to open up 11 point gap at the summit of the league table. They posted 61 points, while Azam are distance second on 50 points and Simba are third on 45 points. However, Simba have played seven less games compared to Yanga and Azam, who have played 25 league matches so far. Yanga striker, Amissi Tambwe who netted hat trick in the game against Tukuyu Stars said they are determined to win the game and progress into the next round of the tournament. Yanga beat Tukuyu Stars 4-0 on December 24th last year, and the other goal was netted by Heritier Makambo. Tambwe said Yanga will enter the pitch full throttle to seeking nothing but a big margin victory and cruise into the quarter finals of the competition. Yanga cruised into the last 16 stage after seeing off Biashara United on 5-4 penalties. The match had ended in a 2-2 draw on the normal time of the game at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on February 3rd this year. However, the Jangwani Street lads could face a stiff challenge from the hosts, who are under the tutelage of former Yanga defender, Bakari Malima. Namungo have a record of being invincible at their home ground and are likely to surprise one of the country’s football giants by eliminating them from the tournament. Malima said they respect their opponents as one of the country’s football giants but they do not fear them. Meanwhile, last year’s winners Mtibwa Sugar have been dethroned from ASFC on 4-3 penalties by Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) in a thrilling encounter at the Azam Sports Complex in Chamazi yesterday. The match had ended 1-1 in regulation time and the two teams had to be separated on spot kicks. Kelvin Sabato netted the equaliser from a set piece in the second half. KMC goalkeeper Jonathan Nahimana was a hero, saving two penalties and also scored a penalty for his team. Other spot kicks were netted by Yusuf Ndikumana, Emmanuel Mmvuyekure, Salum Chibu, while Ismail Gambo saw his kick saved by keeper Benedict Tinoco. Mtibwa Sugar penalties were scored by Salum Kihimbwa, Henry Joseph and Isihaka Hassan, while Nassoro and Shaaban Nditi missed their spot kicks. Singida United were set to face Coastal Union at the Azam Complex in Chamazi yesterday night. Singida based lads requested the game to be shifted to Azam Complex from Namfua Stadium in Singida. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), this year’s ASFC finals will be hosted at the Ilulu Stadium in Lindi Region on June 1st