NATIONAL Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai yesterday refuted as pure lies allegations by Kigoma Urban legislator Zitto Kabwe against his office over alleged 1.5tri/- embezzlement. The speaker also trashed claims by Singida North Member of Parliament (MP) Tundu Lissu that the house has never paid a penny for his medical bills. ACT-Wazalendo MP Zitto has repeatedly claimed that there was a 1.5tri/- corrupt deal, saying the amount was reportedly missing as per the Controller and Auditor General’s (CAG) 2016/17 audit report. Mr Lissu is as well on record to have claimed several times that the speaker’s office neither supported him in footing his medical bills nor gave him any of his entitled payments since he was shot on September 7, 2017. But, Speaker Ndugai, speaking in parliament after the questions and answers session, clarified on the allegations by two opposition MPs, dismissing the legislators as ‘big liars.’ He said Kigoma Urban MP wrote on his Instagram page that the CAG conducted a special audit in the treasury office, discovering that 1.5tri/- was missing and forwarded the audit report to the speaker’s office. According to Mr Zitto, the speaker’s office took no action and instead shelved the report. “I have several times remained silent on the allegations but I have decided to come out to particularly respond to the message he posted on his Instagram page on January 8…I want to categorically state before the public that Zitto is always fond of telling lies,’’ said the speaker. He explained that the letter that the MP claims was submitted on January 8, arrived in his office in Dar es Salaam on January 16 and he forwarded it to the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PAC). “If we fought together during the infamous Tegeta Escrow scandal with Mr Zitto, how can I shelve the report on 1.5tri/- scandal,’’ queried Speaker Ndugai, charging that the allegations by the outspoken MP aimed at tarnishing the image of parliament. The house speaker reminded MPs of the statement by President John Magufuli at the State House in Dar es Salaam on April 20, 2018 as he was swearing in judges. The president asked the CAG about the 1.5tri/- claims but the CAG denied the allegations. “I read somewhere that the government has stolen 1.5tri/-…I one day phoned the CAG and asked him about the allegations and why he didn’t tell me about that theft ... but, Professor Assad told me that there is nothing like that. I also asked the (Treasury) Permanent Secretary and he gave me the same response,” Dr Magufuli had remarked after swearing in the new High Court judges. “The government has stolen no money…we must start enforcing our laws, we may take it simple, but when one misleads 55 million Tanzanians, the consequences and side-effects might be serious,” warned the president. Mr Ndugai said yesterday that even after forwarding the matter before the PAC last week, the deputy CAG confirmed that the allegations were far from the truth, ”I want Tanzanians to understand that Zitto is a big liar.’’ Speaker Ndugai equally hit back at Lissu on allegations that his office had never disbursed money for the medical bills. Unknown assailants shot Mr Lissu several times on September 7, 2017 as he was heading home from his parliamentary duties. He was admitted at Nairobi hospital before being transfered to Belgium where he has stayed for over a year now. In several interviews with local and international media, Mr Lissu has claimed that the speaker’s office had never disbursed a single penny to foot his medical bills and other monetary entitlements as a sitting MP. But, yesterday, Mr Ndugai said as of December 2018, his office had paid 250m/- to the MP. The speaker said his office has paid 207,872,000/- as the MP entitlements and 43m/- contributions by other MPs to foot the medical bills at Nairobi hospital.