INSURANCE cover on imports has helped to boost insurance sector growth by 10 per cent from January to September last year, thanks to a legal requirement for all imports to be insured by a local insurance company. The Commissioner of Insurance at the Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) Dr Baghayo Saqware told the ‘Daily News’ in interview that the contribution of the growth was a result of 2017 amendments to the insurance act which, among other things, requires all imports be insured by locally registered companies as a way of promoting local content. “TIRA has recorded that covering risks of imports by locally registered companies has boomed 10 per cent of the whole insurance sector while for the import alone has increased to 23 per cent in the period from January to September last year,” said Dr Saqware. He said that the insurance act of 2017 and its regulations compel all importers to cover risks with locally registered insurance service providers unlike in the past where they could cover the risks anywhere which denied the country of revenue resulting from such an important sector of the economy. “This is for all cargos being imported in the country through water ways, airways, roads or railway. They must be insured by the companies registered in the country unlike in the past where they could be insured where the cargo was taken from,” he insisted. On the imports that may exceed risk capacity for the registered local companies, Dr Saqware clarified that a special permission may be sought from the insurance Commissioner to be insured by foreign registered companies. The TIRA boss assured that there was no tediousness in selling and purchasing insurance as from January 2018, his office launched an online based Tanzania Import Insurance purchasing portal (TIIP) which supports the process of securing risk coverage from any location of the globe. For exports, Dr Saqware said exporters were free to purchase insurance cover from local firms or elsewhere but said they would be pleased if they choose local firms. Dk Saqware called for Tanzanians to develop habit of purchasing and covering themselves and properties with insurances to protect themselves with possible risks. The 2017 amendments of Insurance Act of 2009 made it compulsory for all imports into Tanzania whether by road, rail, sea or air must be insured by Tanzanian registered companies with effect from 1st January 2018. Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA) in collaboration with Insurance Institute of Tanzania (IIT), launched a digital platform portal on the 1st of January 2018 to help Tanzanian importers to buy insurance policies from local insurance companies for all imported goods as per the new legal requirements.