RED hot Simba SC will be looking to continue superb performance in the Mainland Premier League when they face Lipuli FC at Samora Stadium in Iringa today. The defending champions sit third on the table with 45 points from 18 matches meaning that a win this afternoon will see them two points behind the second-placed Azam FC who have 50 points from 25 encounters. Their traditional rivals Young Africans still top the pile with 61 points after 25 outings, 16 points clear of Simba hence they desperately need to pocket maximum three points to keep chasing the upper league positions. From their past four matches, Simba have scored 10 goals and conceded just one goal while making three clean sheets. They have collected all 12 points in the process. It all started with a 3-0 win over Mwadui, 1-0 victory against Yanga, 3-0 demolition of African Lyon and a recent 3-1 thumping of Azam FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. This clearly shows that their backline led by central defender Pascal Wawa is doing a good job. On the other hand, relegation free Lipuli which accommodate fifth place on the ladder with 38 points from 27 matches have never lost to Simba at their Samora Stadium ever since promoted into the top flight league in 2017. However, in their previous four league clashes, the Iringa outfits have posted only a single victory, two draws and one defeat. They won 1-0 at home against KMC, drew 1-1 to Azam at Samora Stadium and recorded a 2-2 home draw against Singida United before succumbing to a 3-2 away loss from Stand United at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. Speaking recently, Simba Head Coach said despite their remarkable performance in the unfolding league, they still have to pull up to defend the championship at the end of the season. “We have many games to play to catch up with other teams as such, collecting maximum points will be our objective but that does not necessarily mean that it will be easy,” Aussems said. He admitted that the race to the finishing line will be between them and current leaders Yanga as such, results between the two sides matter most. Mathematically, if Simba win all their remaining fixtures, they will accumulate 105 points whereas Yanga should they also post victories in their remaining games, they will pocket 100 points. On his part, Lipuli Coach Selemani Matola said he will try to use the similar game approach used by Yanga Coach Mwinyi Zahera when his side faced Simba during the season’s last Dar es Salaam derby match. “I was impressed with the way Yanga played in the first half which never gave Simba to dominate the midfield section which is their breathing point and I will try to apply the same tactic,” Matola said. He added that he does not want to concede defeat at home territory as such, he is ready to deprive Simba crucial three points this afternoon. Another focus of the game will be directed on Simba’s Rwandan striker Meddie Kagere who is firing from every corner of the pitch to make the golden boot chase interesting.