A NINE-MONTH programme that aims at training and encouraging women to take charge in management and decisionmaking matters has been launched in Dar es Salaam. The programme dubbed ‘4th Cohort of the Female Future’ has been organised by the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) in collaboration with the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO). It is expected that participants in the programme will develop a new and positive attitude towards decision-making processes in any leadership position. Speaking during the launch of the programme, ATE Executive Director, Dr Aggrey Mlimuka, said the main objectives of the programme were to inspire and challenge women leaders to work with determination to deliver upon set goals and maintain positive progress for organisations they worked for and provide a professional forum for women at all levels to interact and exchange their expertise. “We have partnered with Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute (ESAMI) to deliver this programme. After completion and passing a board competence examination participants will be registered as accredited board directors and professional leadership mentors,” he said. Mentioning the number of participants in the 4th Cohort of the Programme, Dr Mlimuka said 30 women from 13 organisations would be trained in this course, which was offered for 14 days, but spread in 9 months with assignments in between and it would be finalised with official accreditation and recognition of participants and their organisations. Participant organisations are Acacia Mining Plc, TIB Corporate Bank, Geita Gold Mine Ltd, Doctors Plaza Poly Clinic, CRDB Bank Plc, Ernst & Young, Clinton Health Access Initiative, Tanzania Ports Authority, NMB Plc Bank, I&M Bank, TPB Bank, NBC Limited, HJF Medical Research Int. According to Dr Mlimuka, in the second quota of this year, ATE plans to start a female future alumni network, which will bring ladies from all cohorts of female future programme together to establish a powerful network of female leaders that they can use to advance their careers, receive professional advice and opinions. “We also desire to see these women mentor other women and impact the knowledge they have acquired through the programme to others as only few women can attend classes, hence create a ripple effect and prepare young women to take up leadership positions,” he added. For his part, ESAMI senior lecturer, Prof Michael Munkumba, said the programe was made for women in Africa to move and sustain them in board rooms, directorship, business apex, cabinet, parliament, senate, county assembly and senior management role in all sectors of the economy. “It is the only one of its kind in sub-Saharan Africa, developed to focus on the alleviation of gender inequality in economy, education, training and employment. It fairly pushes determined woma