THE 4.9bn/- worth new ferryboat for Bugolola and Ukara in Ukerewe Island is set for full operation by September this year as the government signs its construction agreement anytime this week. Speaking to reporters here yesterday the Tanzania Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Services Agency (TEMESA) Chief Executive Officer Eng Japhet Masele said the construction of the new ferryboat will be fast tracked to make sure the Ukara residents resume their fully-fledged social and economic activities following the capsize of MV Nyerere ferryboat in September last year. He said the new ferryboat with a capacity of 100 tonnes will accommodate around 300 passengers at a time and 10 cars. “This week will witness the signing of the construction contract of the new ferryboat that will operate between Ukara and Bugolola in Ukerewe Island whose construction work will take around eight months. We hope by September this year it will be fully operational,” he said. Eng Masele and his delegation are here for a number of tasks that included the inspection of early stages of the construction work of another ferryboat that is scheduled to operate between Kayenze and Bezi areas in Ilemela Municipality. The boat worth 2.7bn/- upon its full completion by November this year will ease transport woes residents of the two areas have been facing for years now and according to Eng Masele, it will also facilitate movements of fish traders with daily routes between the two areas to Kirumba international fish market and neighbouring areas. Besides two major ferry boat construction works, Eng Masele said TEMESA will also undertake a feasibility study to the rest of the destinations in Lake Victoria that are in need of transport or in need of alternative means of transportation to replace the dilapidated one. He said the government had dished out over 5bn/- this financial year for various rehabilitation works of ferryboats under the Agency saying the works will be undertaken as planned. He commended the Songoro Marine Company (SMCL) for its cost effective works in many contracts the company has signed with the government so far which implied the local companies were capable if trusted and enabled. “For sometimes now we have offered various works to this local company through competitive bids and it has proven competitive as well. We will continue using it as part of strategies to support local companies to undertake major works and deliver,” he said. According to TEMESA boss, foreign companies are presenting highly expensive bids nearly 400 per cent higher than the local ones hence awarding tenders to the local contenders like Songoro Marine Company. The company’s Managing Director Eng Salehe Songoro said his company will keep on undertaking the government works faithfully promising to utilise the three construction sites in Mwanza, Mbeya and Dar es Salaam effectively to complete the works on time. Mr Songoro commended the support accorded by the government in the construction of its ferryboats but blamed the absence of crucial materials that are not available in the country for the time being. “We are progressing well but the only challenge is that we are forced to import some of the crucial materials like iron steel which are not available in the country for now,” he said. The works in the construction industry are set to gain more pace following the government decision to endorse the exemption of 18 per cent Value Added Tax (VAT) to all major construction projects effective this financial year.