KATAVI Regional Commissioner (RC) Amos Makala (pictured) has indefinitely closed Mlibansi Airstrip located in Ilangu Ward in Mishamo refugees’ settlement in Tanganyika District, Katavi Region, for security reasons. Addressing Mishamo residents, the RC said the decision to close the airstrip resulted from the fact that it posed security threats to the region and the country at large. He said the decision to indefinitely close the airstrip was reached after it came to the regional leaders’ attention that unknown people from a neighbouring country were clandestinely using the airstrip for smuggling firearms into the country. “Unknown people from a neighbouring country are illegally using Mlibansi Airstrip for smuggling weapons into the country and this threatens security and lives of people. Worse still there are reports of increasing of poaching activities carried out in Tongwe Game Reserve in Tanganyika District (Katavi) and in the neighbourhoods of Kigoma Region,” added the RC. He said some dishonest individuals had been travelling with small aircraft via Mlibansi Airstrip and illegally bringing in weapons to Mishamo refugees’ settlement. “The airstrip has from today (yesterday) been closed indefinitely. So, any foreigner, who wants to travel to Mishamo settlement must use Mpanda Airport in Mpanda Municipal Council and then travel by road to Mishamo refugees’ settlement,” noted the RC. At the same time, a villager from Lugufu in Mishamo refugees’ settlement, identified as Mr Mkundikie William, has been arrested after being found with AK 47. The arrest of the resident prompted RC Makala to call upon the residents, who most of them are former Burundian refugees, but were now naturalised Tanzanians, to voluntarily surrender firearms which are in their possession. According to Mr Makala, several firearms, including SMGs, homemade guns as well as AK 47, were seized and one person with Burundian origin was arrested in possession of AK 47. The RC explained that as per status Mishamo was not typically a refugees’ settlement because most of the refugees from neighbouring Burundi were naturalised and granted Tanzanian citizenship, while others voluntarily returned home. He said currently only 6,665 of them were still holding the status of being a refugee and were still living inside the settlement. They had fled their country of origin and settled in Tanzania in 1972. While addressing a rally in Mishamo Ward, Katavi Regional Police Commander (RPC) Damas Nyanda warned that all those, who would be defying the RC directive to surrender firearms possessed illegally, would face legal action. He further said soon a special operation to hunt for the culprits would be launched. For his part, the chief in-charge of Mishamo refugees’ settlement, Mr Athman Igwe, briefed the RC that people from neighbouring Burundi were entering the refugee settlement via Mlibansi Airstrip and in secret were holding political discussions with the refugees.