EMBATTLED businessman Yusuf Manji has suffered yet another blow after Honda Motor Southern Africa Proprietary Limited (Honda SA) terminated authorised dealership agreement for its products with Quality Motors Limited (QML). Manji owned QML, a subsidiary of Quality Group Limited (QGL), was the authorised dealer of Honda products in Tanzania. Apart from the core automobile and motorcycles businesses, the company had also ventured into marketing of Honda’s power generators, water pumps and other products. On its website, QML boasts of establishing Honda as the top tier motorcycle brand and pioneering Isuzu brand in the country as well as developing Bridgestone as one of the top branded tyre in Tanzania. However, Honda SA announced in a public notice yesterday that QML ceased to be its authorised dealer in Tanzania effective January 31, 2019, warning that any person dealing with QML in respect of Honda products does so at his/her own risk. “This (public) notice follows the termination of the dealer sales and service agreement between Honda SA and QML. A new authorised dealer of Honda products will be appointed in due course. Any sale or repair of Honda products done by QML after January 31, 2019, shall not be authorised or supported by Honda SA. The company (Honda SA) will not be aware of or otherwise a party to any such transactions,” the public notice reads. The South Africa’s subsidiary of the Japanese multinational Honda Motors Limited warned further that QML is neither permitted to trade as the authorised dealer of Honda SA nor use its trademarks. The company did not specify the reasons for termination of the agreement. Inquiries by ‘Daily News’ to Honda SA through an electronic mail (e-mail) did not receive response until we went to press last evening. Since its inception in July 2000 as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Honda Motor Company, Honda SA has become a major player in South Africa with dealer network stretching throughout the Southern African Community Development (SADC) region. Termination of the agreement between Honda SA and QML comes a few months after Manji’s magnificent shopping mall along Nyerere Road, the Quality Centre, was placed under receivership in December, last year. The multi-billion-shilling property was placed under receivership over a debt owed to the Eastern and Southern African Trade and Development Bank (PTA Bank). The property is now jointly managed by Mr David Tarimo and Mr Nelson Msuya of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). In legal terms, receivership refers to a procedure where a person or an institution acts as custodian of the company’s assets or business operations, where the company cannot meet its financial obligations. It was not established how much Manji owes the PTA Bank. Yet again in December, last year, the High Court’s Commercial Division ordered Manji and four other defendants to pay over 33bn/- to the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) Limited, being monies outstanding on account of credit facilities extended in different occasions. In a commercial case No. 54 of 2018 decided by Judge Butamo Philip, Manji, Farm Equip (Tanzania) Company Limited, Tanperch Limited, Quality Group Limited and Kaniz Manji were ordered to pay the amount on account of overdraft and import loan facility as at February 28, 2018. It was alleged that contrary to the terms contained in the facility agreements, the defendants failed to service the advanced loan and interests at the agreed rate. Another blow to the Manji’s empire was in July, last year, when the Court of Appeal nullified the High Court’s proceedings and judgment that ruled in favour of Q-Consult Limited over ownership of Coco Beach in Dar es Salaam. The Q-Consult was allegedly leased about 21.6 hectares of the beach stretching from Kenyatta Drive to the outer edge of police officers’ mess compound on Toure Drive. It’s further claimed that under the fiscal terms of the project, Manji would pay 300,000 US dollars (about 700m/-) annually in royalty to Kinondoni Municipal Council or five per cent of revenues, whichever is higher from the first year of operation.