THE High Court yesterday adjourned until next month a ruling on the leadership impasse, involving the Registered Board of Trustees of Civic United Front (CUF) and embattled chairman, Prof Ibrahim Lipumba and others. Judge Benhajj Masoud was to decide on a number of issues, in particular, whether Prof Lipumba is the legitimate boss of the opposition party, but the session was pushed forward to March 17, 2019. High Court Deputy Registrar Sharmillah Sarwatt adjourned the court session on behalf of the Judge, who was not in court for other judicial duties. In the case, Prof Lipumba is being sued jointly with 10 other CUF members, including the party's Deputy Secretary General Magdalena Sakaya. Others are Registrar of Political Parties, who recognises Prof Lipumba as the lawful CUF Chairman and the Attorney General. The rest are Mr Maftah Nachuma, Mr Abdul Kambaya, Mr Masudi Mhina, Mr Thomas Malima, Ms Ashura Mustafa, Mr Kapasha Kapasha, Mr Musa Kombo, Mr Habibu Mnyaa and Mr Haroub Shamis. In the suit, the Registered Board of Trustees of CUF asks the court to prohibit the Political Parties Registrar, who is responsible for the registration of political parties in Tanzania from interfering in party affairs and nullify his letter of September 23, 2016, which recognises Prof Lipumba as the legitimate chairman. Prof Lipumba was the chairman of the political party until his resignation on August 5, 2015 and the general meeting of the party was convened on August 21, 2016 to endorse his resignation. But in a dramatic event, Prof Lipumba bounced back, claiming to have rescinded his resignation letter. Such a move attracted criticism from lawyers, saying what he had done was unprecedented for it had not happened in multi-party politics in Tanzania since independence. They were also critical of the move by the Registrar of Political Parties to support him. The filing of the suit came after the court allowed the plaintiff to sue the defendants. Judge Ama Munisi had ruled in favour of the registered trustees of the party after considering an application for leave successfully argued by advocate Juma Nassoro against the defendants. In the application, the plaintiff, the Registered Trustees of the CUF allied to opposition party's Secretary General Seif Shariff Hamad asks for leave to apply for orders of certiorari to quash the decision of the Registrar of the Political Parties to recognise Prof Lipumba as the lawful CUF chairman.