FARMERS should hope for more markets for their produce, with the delegation from the Ministry of Industry and Trade expected to embark on special mission to find markets abroad from next month. Agriculture Minister, Japhet Hasunga said yesterday that the government would send the Minister for industries and Trade alongside other top officials of the ministry to foreign countries in search of the markets. “From 1st next month we will deploy the minister and his officials to different countries to look for markets for our crops,” said the minister in Dar es Salaam when he was informing the public over the upcoming youth agribusiness conference scheduled for 20th next month in the city. He explained that the government was focused on connecting agriculture production and the market to establish the needs in the markets that would guide production. He pointed out the role of the youth in the agricultural sector in the country, saying the latter have potential to transform the sector for the envisaged industrialisation by 2025. The country’s agriculture sector has huge opportunities to create employment for the youth, who most of them waste their time looking for jobs after graduating. “ In agriculture is where you don’t need to do interview to be recruited,” he stated as he highlighted areas in agriculture that the youth could venture for generating income. He cited seeds and pesticides production as well as processing industries as among the areas that still need investments. For instance, in seeds production, the country could produce and meet only 10 per cent of the demand. “The youth have opportunity to organize themselves in groups and start producing seeds…traditional farmers can’t do this,” he said. Mr Majabi Emmanuel, Chairman of the Youth Agro Summit International, which organize the agribusiness summit, explained that the theme for the conference will be: ‘Youth Participation in the agribusiness towards the industrial economy.’ He said the event is expected to attract at least 1000 youth from across the country.