SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the 3-1 victory over Azam FC on Friday has given them confidence to do well in other upcoming Mainland Premier League fixtures. Meddie Kagere scored twice while skipper John Bocco contributed one goal at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam; to enable Simba maintain their perfect performance in the league. The solitary goal for the hosts Azam was netted by substitute Frank Domayo. As it stands, only five points separate Simba who are third on the log with 45 points against second placed Azam, which has 50 points, while the gap for Simba to catch leaders Young Africans is 16 points. It was the 18th league match for Simba this season which has seen them winning 12 games, drawing three and losing one encounter. Azam and Yanga have played 25 matches each so far. Simba head to face Lipuli FC on Tuesday at Samora Stadium in Iringa. Placed on fifth slot at the table with 38 points, relegation safe Lipuli have gained momentum this season winning nine games, recording 11 draws and losing seven matches in their previous 27 league outings. It will be another tricky assignment for Simba to return home unwounded. Simba’s superb performance has been boosted from their trade in the CAF Champions League. At a post-match briefing, Aussems said winning against Azam, a team he described as the second best team in the country after Simba was a big achievement ahead of their next matches. “I knew that it will be a tense match since we were facing a difficult team that is why we approached it seriously,” Aussems said. He added: “Scoring two goals in the first half gave us more confidence to win the match despite losing ground in the first ten minutes of the second half. We were a bit overwhelmed then since our opponents were using long balls and I told my players to prevent them from playing long balls something we succeeded.” He further said after the triumph, their focus now is to post another convincing outcome against Lipuli in order to stand a good chance of catching up with the top two teams at the summit of the ladder. On his part, Azam Head Coach Hans Van der Pluijm said his team lacked efficiency in taking their scoring opportunities. “In every match, we create lots of scoring opportunities but we are not confident to use them. This is what happened today (Friday),” he said. He added that they want to score and win games only that his charges fail to make full use of chances created. Out of five past league matches, Azam have failed to claim maximum three points whereby three games ended in draw while losing twice. However, speculations are looming that following series of negative results, the management of Azam FC is considering replacement of Pluijm, who took charge of the club this season from Singida United.