BANK of Tanzania (BoT) has cautioned the public to avoid using services from unauthorized bureaux de change, entities or individuals as it is a criminal offence that may lead to monetary fines or imprisonment. “BoT wishes to caution the public not to use the services of bureaux de change that are offered by unauthorised entities and/or individuals,” the BoT statement issued yesterday asserted. It added that, “engagement in unauthorised bureaux de change services is a criminal offence and may lead to monetary fines or imprisonment.” According to the statement, using services from unauthorized bureaux de change is risky and could lead to theft and chances of being issued with counterfeit currencies. The Bank stressed that special operation to crack down illegal bureaux de change will continue to be conducted regularly. In November last year, the BoT coordinated a special operation in Arusha aimed at identifying bureaux de change, which were operating without valid licence or carrying out illegal operations. As a result of the operation, the bureaux de change was closed pending investigations and action on those which will be found to have broken the law. “The BoT wishes to inform the public that services are currently being offered by all banks and financial institutions,” said the statement. Further, all banks and financial institutions have been urged to continue playing an active role in providing the services to their clients during the interim period as investigations of the bureaux de change continue. Members of the public are encouraged to report to the BoT any inconveniences encountered, so that appropriate solutions can be provided. The Central Bank raided foreign exchange bureaus in Arusha city in November last year to investigate suspected money laundering. The Central Bank Governor, Florens Luoga said they conducted a surprise inspection of foreign exchange bureaus in a crackdown on black market currency trading and money laundering. “There has been an increase in illegal foreign exchange bureaux and money laundering activities that have been conducted through foreign exchange bureaus,” central bank Governor, Florens Luoga said.