IT’S no longer news that stress can take its toll on both your physical and mental health. Numerous studies have shown a link between stress and high blood pressure and how simple living can help alleviate tension-related reactions such as insomnia, nervousness, anxiety, and neck and shoulder spasms, chronic fatigue. Stress wreaks havoc on your emotional equilibrium, as well as your physical health. It narrows your ability to think clearly, function effectively, and enjoy life. Think about all the technology resources that we now use that weren’t commonplace a few years ago. Simplifying your life doesn’t mean you have to ditch the cell phone, e-mail, instant messaging, voice mail, call forwarding, and on and on. But it does mean establishing clear boundaries. It may seem like there’s nothing you can do about stress. The bills won’t stop coming, there will never be more hours in the day and your work and family responsibilities will always be demanding. But the simple realisation that you’re in control of your life is the foundation of managing stress. Stress management is all about taking charge of your lifestyle, thoughts, emotions, and the way you deal with problems. No matter how stressful your life seems, there are steps you can take to relieve the pressure and regain control. Effective stress management helps you to break the stress in your life, so you can be happier, healthier, and more productive. The ultimate goal is a balanced life which includes; time for work, relationships, relaxation, and fun and the resilience to hold up under pressure and meet challenges head on. I’ll highlight effective stress management tips can help you deal with your life stressors. First, you need to identify the sources of stress in your life. Some stressors, such as job pressures, relationship problems or financial concerns, are easy to identify. But daily hassles and demands, such as waiting in a long line or being late to a meeting, also contribute to your stress. After identifying the sources of stress, practice the 4 A’s of stress management. It’s helpful to think of the four A’s: avoid, alter, adapt, or accept. Remember it’s not healthy to avoid a stressful situation that needs to be addressed, but you may be surprised by the number of stressors in your life that you can eliminate. If you can’t avoid a stressful situation, try to alter it. Often, this involves changing the way you communicate and operate in your daily life. If you can’t change the stressor, change yourself. You can adapt to stressful situations and regain your sense of control by changing your expectations and attitude. Then lastly, note that sources of stress are unavoidable. You can’t prevent or change stressors such as the death of a loved one, a serious illness. In such cases, the best way to cope with stress is to accept things as they are. Acceptance may be difficult, but in the long run, it’s easier than railing against a situation you can’t change. Note that physical activity is a huge stress reliever and you don’t have to be an athlete or spend hours in a gym to experience the benefits. Exercise releases endorphins that make you feel good, and it can also serve as a valuable distraction from your daily worries. Try also to connect to family and friends because there is nothing more calming than spending quality time with another human being who makes you feel safe and understood. Keep in mind that the people you talk to don’t have to be able to fix your stress. They simply need to be good listeners. Try not to let worries about looking weak or being a burden keeps you from opening up. The people who care about you will be flattered by your trust. It will only strengthen your bond. Beyond a take-charge approach and a positive attitude, you can reduce stress in your life by carving out “me” time. Don’t get so caught up in the hustle and bustle of life that you forget to take care of your own needs. Nurturing yourself is a necessity, not a luxury. If you regularly make time for fun and relaxation, you’ll be in a better place to handle life’s stressors. Poor time management can cause a lot of stress. When you’re stretched too thin and running behind, it’s hard to stay calm and focused. Plus, you’ll be tempted to avoid or cut back on all the healthy things you should be doing to keep the stress in check, like socialising and getting enough sleep. In addition to regular exercise, maintaining a healthy lifestyle will help you manage stress. Eat a healthy diet, exercise regularly and get enough sleep. Make a conscious effort to spend less time in front of a screen television, tablet, computer and phone and more time relaxing. Lastly, learn to relieve stress in the moment when you’re frazzled by your morning commute, stuck in a stressful meeting at work, or fried from another argument with your spouse, you need a way to manage your stress levels right there and then. That’s where quick stress relief comes in. The fastest way to reduce stress is by taking a deep breath and using your senses that is, what you see, hear, taste, and touch or through a soothing movement you can quickly relax and focus yourself. Remember stress won’t disappear from your life. Stress management needs to be ongoing. But by paying attention to what causes your stress and practicing ways to relax, you can counter some of the bad effects of stress and increase your ability to cope with challenges.