TANZANIA insurance industry is set to benefit substantially from extractive sectors and lead in East African bloc thanks to the new mining legislation that requires importers to buy insurance cover from local companies. The regulations, promulgated recently after amended the Mining Act 2010 and Petroleum Act, 2015, aim to increase integration of the extractive sectors into the local economy by sourcing inputs locally to enable ‘wananchi’ benefiting further from natural resources. Orbit Securities, Market Analyst Imani Muhingo, said if insurance industry full-covered the risk involved only in drilling of oil and gas wells the assets could hit the roof and top the east African bloc. “There are known to be about 101 active onshore and offshore oil and gas wells in Tanzania which, by simple arithmetic means a minimum total insurable interest valued at approximately 4.0 billion US dollars,” Mr Muhingo said. He said the industry, despite a good intention of the government to enable locals to benefit from natural endowment, is yet to absorb such risk due to limited financial power thus need a jab from capital markets. “The capital market comes in handy when facing the capital and financing challenges through numerous ways, [since] extraction activities require large amounts…and operational expenditures and sophisticated technology,” he said. The most convenient way of insurance companies to raise financing in the capital market is through issuance of Insurance Linked Securities (ILS) most notably catastrophe (cat) bonds. A cat bond is a risk linked security which transfers a specific set of risks from the issuer/ sponsor of the bond to investors. The bond is issued by an insurance company just like any conventional corporate bond, usually through a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed by the insurance company. Nigeria, having a similar local content policy, had insurers come together under the governing council of Nigeria Insurers Association and formed the Energy and Allied Risks Insurance Pool of Nigeria (EAIPN) and Ghana also formed Ghana Oil & Gas Insurance Pool (GOGIP) to deal with similar challenges following a similar local content policy on natural resources. These associations are important since the cost of drilling a single gas well to the point of extraction costs roughly between 20million US dollar and 40 million US dollars. This, however, is minus extraction of gas, transportation and other operations. “…Is the magnitude the insurance industry has to prepare for a worst case scenario. “This is only the case with oil and gas, while extraction involves mining of gold, iron, coal, steel, uranium, and gemstones (including tanzanite and diamonds),” Mr Muhingo told ‘Daily News’ yesterday. Recently, Tanzania promulgated the Petroleum (local content) Regulations in 2017 and The Mining (local content) Regulations in 2018 following amendments made to the Mining Act 2010 and Petroleum Act, 2015. However, a simple survey, according to Orbit Securities showed that the biggest challenges faced by insurers in covering extractive companies are inadequate capital and expertise. According to Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (TIRA), gross premiums received for general insurance for the nine months to last September was 449.3bn/- of which only 3.83bn/- or 0.85per cent came from premiums related to oil and gas activities. The value of the insurance industry’s total assets is approximately 0.78 per cent of Tanzania’s GDP and only 3.0 per cent of the country’s banking sector’s assets.