THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday sentenced eight people, including Ward Executive Officer Yusuph Sungu to life imprisonment for setting on fire Bunju Police Post. Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba gave such a sentence after convicting the accused of an offence of arson. Other convicts are Juma Koso, Rashid Liwima, Halfani Mshangeli, Abuu Issa, Ramadhani Said, Abdurahman Minga and Veronica Emphrem. The magistrate said the evidence produced by 17 prosecution witnesses sufficiently proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed the offence on July 10, 2015 in Bunju A in Kinondoni District in the city. During hearing of the case, the prosecution led by Principal State Attorneys Bernard Kongola and Mutalemwa Kishenyi called 17 witnesses to prove the charge against the accused. They were charged alongside 27 other accused, who the court set them free for lack of evidence. Apart from arson, the prosecution had charged all 35 accused with five other offences of unlawful assembly and malicious damage to properties, in particular four motor vehicles owned by Dar es Salaam residents Deogratius Kitikla, Abdallah Mshindo, Mwajabu Mohamed and Abdallah Mandi. In his judgment, however, the trial magistrate noted that none of the prosecution witnesses produced evidence to substantiate the involvement of the accused in committing such offences. The magistrate, therefore, acquitted them all forthwith in respect of such counts. Before pronouncing the sentence, State Attorney Ester Martin requested the court to punish the accused severely considering the seriousness of the offence committed for what they had done destroying by fire the police post could ignite the bleach of the peace. The trial attorney, therefore, proposed severe punishment to serve as a lesson not only to the accused, but also to any other person tempted to commit a similar offence in future. For their part, the accused requested for a lenient sentence, because they were first offenders and had several dependants. It was alleged by the prosecution that on July 10, 2015 in Bunju A in Kinondoni District in the city, willfully and unlawfully, the accused set on fire Bunju A Police Post, the property of the Tanzania Police Force. Some Bunju residents are alleged to have attacked and set on fire Bunju A Police Station, a situation that forced the police to disperse them using tear gas after setting up a roadblock when a school going pupil was hit by a speeding vehicle in the area and died on the spot.