AS part of its plans to safeguard the environment, the government is soon set to put a total ban on the use of plastic bags in the country. The ban is set to enhance the government’s move on safeguarding the environment, and that much focus will be put on encouraging the public to start using alternative materials. The statement was issued on Thursday by an industrial engineer who works under the environment department at the Vice-President’s Office (VPO), Mr Julius Mosha, who said that they are finalising the process to impose the ban. Mr Mosha was speaking during a debate under the theme ‘The Effects of Plastic Waste Pollution’ that was organised by the French Embassy in Tanzania. He said that for years the government has been fighting to eradicate the use of materials that aren’t friendly to the environment, adding that it will continue to take various interventions to address the challenge. “The use of plastic bags has been a national concern for more than a decade now, and to be specific, the fight started in 2006,” said the senior official, adding that the ban will be announced anytime soon. He went on to explain that statistics indicate that plastic bags contribute to 40 per cent of all deaths of wild animals that had swallowed them. According to the expert, plastic bags contain toxic substances which melt when heated, and that there is need for all members of the public to stop using them. His views were in line with the thoughts of the French Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Frederick Clavier, who in his speech argued on the importance of slowing down the use of plastic materials. The envoy said efforts to eradicate impacts of plastic waste pollution require the involvement of all stakeholders, including the government and general public at large. “Protection of the environment should be the number one priority, based on the fact that about 300 million tonnes of plastic wastes are produced every year,” he said during his welcoming note. He went on to explain that various researches have estimated that over 8.3 billion tonnes of plastic has been produced since the early 1950, and that 60 per cent of that ended up in either a landfill or the natural environment. In 2016, the government through the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment) announced that the government will totally ban the manufacture and use of plastic bags effective January 2017. In a notice of intention to impose the said total ban, the Permanent Secretary in the Vice-President’s Office said the move was part of implementation of the law that was enacted in 2013. In the notice, the government also provided a four-month grace period to owners of plastic bag manufacturing factories to take specific steps by investing in an alternative material and plastic waste recycling facilities.