TANZANIA Mercantile Exchange (TMX) is finalizing preparations for opening a local tea auction in the country to compete with Kenya’s Mombasa Auction by giving farmers better deals. The TMX Chief Executive Officer, Mr Godfrey Malekano told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview on Wednesday that the initiative to relocate from Mombasa auction would boost farmers’ earnings and government revenue as well as retaining the identity of the local produced tea. “We have deployed a team of experts to all tea producing areas to sort out some critical issues that may hamper smooth fast track of the tea auction in the country,” he said. Tea is among five leading cash crops in Tanzania and more than 30,000 smallholder farmers collectively produce a third of the country’s output. Tea industry players in Tanzania and Kenya have been pushing to exit the Mombasa auction due to loss of identity of their tea once they enter Mombasa auction, high transport costs to Mombasa and prospects of earning more with local auctions. Mr Malekano said tea farmers and the government were losing significant amount of earnings through exporting tea to Kenya for the Mombasa auction. He said with the envisioned Dar tea auction, traders will have access to global tea markets that offer competitive prices. Also, it will benefit the Dar es Salaam port for tea exports. “Tanzania tea loses its identity once is exported through Mombasa because it lacks the proper packaging and this would mean that all the benefits go to the country where the auction and port are located.” He said apart from the traditional European markets for tea, China has become new and important market with huge demand for tea from the East African producers. He said discussions with key stakeholders in the tea industry have been held and paved the way for the takeoff of the tea auction market in Dar es Salaam. He said setting up of warehouses for tea storage is on card as well as other infrastructure improvements with expectation of fetching high prices than when the local produced tea is sold through Mombasa auction. Statistics show that about half of the land under tea production (11,272 hectares) is farmed by big estates with 11,449 hectares owned by growers who produce tea for export.