THE accessibility of information required by Tanzanians wishing to study in France has been simplified after French Embassy yesterday locally launched an Information Centre that will provide them with relevant tips. The establishment of the centre which has been stationed at the University of Dar es Salaam main campus comes after the embassy realised that there was a high demand of Tanzanians who want to further their studies in their country, but facing difficulties during application processes. Speaking at the event, French Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Frederick Clavier said his government was dedicated and well determined to welcome more foreign students, as part of enhancing bilateral relations, besides knowledge sharing among members, including others from all parts of the world. “The presence of Tanzanian students in France will help in promoting the Tanzania culture and Swahili language, French students will also do part of their studies in Tanzania to learn Swahili,” he said. The Ambassador added that his country has been one of the most popular study destinations in the world with nearly 300,000 students; relatively with low tuition fees and chance to live in France are certainly appealing. “But France’s education system can be frustrating to navigate, this is why we have decided to launch this centre,” pointed out the envoy, adding that they will also double the number of university courses that are offered in English. Expounding further, Mr Clavier said for the past ten years, the number of Diploma courses that are offered in English has been increased five times by the French Universities. Also there are more than 1,000 courses that are fully taught in English mostly at Master’s level. “The French government through the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs is also determined to offer 15,000 Scholarships to students from East and African countries,” he hinted. Present at the event, was the Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo, who thanked the French Embassy for the initiative, and called upon Tanzanians to make better use of the opportunity. He was of a view that the opportunity to study abroad also provides Tanzanians with competency, especially in technologies that aren’t in the country. “This will complement Tanzanians in the industrialisation drive by ensuring the country has sufficient number of experts in various fields,” he added, and pledged for the total cooperation from the government to ensure the opportunities are well utilised. On his part the UDSM V ice Chancellor, Prof William Anangisye, said the centre will inevitably cultivate and increase interest of many Tanzanians to study in France. “Our graduates will find the Centre useful as it creates hope for further and alternative education opportunities, and it has created a space for future negotiations between our University and institutions in France for further students and staff to exchange programmes,” he pointed out.