ATHLETICS Tanzania (AT) is in the process of picking national athletics team to represent the country in the IAAF World Cross-country Championships, to take place in Denmark next month. The International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) is organising the 2019 instalment of World Cross-country marathon in the Aarhus City of Denmark on March 30th this year. Athletes from Tanzania who are to fly to Aarhus, for the World Cross-Country, will be selected on February 16th 2019 at Magereza grounds in Moshi Municipality, Kilimanjaro Region. The first filtering exercise took place in Arusha during the preceding Ngorongoro National Cross-Country Marathon, held in Arusha, where athletes from the army, including the National Service (JKT) and Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) topped the event. Runner, Stephano Huche topped the male category of the Ngorongoro National Cross-country Series Championship 2019, held at Kisongo in Arusha. He used 24 minutes, 15 seconds to cover eight kilometres. Stephano was ahead of Marco Sylvester, also from the National Service (JKT), who covered the distance in 24:20, the third winner was Daniel Sinda from ‘Team Umbe’, who used 24:28. For the women runners, it was Cecilia Ginoka from the TPDF, who used 22 minutes and 10 seconds to cover six kilometres of the ladies’ race. She beat Angelina Tsere from National Service, who covered the distance in 22:14. Agnes Protas from team Umbe was third in 22:29. The race was sponsored by the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA). AT Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday called upon other athletes to participate in the National Cross-Country events, since they are important in building up the country’s running squad for Denmark. “We have summoned all athletes to participate but many don’t seem to be interested; this is compulsory, they have moral obligation, to represent Tanzania, they should not just wait for their own paid events overseas,” said Gidabuday. At least 18 athletes will fly to Aarhus for the global cross-country event. There are three categories-- men, women and juniors. Each will be represented by six runners. “Ngorongoro, in addition to conservation and tourism activities, also supports sporting events, being among the ways of promoting Tanzania as tourism destination,” said the Public Relations Manager for the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) Joyce Mgaya.