PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday ordered security forces to intensify safety measures and patrols at border areas to contain increasing murders, armed robberies and threats against citizens. He named areas where the defence forces have to strengthen security as Kibondo, Buhigwe, Kasulu, Ngara, Biharamulo, Uvinza, Kakonko and Kigoma Rural whose residents particularly traders are in great fear of the criminals. “Maintaining security of the country is our duty…everyone has the role to play, let us support the defence forces. Our neighbours eager to come to Tanzania must follow procedures by applying for permits,” he said. The premier, winding up his tour of Kigoma region, also directed that any refugee escaping from their camps should be arrested and subjected to appropriate measures as per the laws of the country. Mr Majaliwa said those entering the country without following procedures were the first suspects of crimes—armed robberies and child abduction. He asked the Home Affairs Minister, Mr Kangi Lugola, to meet the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and deliberate on the agency’s fulfilment of its duties without violating the country’s laws. Mr Lugola was further tasked to make close follow ups on the ministry’s staff working in the refugee’s camps and take stern disciplinary measures to those failing to perform. Mr Majaliwa warned Tanzanians hiring foreigners to work in their plantations without permits. “It’s illegal to take workers from outside the country and let them do the jobs without permits, anyone wishing to hire foreigners should follow procedures, indicating the number of people wanted and days they will spend,” he said. The premier said the purpose of restricting entries of foreigners is to maintain security, arguing that some employers deny payments to hired foreigners once their works are done, threatening to prosecute them for illegal entry in the country, leading to conflicts. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa has strongly warned Biharamulo District Executive Director Wende Ng’ahara and District Commissioner Sada Malunde over their perpetual conflicts. The premier warned the two leaders that he will not hesitate to advise President John Magufuli to make a befitting decision against them if they don’t iron out their differences and serve the public. He said continuous misunderstandings between public leaders portray a bad image to their subordinates, ordering them to reform because they are trusted by the government to manage their area of administration. The premier issued the warning that sounded like a verbal reprimand to the leaders yesterday when he addressed Nyakanazi residents in Biharamulo District, Kagera region. He said the two leaders went to the extremes of accusing each other of superstition, affecting development activities in the area.