MINING Minister Dotto Biteko yesterday instructed the mining commission to serve a 30-day notice to companies that own 18,341 mining licences to pay the government over 100bn/- or risk losing their licences. The minister said the owners of 18,341 licences owe the government 116.67bn/- that they should pay in 30 days. Upon failure to pay the amount, the commission will have seven days to revoke all licences involved. He insisted that the licences will be rescinded within seven days should the defaulters fail to pay within the given period, charging that the government is committed to implement the rules and laws guiding the mining industry. He said the commission has issued 30,973 mining licences, with 18,341 of them having not paid a number of fees, which total 116.67bn/-. Mr Biteko said his office has this month conducted licence verification, realising that defaulters have been already served with defaulting notices but the permits have not been revoked as the law prescribes. Giving breakdown on the amount of money that the government claims from each licence category with the amount in brackets, the minister mentioned prospecting licence (61.67bn/-), special mining licence (6.41bn/-), mining licence (28.28bn) and primary mining licence (19.51bn/-). Mr Biteko argued that since the mining commission had served the defaulters notice to 110 prospecting licence and 52 mining licence holders, their licences should be withdrawn in seven days. He directed the commission to ensure that even the government entities that have not paid the fees to face similar actions. “Even the National Development Corporation (NDC) should have its licence annulled because I am aware that they have an outstanding fee of 375,000 US dollars with its partner in Liganga and Mchuchuma…they should be dealt with according to the law regardless of their status,” said Mr Biteko. The commission was also directed to call off all active prospecting licences that have no pending payment claims but within three months since receipt of the certificate, nothing have been done in the allocated areas. The minister also ordered the commission under Prof Idris Kikula to ensure that all demarcated areas are given to small scale miners. The minister was seemingly disturbed by a tendency especially by small scale miners to set up gold elution plants without following the rules and procedures, accusing them spearheading gold smuggling. He said as of this month, 639 unlicensed elution plants have subjected the government to revenue loss of 1.76bn/- in terms of fees and other costs. The minister directed the commission to ensure all plants are licensed within 30 days and those failing to get the certificates of compliance within the given period to cease operations. For close monitoring and control of the elution plants, Mr Biteko called upon the commission and regional commissioners to set up special zones within three months where the plants will be fixed for increased revenue collection from gold. The commission was further ordered to come up with a proposal of licence limit for a company or person because others especially in the prospecting category are holding more than one and nothing is done, denying others the opportunity to produce. He cited Christopher Eliofo of Ntoku Limited who has applied for 700 prospecting mining licences and has not paid the application fees. The minister said the government embraces environmental friendly initiatives, hinting that within one year, small scale miners will have to revert to other technology contrary to the current use of timber as ground supporting materials.