DAR ES SALAAM-BASED Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court has summoned a Briton and German to answer conspiracy, money laundering and operating pyramid scheme charges involving over 17bn/-. The called foreigners are Manon Hubenthal, a resident of Greven in Germany and Frank Ricketts from Blackwats in the United Kingdom, both directors with IMS Marketing Tanzania Limited. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi granted the prosecution’s request on Tuesday to have the two directors summoned after they failed to appear before the court. Senior State Attorney Christopher Msigwa represented the prosecution during the session. Due to thabsence of the two accused, the magistrate adjourned the case to February 20, 2019, for mention, pending the arraignment of the two foreigners. According to the charge sheet, the two foreigners are accused of conspiring to manage and conduct a pyramid scheme between November 1, 2014 and October 30, 2017 in Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that within the same time in the city and different places within Tanzania and other places within UK and Germany, the accused jointly and together managed and conducted the pyramid scheme. They allegedly collected money from the public on promise to individual contributors to receive in return the amount, which in all commercial consideration, is greater than the amount collected. On money laundering charges, the accused are alleged to have directly engaged in a transaction involving money by directing a total sum of 1,351,597.79 US dollars be credited to bank account maintained at Bank of Africa (BOA) Bank Limited in the name of the said company. In another related offence, within the same period and places in Dar es Salaam, UK and Germany, the accused allegedly engaged in transactions involving money by directing 5,377,306.56 Euros be credited to bank account maintained at BOA Bank. It is claimed that the accused knew or ought to have known that the money was the proceeds of predicate offence of managing and conducting the pyramid scheme. Late last year, two people, including a Kenyan, were arraigned before the same court charged with conspiracy, operating the pyramid scheme and money laundering involving over 1bn/-. Before the court were Jones Mushi and Kenyan James Gathonjia, who are all Directors of Rifaro Africa Limited, a limited liability company fully registered in Tanzania that deals with sales and distribution of airtime, software development and software leasing services. It was alleged that on diverse dates between July 14, 2014 and July 31, 2016, within the city of Dar es Salaam, the two accused conspired together to commit an offence of conducting a pyramid scheme. Within the same period in Dar es Salaam and different places in Tanzania, the accused allegedly conducted the pyramid scheme by collecting money from the public, promising individual contributors to receive money greater than they had paid. It was claimed further that within the same period and places, the accused engaged themselves in a transaction involving money, the sum of 1,022,560,854/-, which was proceeds of predicate offence. According to the prosecution, the accused directed the said amount to be credited in a bank account held at Kenya Commercial Bank (T) Limited in the name of Rifaro Africa Limited, while they knew or ought to have known that the sum was the proceeds of an offence of conducting a pyramid scheme. Hardly five years ago, the court sentenced four officials with Development Entrepreneurship for Community Initiative (DECI) to six years in jail for operating the pyramid scheme in the country illegally. They were Jackson Sifael Mtares, Dominick Kigendi, Timotheo Saigaran ole Loitginye and Samwel Sifael Mtares, who were all directors of DECI. The court had ordered them to serve the said custodian sentence had they failed to pay the 21m/- fine each. They paid the fine to escape the jail term.