DIRECTOR of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has granted powers to Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam to conduct the 1bn/-economic sabotage and abuse of position charges on the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) Line Project. Such new development was revealed by the prosecution last Friday before the court when responding to an application by defence lawyers, who had sought for dismissal of the charges against the accused persons. Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Prosecutor Magela Ndimbo told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba that the DPP provided his “consent” to the lower court to conduct the trial on January 28, 2019. Under the law, all economic sabotage cases are tried by the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime Division of the High Court of Tanzania, which was established recently. However, the cases can be heard by lower court upon receiving the DPP consent. In criminal trials, consent to prosecute refers to the power of the DPP to allow prosecution not initiated by him to proceed. Consent to prosecute therefore is permission to proceed with the case. The lawyers for the accused, Dr Rugemeleza Nshala and Mr Jeremia Mtobesya, had pushed for the dismissal of the charges and acquittal of their clients, arguing that the prosecution has failed to prosecute the case since the arraignment of their clients over three years ago. Responding, the prosecutor told the court that the case against the accused fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act whose investigations were not governed by the provision of section 225 of the Criminal Procedure Act. Referring to sections 29 and 30 of the Economic Act, once the charge is read to the accused, the court may or may not grant bail while after completion of investigations the court file is taken to the DPP to decide on the way forward. “The DPP, upon going through the evidence collected may discharge the accused, order further investigations or direct the trial to proceed for hearing,” the prosecutor submitted. The magistrate, after hearing the prosecution’s response, adjourned the case to February 15, 2019 when he will rule on whether or not to dismiss the charges as requested by the defence or proceed with the hearing as consented by the DPP. The accused in the trial include former Director General with Reli Assets Holding Company (RAHCO) Engineer Benhadard Tito, Kanji Mwinyijuma, a businessman and Emanuel Massawe, ex-RAHCO Company Secretary. They are charged with conspiracy, abuse of position and occasioning over 1bn/- loss in transactions relating to railway upgrade. The accused allegedly conspired to commit the offence under the Prevention and 711090003Combating of Corruption Act between September 1, 2004 and September 30, 2015. The prosecution alleges that on February 27, 2015, at RAHCO offices in Ilala District, while discharging his duties, Engineer Tito intentionally abused his position by procuring Rothschild (South Africa) Proprietary Limited. According to the prosecution, such company was procured as transaction advisor for the project to upgrade the central line corridor railway in Tanzania by single source method without a prior approval of RAHCO Tender Board, an act which violated the Procurement Act. Between March 12 and May 20, 2015, at RAHCO offices, Eng Tito and Massawe allegedly abused their positions by signing a letter for appointing the South African company and failure to submit consultancy services contract between the company and RAHCO to the Attorney General for vetting. The two accused, between May 20 and June 20, 2015, at RAHCO offices, allegedly abused their positions by signing the consultancy agreement and failure to submit copies to the Attorney General, Controller and Auditor General, Internal Auditor General and Tanzania Revenue Authority.