OVER 400 runners from all over the country are expected to battle in today’s national Open Cross Country championship in Moshi. The runners will be fighting for place in the national athletics team which will represent the country in the IAAF World Cross Country Championship in Denmark. The National Open Cross Country Championship takes place early today at the Moshi Golf Club in Kilimanjaro region, whereby men and women runners will battle in three different categories. Athletics Tanzania (AT) will field 24 athletes in the World event scheduled for March 31st this year in Aarhus, Denmark. AT Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday said that preparations for the open championship were going on smoothly and that they are waiting to witness a great competition and new talents from the participants. Gidabuday said that the championship target is to pick the best runners, who will form the national athletics team. “We are determined to select the best runner and form the best team, which will be the country’s envoy in the 43rd edition of the IAAF World Cross Country Championship. “We need to get the best athletes that will win medals in the IAAF World Cross Country Championship,” he added. He named the event to be competed for in four races today’s championship as 10 kilometres (10 km) race for senior men and the same for women. The day will also witness junior boys compete in eight (8 km) race and six (6km) race for junior girls. According to Gidabuday, six top runners from each four races will automatically qualify to join the national team for the Denmark Championship. However, he said the process of picking the national team will be under the supervision of AT Technical Committee, which is under the legendary runner, Juma Ikangaa. And, apart from the six top winners of each race qualifying to be part of the national team, they are also going to win cash prizes each, to be awarded according to the position they attain. Gidabuday said the world athletics governing body, IAAF, will meet participation costs for a section of Tanzania’s senior athletes in the World Cross Country Championship. The AT, he disclosed, will foot participation costs for the country’s junior athletes in the forthcoming showpiece. The 42nd edition of the IAAF World Cross Country Championships was hosted in Ugandan capital Kampala on March 26th 2017, whereby a total of 553 athletes from 59 countries took part in the championship. And in senior men (10 km) event Kenya’s Geoffrey Kipsang took the gold medal and his compatriot Irene Chepet Cheptai bagged gold medal in senior women (10 km) race category. In junior boys (8 km) Uganda’s Jacob Kiplimo won gold and in junior girls Ethiopian Letesenbet Gidey bagged a gold medal.