THE Dar es Salaam-based New Africa Hotel is expecting to be rebranded as Four Points by Sheraton under Marriott in the second quarter of this year, initiative that will create more jobs and attract more tourists. The Director of New Africa Hotel, Mr Shabir Abji told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview that Marriott is one of the largest Hotel chains in the world with over 6,700 hotels and 30 brands under its portfolio. There are over 200 Four Points by Sheraton across the world. “Apart from adding 50 jobs, rebranding as an international exposure of the brand loyalty, will also serve in attracting more tourists despite the fact that hotel business in Dar es Salaam doesn’t get many tourists,” he said. Commenting on how the facility is fairing in hotel business in Tanzania, Mr Abji said, “The Hotel is the oldest hotel in Dar es Salaam and a lot of history attached to it. Hotel industry is struggling right now in Dar es Salaam as occupancy has been dropping steadily over the past few years,” He added that in 2018, the average city occupancy was just over 50 percent which is down from 80 percent in 2016. He stressed that post rebranding of the Hotel, Tanzania as a country should expect creation of more jobs as results of increasing the number of rooms and meeting spaces across the hotel. Also economically, better returns for the government and the investors are also among the projections. For his part, the Hotel’s Manager, Mr Siddharth Chaudhry said that New Africa Hotel which is co-owned by the government and Holiday Resorts Investments Limited will be the second Four Points in Tanzania as The Arusha Hotel has already been rebranded as Four Points by Sheraton-the Arusha Hotel. He said the rebranding will delight the smart traveler with what is needed on the road for greater comfort and productivity. “All at the honest value our guests deserve, with perks they don’t expect,” he said, adding that; the hotel will eventually boast 174 guest rooms and suites which will offer stunning views of Dar es Salaam harbour, four restaurants and bars. 12 meeting and conference rooms with the largest meeting room having a capacity of 350 guests, a swimming pool, a gymnasium and a spa. However, the management of the hotel and trading entity name will stay the same as New Africa Hotel (1993) limited.