TANZANIAN Environmentalist Dr Richard Muyungi has been appointed a committee member for an international research firm that deals with Forest Trees and Agro-forestry (FTA)—the Independent Steering Committee (ISC). The ISC oversees at a strategic level the research programming, partnership engagement, delivery and effectiveness of research programmers on forests, trees and agro-forestry. Dr Muyungi is Environmental advisor and has worked in environment and climate change for over 25 years. He has focused on international environmental and climate policy and governance processes under the UN, particularly the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in areas of climate finance, capacity building, adaptation and mitigation. He was the UNFCCC Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) between 2011 and 2013, responsible for overseeing the scientific dialogue and inputs to support the implementation of climate change adaptation and mitigation programmes, globally. The environmentalist has extensive experience at national and continental levels, with most recently appointed to manage environment and climate change at Tanzania’s National Power and Energy Company. He holds a Degree in Agriculture from Sokoine University of Agriculture, a postgraduate diploma in international relations from Reggio Calabria International Relations Institute, Italy, a master’s degree in environmental protection and management from the University of Edinburgh, UK, and PhD in climate change from the University of Dar es Salaam. The ISC consists of nine members. Majority of five members, including the chair, are independent, appointed for a three-year term, renewable once. Three other members represent respectively the Lead Centre, the CGIAR partners and the non- CGIAR partners. The FTA Director participates as ex-officio, with no voting rights. Independent members are appointed by the Board of Trustees and selected in their individual capacity and are not representatives of their respective governments, institutions or organisations. They bring recognised, stateof- the-art scientific expertise in fields relevant to FTA, insights from diverse sectors like national agricultural research systems, development agencies, private sector, civil society, farmer organisations and broaden the perspectives and views of FTA.