“SINCE 2005, Venezuela has provided “heating oil” through subsidies for low income communities in the United States, thanks to our company, CITGO. This contribution has helped tens of thousands of American citizens survive in harsh conditions, giving them relief, and necessary support in times of need; evidencing how solidarity can create powerful alliances across borders…” Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro in a 2016 letter to the people of the United States. THOSE following global news on their TV sets and elsewhere must be concluding that that Latin American country, Venezuela is on the cross-road for a bloody conflict that will arise either from an external invasion of that country by some powerful State(s) in this world or a civil war internally. For the current President of Venezuela, Nicolas Maduro is being challenged by an opposition leader, who claims leadership of the country on the one hand seemingly supported by a unipolar power in the neighborhood, and the country’s armed forces that are reportedly standing behind President Maduro. But President Maduro, according to current news, also enjoys the support of equally powerful states such as Russia and China. This is where we are in so far as developments in that Latin American country, neighboring the United States are concerned. For those watching developments in Venezuela, one thing is clear: this Latin American country has been under sweeping economic blockade imposed by the unipolar power we have in place for over a decade since the days of the socialist oriented Venezuelan President, the late Hugo Chavez. Those following world news broadcast by global TV news networks four years ago must have come across reports of shortages of basic goods which have hit and hurt Venezuela since the passing away of the socialist oriented President Hugo Chavez who preceded current President Maduro. President Maduro, a successor of the late socialist President Hugo Chavez has followed the same socialist political line of his predecessor, who literally put his country on the annals of fame by pursuing a socialist agenda like that of Castro’s Cuba. If one were to go by the quotation at the launch of this perspective, one would form the impression that this Latin American country is far from a poor country; it is oil rich. If it has been able to provide American people with “heating oil”, via its publicly owned company how then, does it find itself in the current situation of shortages everywhere? It was not until I came across a document on the Internet by the Venezuelan leader, Maduro who had written an open letter to the people of the United States four years ago. Follow the letter with me: “The histories of our people have been connected since the beginning of our struggles for freedom. Francisco de Miranda, a Venezuelan hero, met George Washington and Thomas Jefferson during the first few years of the United States as an independent nation. “They discussed about ideals such as liberty and justice, which were fundamental concepts in our struggle for independence. “We share the idea that freedom and independence are fundamental elements for the development of our nations. “But since 2005, Venezuela has provided “heating oil” through subsidies for low income communities in the United States, thanks to our company CITGO. This contribution has helped tens of thousands of American citizens survive in harsh conditions, giving them relief and necessary support in times of need, evidencing how solidarity can create powerful alliances across border.” Going by President Maduro’s statement you have just sampled, one is at a loss on what has happened to Venezuela to suffer crippling shortages we see relayed globally on television and people lining up for this and that of basic needs. If such were excellent relations between the two countries in the Americas, what is it that has provoked sore relations? Is it the prospect of a country in the neighborhood wanting to pursue an ideology, which is socialism - certainly poles apart from what is pursued in the United States? According to President Maduro in his letter to the people of the United States: “Incredibly, the United States government has declared our country a threat to its national security and foreign policy. “In a disproportionate action, one American Administration had issued a ‘National Emergency’ declaring Venezuela a threat to its national security via his Executive Order of 15th September 2015 imposing sanctions,’ writes President Maduro. He adds: “This unilateral and aggressive measure taken by the United States Government against our country is not only unfounded and in violation of basic principles of sovereignty and self determination under international law has also been unanimously rejected by all 33 nations of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States and the 12 member states of the Union of South American nations.” Wound up President Maduro in his letter to American people: “In the name of our long-term friendship, we alert our American brothers and sisters of the illegal aggression committed by your government on your behalf. We will not allow our friendship with the people of the United States to be affected by these groundless sanctions against our country. “Venezuela is not a threat, but I hope independence or nothing.” For us in Tanzania, especially those in the elderly generation reading these lines that were around in this country in the late 1970s and 80s, immediately after the war with Ugandan dictator Iddi Amin, this country also expected widespread shortages of basic goods; similar to those being experienced by Venezuelans. That war rid us of an eccentric dictator across the border and emptied our treasury during the leadership of Mwalimu Nyerere. For Dr. Nyerere was his own man; not the level of a leader who would forget his shoes in haste once beckoned by the big boys of this world to visit them! This is the way I see it in so far as the predicament of Venezuela’s Maduro is concerned. As I wrote in this column four years ago, the powers that be in this world today, never allow a leader in the developing world to be his own man. They need leaders in the Third World who would stay deeply in their pockets, taking orders at their whims and pleasure. It is in this context that I interpret and analyze, what is happening to Venezuela under the leadership of President Nicolas Maduro. What happens to a country that is put on economic blockade by a powerful neighbor for more than a decade? Clearly, one sees a given people suffering all sorts of shortages, as we see the people of Venezuela today. Clearly, in this situation not all the people will clap for a leader who has stood up for their dignity all along, when making ends meet for them, is a nightmare more and so when there is seemingly young puppet posing as their leader for them as the political landscape in Venezuela shows. Certainly, the situation in Venezuela today is a comprehensive textbook for Third World countries, which do not want to have puppet leaders beneath the boots of powerful foreign powers.