PLANS are underway to utilise a trauma care unit at Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH), whose construction was completed in December, last year. Speaking yesterday, BMH Executive Director, Dr Alphonse Chandika said the trauma unit, also known as the casualty department, was vital for the health facility because Dodoma was the centre of highways in the country. “Trauma unit provides care for people, who have had accidents and sustained injuries ranging from major spinal injuries and multiple fractures to smaller orthopaedic injuries and conditions,” said the BMH executive director. Construction has been facilitated by experts from Israel following an agreement between Tanzania and Israel. “Another team of Israeli specialists is due to arrive in the country this month to offer capacity building to local experts on how to operate the trauma care unit,” he said. The trauma unit will be equipped and staffed to provide care for patients suffering from major traumatic injuries. According to Dr Chandika, its services include specialist medical and nursing care, emergency medicine, trauma surgery, critical care, neurosurgery, orthopaedic surgery, anaesthesiology and radiology. Last month, BMH announced to set up a cath lab, an examination room or clinic with diagnostic imaging equipment used for visualising the arteries of the heart, would be launched this month. “Initially, the hospital’s cardiologists will team with Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) experts to operate the cath lab,” he said. Dr Chandika noted that it would help Tanzanian cardiologists to take a leaf from JKCI experts to operate the cath lab. “JKCI is the first public health facility in the country to be equipped with the cath lab,” said the BMH executive director. He noted that the cath lab at the hospital would help people with cardiac complications in Dodoma and neighbouring regions, who had to travel all the way to JKCI in Dar es Salaam for medical treatment to get such services at BMH. “Cath lab is used to perform a number of cardiac interventions and treat any abnormality found in the human heart,” he said. Dr Chandika noted that statistics from the Paediatric Association of Tanzania (PAT) showed that at least 13,600 infants born with cardiac complications in the country annually, 3,400 of them had to undergo surgery.