POLICE have cautioned mobile phone users over rising wave of social engineering fraud where fraudsters trick, deceive and manipulate their victims into giving out confidential information and funds. The police said the scams fall under cybercrime and target to manipulate mainly those frequently transacting money using mobile phone platforms. An official with Police Cybercrime Unit, Assistant Superintend of Police (ASP), Joshua Mwangasa, said victims of social engineering fraud should cooperate with the police to ease investigation on the matter. “Social engineered crimes are techniques used by cyber criminals to winning subscribers’ trust where they may expose their passwords or other secret codes, they (victims) may even transact money through online and mobile money services to the thugs,” ASP Mwangasa said. The police are said to run regular online patrols, hence, the criminals have opted to social engineered crimes which are tricky and safety depend on victim’s response. “Report all sorts of technological crimes to the police for action than staying quiet as the criminals are trying to change their modus operand to bypass the law enforcing organs,” the police cybercrime expert said. Scams are carried out online – for example, by email or through social networking sites – by telephone, or even in person. These criminals exploit a person’s trust in order to find out their banking or mobile money account details, passwords or other personal data. He further said that other types of cybercrimes are controlled to the promising extent after the 2015 cybercrime act came into action. “A resilient infrastructure goes with growing technology, we have to make sure people use it safely than being vulnerable to criminals’ traps,” he insisted. ASP Mwangasa told the members of press on Monday at the sideline of the conference discussing how to create a resilient infrastructural Tanzania. B&F Consult Director, Bruno Kinyaga, said that the workshop brought together public and private stakeholders to discuss and come out with a solution of developing infrastructures that protect environments but sustainable for economic development through industrialisation. Latest Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) data show there are 23.37 million mobile money users in the country as at December 2018.