TANZANIA Fellowship of Churches (TFC) is conducting a four-day National Prayers for President John Magufuli (JPM) as he prepares to relocate to Dodoma from Dar es Salaam. The coordinator of the prayers, Bishop Dr Godfrey Emmanuel said here at a congregation on Sunday that his church wanted to prepare a conducive environment through prayers so that the government can be able to discharge its duties by embracing God on every plan that it has put in place. Based in Dar-es-Salaam, under the visionary leadership of Bishop Emmanuel, TFC has been conducting prayers for the nation for 21 years now, since it was established in the country in 1998. “We have been convening here in Dodoma for a fourday seminar to hold prayers for our president, who has on several occasions been asking clerics in the country to pray for him. He said his church was praying for his journey from the Magogoni State House in Dar es Salaam to Dodoma’s Chamwino State House. Initially, Dr Magufuli had planned to relocate from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma before the end of last year, but in December, 2018 Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, said the Head of State was set to shift from the country’s commercial capital to the country’s headquarters any time from last month. “Today, Tanzania is winning world accolades because of the strong leadership of Dr Magufuli and unlike in the previous years, today, Tanzania is well known and recognised worldwide,’’ added Bishop Emmanuel. The TFC Bishop further said the country will never be controlled by devils as the Fifth Phase Government had decided to put everything in the hands of God. “Because of the voices of people during the ballot box in 2015, today, Tanzania is a role model for Africa,’’ he noted. According to Bishop Emmanuel, TFC initiates fellowships, churches and other related ministries to maintain evangelism and make discipleship continue in Tanzania and worldwide. “Through its cell group system, TFC has a compassionate involvement in the service to both individuals and families in communities,’’ he said. With a new branch in the country’s headquarters— Dodoma, the church is also involved in nation building activities, such as educating and equipping the youth, through seminars, to impact nations and become law abiding citizens, fight against poverty, HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns, environment protection, parental and family education, among others. According to Bishop Emmanuel the church will continue holding national prayers and it plans to hold the biggest prayers for three days in Dar es Salaam, later this year between July 25 and 27.