COMMON misconceptions that Islamic finance industry is exclusively for Muslims are impeding growth of shariacompliant financing in East Africa, says the head of a top Islamic banking and finance institution. Mr Zubair Mughal, the Chief Executive Officer of United Arab Emirates-based AlHuda Centre of Islamic Banking and Economics (CIBE), told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that the main challenge to the growth of Islamic banking and finance in the region was the commonly held misconception that they offer services to Muslims only. “In East Africa there is a misconception whereby people perceive that Islamic finance is only for Muslims. This is a misconception due to lack of awareness. Islamic banking and finance is a product that can be utilised by Muslims and non- Muslims,” said Mr Mughal, who was in the country last week. The CIBE boss said Islamic finance industry is not exclusively for Muslims and encouraged Tanzanians to adopt its services regardless of their religion or financial background. Although the products and services are catered primarily to meeting Muslims’ financial needs, there are no restrictions should a non-Muslim wishes to utilise the same, he said. He said lack of public awareness on such Islamic alternative modes of banking, insurance and investments has been one of the main impediments to Islamic finance growth in the country in Tanzania. “There are a lot of misconceptions on these Islamic banking services among the people. The banking system is a much better alternative to the conventional or interest-based banking system. The industry must continuously engage and educate the public… Islamic banking is not for only Muslims but for all people with different backgrounds of religion and races. Tanzania has big potential for this kind of finance which is yet to be fully exploited,” he said. Mr Mughal said that Islamic Banking and Finance market in Tanzania seemed to be promising, and that there were five banks offering the services with one being full-fledge while others were looking forward to entering such a niche market. He called on more researches with discourse being carried out at all levels and involving regulators, practitioners as well as academicians, advising the government to also prioritise Islamic Banking in its policies to boost financial services and inclusive economy in the country. KCB Bank is among of financial institutions offering Islamic Banking services in Tanzania where Head of Department, Mr Rashid Rashid admitted that a number of Muslim clients overshadowed people of other religions due to misconceptions. At the same time, Mr Rashid confirmed that not only people with other religious faiths but also some Muslims were reluctant to have the services, thinking that the offered services, in terms of loans, were those of monthly interest/levies while their religious faith strictly forbade them to engage in any interest-oriented business. “But we intensify regular education in various ways, including media, which seemed to have bringing positive results. Those who benefit from our services do also educate their fellows,” said Mr Rashid.