AFTER successfully staging last month golf mug, the Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Course of Mangapwani, Zanzibar has now set date for February Monthly Mug tournament. The 18 holes tournament which will be second for this year monthly mug events, is scheduled for February 24 at the par 72 course. The club General Manager, Elias Soka told the ‘Sunday News’ from Zanzibar yesterday that preparation are going on well for them to stage the February mug. “I want to take this opportunity to thank all those who turned up and made the January Monthly Mug a success,” he said. Soka added that the par 3 format tournament that was generously sponsored by Sea Cliff Resort & Spa of Zanzibar and Tulia Zanzibar Unique Beach Resort also aimed at opening the club’s 2019 calendar of events. The January mug saw overall winner title of the par 3 competition going to hosts Elia John. Handicap 24 John scooped the top prize after posting 35 stable ford points to win a complimentary of two rounds of golf (All Inclusive) and dinner for two at Tulia Beach Resort, Courtesy of Tulia Zanzibar. Runner up winner was Kyle Veitch handicap 17 also from Sea Cliff Golf Club Zanzibar with 32 points. He won a complimentary dinner for two at Tulia Beach Resort, Courtesy of Tulia Zanzibar. Gulam Dewji from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) handicap 24 also was all but smiles after he earned third place and was awarded a complimentary dinner for two at the hosts Five Star Resort— Courtesy of Sea Cliff Resort and Spa Zanzibar. Soka said: “We are now looking forward to have a wonderful February Mug, we welcome all golfers to register.” He said that the event is open for both men and lady golfers with valid handicaps, while invitations have already been extended to other clubs and individual golfers for them to consider. Soka said that the club was still looking for sponsors for February and March Mug and appealed for companies wishing to sponsor the events to come forward. The course has taken Tanzania to the global focus after winning last year’s World Best Par 3 Golf Course Awards during World Golf Awards ceremony. Soka said that the club was working tirelessly to put in better condition and ensure they are able to compete and win as many awards possible.