THE Chief Justice (CJ), Prof Ibrahim Juma, yesterday directed new High Court Judges who were appointed by President John Magufuli recently to be accountable and observe several codes of ethics, which are important to win and maintain trust of citizens. Opening induction training for 15 new judges at the Institute of Judicial Administration, Kisutu Training and Information Resources Centre in Dar es Salaam, the CJ reiterated the importance of new Judges to pay high regard to their accountability as Judges. "I m sure you all know that it is self-evident that every vocation, profession or calling has its own rules of conduct, or dos and don'ts, applicable to its members; and the judicial calling is no exception," he said at the occasion also attended by Principal Judge, Dr Eliezer Fereshi, among several other judicial officers. According to him, judges as senior judicial officers were not only subject to the laws of Tanzania just like any other citizens, but also within the radar of several codes of ethics which are important to win and maintain trust of the citizens. He pointed out that judicial standards of conduct were important because they enhance confidence in the judicial process as well as fostering a culture of judicial independence by providing the conduct expected from judges in their relationship with the public, judicial system and with the legal profession. "Your accountability also extends to your duty to deliver justice expeditiously; of impartiality, of remaining competent and diligent. No Judiciary can remain standing when it loses trust and reputation to the citizens," Prof Juma told the new members of the bench at the high court level. He also reminded the newly sworn in Judges, most of whom have more than 15 years of judicial service ahead; that the legal challenges they will face in the remaining years of the 21st Century will be markedly different from legal issues which Judges of the 20th Century faced two decades ago. "The challenges facing you, the 21st Century Judges, are many, and the Judiciary of Tanzania will increasingly require each one of you to be creative, innovative and ready to test any new frontiers of jurisprudence," Prof Juma said. He pointed out that the extent of challenges which Judges should expect in this 21st Century was loudly echoed by none other than the third President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Mr Benjamin William Mkapa in the fore-word he wrote for the Tanzania Development Vision 2025. Summarising the quotation of the former Head of State, the CJ said, "Tanzania of 21st Century needs Judges who appreciate that there is much more competition in the world, and Judges should embrace advanced technology, their productivity should be competitively high. "Judges must be modern with reform-minded attitude. They must not only be efficient; they must be highly skilled on their judicial functions and imbued with initiative and innovation." He said that the very moment the new judges were sworn in on January 29, 2019, they automatically become part of the strategic Vision of the Judiciary seeking to assure citizens with "Timely and Accessible Justice for All". According to him, the Judges after taking oath of new office also became part of the Mission of the Judiciary of Tanzania of "administering justice to all through timely provision of quality, fair, transparent and impartial decisions." “As senior leaders of the the Judiciary of Tanzania, you have also sworn to stand and support three strategic pillars of "Good Governance, Accountability and Optimal Resource Management; Accessibility and Expeditious of Justice Delivery; and Public Trust and Stakeholders Engagement." "These are our DNA, so to speak. I would like to invite you all to be part of the momentum which was unleashed by the Five Year Strategic Plan. Judges will be part of the wheels taking justice services closer to the people living in urban and rural areas," the CJ further said. Prof Juma was hopeful that by periodic upgrading of their skills and performances, the new Judges will assist wananchi to reach the goals of spending less time in court and more time in the production of goods and services, hence supporting the Judiciary's philosophy of "Justice nearest to the citizens." Speaking at the same occasion, Principal Judge Dr Eliezer Feleshi said that the induction course was one of the important aspects to the newly appointed judges because it based on a forum where they will be welcomed to the Judiciary and introduced to documents in the administration of justice.