THE Lake Zone regions are leading with a huge number of eye cataract patients, at least 500,000 of whom are currently in need of urgent intervention. An ophthalmologist with the Bugando Medical Centre (BMC), Dr Christopher Mwanansao, told reporters here on Tuesday that the situation is tense as the country still suffers acute shortage of ophthalmologists and eye surgeons to effectively attend to the problem. He made the revelation as he was giving a briefing on the ongoing services provided by visiting experts from the US and India who are at BMC for a number of exchange programmes, including conducting surgeries to the patients with eye cataracts. “So we have a problem especially in the Lake Zone where there are reportedly about 500,000 people with eye cataracts; which amounts to 50 percent of all the eye cases in the country, mainly facing elderly people aged 50 and above,” he said. According to Dr Mwanansao, the situation is really bad as the country’s capacity to contain the ailment keeps dwindling, citing the Lake Zone region which has only three eye surgeons two based in Mwanza’s BMC and one in Bukoba Hospital in Kagera Region. The five visiting surgeons came from Weill Cornel Medical Centre and Moran Eye Centre in the US as well as Aravind Eye Hospital in India who, in collaboration with Dr Mwanansao, are conducting a four day surgery camp where about 100 patients will be attended by tomorrow. He said the patients, especially those without medical insurance covers, will be attended for free and those with insurance covers will be attended according to their schemes. One of the experts, Dr Grace Sun, an Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology at the Weill Cornel Medical Centre was of the view that the application of new technology as well as timely reporting to hospitals could be helpful in combating the problem in the country. She said among the programmes the visiting experts will accomplish at BMC include capacity building programmes for local experts, besides introduction to the new technology which is vastly recommended in conducting cataract surgeries. “There are new high tech approaches around which are used in the US and can be used here as well that perform the cataract surgery within ten minutes down from 15 to 20 minutes in the past,” said Dr Sun. One of the long time cataract victims, Selestine Misungwi (73) thanked BMC for inviting foreign experts to come and support the locals and requested the government to increase investments in ensuring that specialists in different medical fields are increased. As a result of huge congestion in hospitals, coupled with poverty and ignorance among many patients, a substantial number of victims don’t attend hospitals for timely attention, citing his own example, as he lived with cataracts for more than ten years. “The situation is even worse in rural settings where many of our colleagues still apply traditional methods in trying to treat complicated cases like eye cataracts. The government and BMC in particular should deploy more efforts to overcome the problem,” he said.