PROFESSIONAL golfer Bryceson Nyenza excelled at the New Year Golf Fiddle tournament held at the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club in Dar es Salaam on Friday. The first fiddle tournament of this year witnessed competitive battles and the club officials described the event as a success. The 18 holes stable ford tournament was graced by club Chairman, Michael Luwongo, who also presented prizes to winners of different categories. Luwongo praised winners and Lugalo players, who excelled at different national competitions held last year. He was pleased to welcome New Year in style by recognising golfers who raised high Lugalo flag outside the club. Luwongo said the club will keep the spirit as they gear up to build up strong team capable to conquer East Africa and Africa in the near future. “We want Lugalo to continue dominating the game, not only in the country but beyond,” said Luwongo. The tournament was also used as inauguration of this year’s weekly Friday fiddle event. Luwongo said: “Fiddle events are very important to bring us together and help compete at high level. We also use every Friday as platform to provide new Golf Rules to our players. The new rules have started to be implemented this January. Nyenza beat other competitors to win Division A top prize on countback after tied on 29 points with Marius Kajuna. The count back saw handicap five Kajuna finishing second. Professionals were invited to compete with amateurs in Division A, to stir competition among players, as few compete in the category. John Hiza handicap 18 was tournament top scorer with 38 points to earn Division B top prize and Malawian Karino Kondwani handicap 12 hits 36 points in second spot. Division C top prize went to Sai Kaphale handicap 24 with 28 points, beating his closest challenger George Kivalia. Professor Mohabe Nyirabu handicap six stole the show in senior category, finishing top of the group with 30 points, while Boniface Nyiti a Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) hon Secretary, playing off handicap seven returned 28 in second spot. Ladies top prize went to handicap 18 Stella Mbunda with 30 points and handicap 24 Joyce Warega had 29 to finish second.