YOUNG Africans killed winless jinx against Mbao FC at the CCM-Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza, following a 2-1 win yesterday. Ndaki Robert stunned Yanga with a first half strike, while Heritier Makambo and Amissi Tambwe netted a goal apiece in the second as the Jangwani Street lads registered their first victory against Mbao in Mwanza. Since earning promotion into the top flight football three seasons ago, Mbao have always been a hard nut to crack whenever they faced Yanga at the CCM Kirumba—winning all matches in the 2016/17 season and 2017/18 season. Yanga stretched their lead at the summit of the league table, after posting 61 points from 25 outings. Mwinyi Zahera charges have now opened an 11-point gap with second placed Azam FC, strengthening their chances of winning the league title for record 28 times. Victory also provided a perfect relief for Yanga fans, who had nothing to celebrate following last weekend’s 1-0 defeat at the hands of their traditional rivals Simba. It was a game of two halves, in which, Mbao were better team in the first half, while Yanga came into the second half a completely changed side. From the onset, hosts Mbao looked a livelier and likely side to score and just three minutes into the game striker, Pastory Athanas took a sharp turn and his snap ground shot inside the box sailed wide. In the 21st minute Said Junior screwed a curving shot from the left but narrowly missed the target and in the 36th minute, Athanas was allowed a free header inside the box from a corner kick but couldn’t find the target. Three minutes before the break, Mbao survived a real scare, when Yanga charged forward. Skipper Ibrahim Ajib displayed clever display on the right but Makambo failed to make contact with playmaker’s low cross inside the box. Mbao went ahead a minute before the interval when Robert powered in with a bullet header. It all started from a perfect cross in by Said Junior, which was met with perfect header by Robert to beat goalkeeper, Ramadhani Kabwili at the near post. Yanga came in the second half a rejuvenated and changed side, pinning their hosts in the half. In the 49th minute, Makambo pumped in a header, connecting home Papy Kabamba Tshishimbi’s cross from the right side. The Congolese striker bagged his 12th goal of the campaign to tie with Mwadui FC striker Salim Aye in the lead for golden boot race. From then, Yanga were on ascendency, sending a number of forays upfront and Haruna Moshi almost found the back of the net in the 59th minute after being set up by Ajib but the veteran midfielder fluffed with a chance. Mbao Head Coach Ally Bushiri opted to change tactics, calling out Pastory Athanas and Gervas Jonas for Peter Mwangosi and Chechembe respectively. Goal scorer Robert was also rested but changes seemed to negatively impact Mbao. Referee Ally Simba awarded Yanga penalty in the 67th minute. A cross in by Kelvin Yondani was handed by defender, Erick Muliro in the box. Tambwe stepped up and sent the keeper the wrong way. In the 70th minute, Zahera made tactical changes, bringing on central defender, Andrew Vincent for Tambwe and three minutes later, Yanga almost netted the third but Makambo’s effort was cleared of the line. Deus Kaseke replaced Ajib in the 75th minute and in the 82nd minute Mohamed Issa Banka came in for Ngasa as Yanga slowed down the tempo