THE African Academy of Sciences (AAS) yesterday announced its Research Management Programme in Africa (ReMPro)that will strengthen institutional research management functions and maximise time spent on research and innovation. ReMPro is a response to the critical gaps that were identified in building the continent’s research and development ecosystems that support a vibrant research culture and leadership. AAS Director of Programmes, Professor Tom Kairuki, said the overall goal of ReMPro Africa was to address systemic level challenges at African institutions in creating and sustaining enabling research environments for flourishing of research. “For years, African researchers have routinely been spending upwards of 80 per cent of their working week on routine administration, working evenings and weekends to carry out their research. This can threaten the delivery, integrity and quality of research, which is why specialist research management services are needed to free up their time for research,” he said. Prof Kairuki said the programme was a result of consultation with stakeholders, including university management from across the continent conducted by AAS over the past three years, in which the findings revealed that researchers funded by AAS were spending a disproportionate amount of time on administration. In response, The AAS and partners have identified research management as a critical gap that is being addressed as one of the four strategic priorities for the Alliance for Accelerating Excellence in Science in Africa (AESA), the agenda-setting and funding platform created by the Academy and the African Union Development Agency. “The AAS recognises that the business of doing research is all-encompassing, and creating conducive environments in Africa is essential to maximise research output and impact on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” said Ms Allen Mukhwana, Head of ReMPro Africa. Ms Mukhwana said ReMPro Africa will focus on four themes, including embracing leadership, sustainable funding mechanisms, common standards and best practice, career development and training. ReMPRO Africa is backed by Wellcome, the UK Department for International Development (DFID), the Royal Society, the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). It is expected to leverage more funding for research management to ensure a long-term approach to transforming the field in the continent. “Success in all organisations is underpinned by strong governance and management, research is no different. Through the support of Wellcome and other funders for ReMPro Africa, we hope that not only are institutional research management systems strengthened, but more importantly the staff who lead these vital services see some of the world’s biggest funders right behind them and acknowledging their pivotal role in a productive research system” said Head of International Operations and Partnerships at Wellcome, Dr Simon Kay.