TANZANIAN lady Failuna Abdi Matanga overpowered tough rivals to win the Safi International Half Marathon held over the weekend in Casablanca, Morocco. Matanga, who recently won the 10km discipline of the national cross country race, emerged the winner of the 21k m half marathon for ladies after clocking 1 hour, 10 minutes and 50 seconds. Failuna, as well beat the event’s record holder from Ethiopia, Asnakesh Awoke Mengesha, who used 1 hour, 10 minutes and 57 seconds and Hiwoti Ayalew Yemer, also from Ethiopia who clocked 1 hour, 11 minutes and 01 second at the second and third positions respectively. Failuna, apparently used the delaying tactic during the race. She was buying time and she only increased speed and pressure, and finally breaking through with just one kilometre to run. Kenya’s Bernard Kipkorir Ng’eno topped the male’s category at the Safi International Half Marathon, smashing the course records with the winning time of 1:01:06. He was followed by Gizachew Hailu Negasa from Ethiopia who spent 1:01:33. The Tanzanian who finished in the top ten position was Faraja Damas from the National Service (JKT) who was placed 6th after using 1 hour 2 minutes and 20 seconds to cover the 21 kilometres of the race. The Secretary General for Athletics Association of Tanzania (RT), Wilhelm Gidabuday, said he was impressed by Failuna’s performance; “We have finally proved, that Tanzania can beat Kenyans and Ethiopians in running events,” he said. According to Gidabuday, most local athletics love to participate in International races overseas but snub local events, however Failuna is both active in the country just as well as at the global level. Failuna is among the Tanzanian athletes who will be representing the country in the Denmark’s World Cross-Country Championship coming upon the 30th of March 2019. The Arusha based athletic has also excelled and chosen to participate in the forthcoming IAAF World Championships in Athletics to be held in Doha, Qatar, next September. “It was a nice race, a good atmosphere, and next year I will be back,” said Ngeno, who took home 30,000 Moroccan Dirham (Euro 2770/ 3141 US dollar) for the victory. “Next year I will come and reach another level.”