FARMERS need more training and advice on better ways of reducing side effects of highly hazardous pesticides (HHPs) on human health and the environment. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Agenda Programme Principal, Dorah Swai stressed the importance of providing training to both sellers and users. “A survey we conducted has established that HHPs are among the pesticides registered by the national pesticides registration body, the Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI) under the Ministry of Agriculture, but so far there is no clear plan to provide education or phase them out,” she noted. She added that most sellers and users of pesticides were not informed on how to identify and handle HHPs and had not been provided with the list of registered pesticides and there were no specific guidelines provided to identify them. HHPs means pesticides acknowledged presenting particularly high levels of acute or chronic hazards to health or environment, according to internationally accepted classification systems such as that of the World Health Organisation (WHO) or Global Harmonised System (GHS) or their listing in relevant binding international agreements, such as the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM). Ms Swai noted further that UN’s special report on human rights and toxic substances and a right to food agreed with the need to phase out HHPs, promote agro-ecology and consider unvoluntary exposure to hazardous pesticides as a human rights violation. In addition, she said small-scale farmers in developing countries in particular did not have protective gear and mostly used backpack sprayers that posed a high risk of exposure. She said restriction on the use of such highly hazardous products often proved hard to enforce, thus leading to widespread use by untrained persons. A high number of poisoning cases, contaminated food and environmental damage can be the result. The officer said Tanzania had been actively participating in SAICM, which highlighted a need for action on highly hazardous pesticides to protect the health of pesticide users and rural communities exposed to pesticides in their living and working environments, including consumers of food carrying pesticide residues and the environment, including biodiversity essential for sustainable agricultural production. According to her, among the actions proposed in the strategic guidelines led by FAO and WHO include the identification of highly hazardous pesticides in use by comparing the list of registered pesticides against highly hazardous pesticide criteria.