COURT of Appeal has confirmed the 25 years in jail and over 3bn/- fine on Vuyo Jack over trafficking 34,660 grammes of heroin hydrochloride, the narcotic drugs. Justices Stella Mugasha, Richard Mziray and Jacobs Mwambegele dismissed the appeal in which Jack, the appellant, had lodged in attempt to fault the findings of the High Court, arguing that it lacked merits. They noted that the conviction of the appellant basically hinged on credibility of prosecution witnesses from Customs, Anti Drugs Unit and Immigration Department offices, who were present at the crime scene, in particular at the time when Jack was apprehended. The justices pointed out that the cumulative testimonial account of the witnesses is that, the narcotic drugs were retrieved from the appellant’s motor vehicle following a search which was conducted by customs officer at Tunduma areas in the presence of the appellant himself. “The evidence is direct. As correctly found by the trial court, we find no cogent reasons to disbelieve the credible account of the eye witnesses on what transpired at the search and the retrieval of the drugs from the appellant’s car,” they said. Moreover, the justices said, the credible account of witnesses was cemented by documentary evidence contained in certificate of search and seizure and the notice of seizure, whereby the appellant who was searched, signed the documents and acknowledged to have been found with the narcotic drugs. “We are satisfied that the available credible account of (prosecution) witnesses and documentary account contained in (the two exhibits) point to the guilt of the appellant to have been found trafficking in drugs in his motor vehicle on November 18, 2010,” they said. There were complaints by the appellant on the discrepancy of the weight of, if any, the narcotic drugs by which it allegedly broken the chain of custody and if there was fraudulent interference of the narcotic drugs as observed by the trial judge when delivering his verdict. In their judgment delivered at the Court’s Registry in Mbeya, however, the justices of the appeals court ruled that the complaints were fuelled or rather instigated by the trial judge who did not properly evaluate the evidence on record. “We say so because, according to the evidence of (the witnesses) none of them testified that, at Tunduma each of the 37 packets was weighed separately. What is vivid is that, the 37 packets were grouped into three and packed in three boxes which altogether weighed at 42,500 grammes,” he said. They were also of a view that, the chain of custody was not broken from the time of arrest, to the testing by the Chief Government Chemist and tendering in the trial court, as per the evidence of eye witnesses. The witnesses had all testified that the 37 packets in the appellant’s motor vehicle were handed over to a senior police officer, before transmitting them to Chief Government Chemist, who confirmed to have received 37 packets, tested them and found 34 of them to be narcotic drugs. Moreover, the justices further noted, during the trial all the officers who handled the narcotic drugs weighed at 34,664 grammes valued at 1,039,920,000/- from arrest, storage, transmission to and from the Government Chemist, valuation and production were all paraded as prosecution witnesses. “Besides, (the drugs were) tendered in evidence and identified (by the witnesses). As such, there was no fraudulent interference of the chain of custody as wrongly concluded by the trial judge who, with respect, we find to have mishandled the evidence,” they said. It was alleged that, on November 18, 2010 at Tunduma area within Mbozi District, Songwe Region, Jack and Anastacia Cloete were found transporting 34,660 grammes of heroin hydrochloride in the motor vehicle with Registration No. CA-S08- 650 Make Nissan Hard Body the property of the appellant. Facts show that on November 17, 2010, a Customs employee at Makambako received a tip from an informer that the vehicle, from Morogoro to South Africa via Tunduma border had carried narcotic drugs. Having notified the Regional Manager and the Tunduma Customs Deport, the customs officer was allowed to make a follow up and travelled to Tunduma. On arrival, he found the car parked at the Tunduma Customs Office with the driver, the appellant and a half caste lady inside the vehicle. Interviewed, the appellant said they were destined for South Africa and he was waiting for customs clearance. Since it was suspected the motor vehicle had the drug consignment, an officer from Anti Drug Unit in Mbozi had to be notified. On being informed that his motor vehicle was suspected to have carried drugs and that it had to be inspected, the appellant denied and claimed to be carrying diamonds. As the appellant’s word could not be trusted, in his presence, a search was conducted. Nothing was found from the appellant’s personal belongings inside the motor vehicle. Then, using a special instrument which had a mirror and facilitated looking underneath the chassis of the motor vehicle, the officers saw a cloth hanging which could not be easily pulled down. A mechanic was called to assist in pulling down the cloth down whereby several packets fell down from the motor vehicle and other packets were found hidden in the mudguard and the body. In a further search, the motor vehicle was overturned and the chassis was unsealed where other packets were retrieved all totalling 37. In the presence of the appellant, one of the officers using a special kit tested three packets and preliminary results showed their contents to be narcotic drugs.