TANZANIA traders have been urged to take advantage of market opportunities in Ukraine particularly export of coffee and spices to grow their business and increase export revenue. Speaking to reporters in Dar es salaam yesterday during the meeting to discuss business opportunities between Tanzania and Ukraine, the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TANTRADE) Acting Manager of Planning and Research, Mr John Fwalo said that business opportunities between the two countries has continued to grow for local entrepreneurs to capitalize. He said discussions aimed at looking at strategies on how Tanzanians will be able to take advantage of this opportunity to trade with Ukraine. “We are here to discuss and encourage Tanzanians to conduct their business with Ukraine especially in coffee, various spices and other industrial products. The opportunity would help to boost their business and improve Ukraine market with Tanzanians,” he said. Mr Fwalo said that the opportunity will help to ensure Tanzania products are increasing in Ukraine markets and how will add value in both markets. “The opportunity is available for coffee traders who will meet the criteria. We advised small businessman to join in order to promote their business and be easily to use this available opportunities,” he said. Amir Hamza, coffee trader said that the opportunity would help to promote our products in Ukraine and to expand coffee market worldwide. “This is the unique opportunity to coffee traders in Tanzania. Ukraine has many trade opportunities that would help to promote traders and their business. We expect the available opportunity will increase income to many coffee traders and national at large. He said that in order to meet the criteria of conducting our business with Ukraine, Tanzania traders should have partnership to expand their business and to increase their income. Tanzania Food Processing Industrial Association (TAFOPA) National Chairperson, Ms Suzy Laizer said that this is the time for Tanzania traders to join together in order to use this opportunity of trading with Ukraine in various areas specific in industrial products. We are producing cheese seeds in our associations. The products have a big opportunity in Ukraine. We expect to use this opportunity to benefit many people worldwide. We thank TANTRADE for this special opportunity to Tanzanians,” she explained.