TANZANIA will tomorrow host the 6th Zambezi Watercourse Commission (Zamcom) summit at Julius Nyerere International Conference Centre in Dar es Salaam. The event will be attended by at least 100 ministers from eight members states – Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Malawi, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe and the host Tanzania. This is an occasion for Tanzania not only to share views on how better to utilise Zamcom in terms of furthering its objectives, but also advertise the country’s investment opportunities and tourist attractions to member states. On the other hand, the event is an opportunity to share ideas and experience and take on board what fits each participating nation’s development vision, especially in water resource utilisation and management. This fits well in the fifth government’s agenda of attaining the industrial and middle-income economy by 2025 as it is through irrigation farming that Tanzania will be able to produce enough raw materials for industries and be able to export finished products and thus earn foreign currency. Zamcom is a water management organisation established by member states of the Southern African Development Community (Sadc), whose territory contains Zambezi River Basin. Zambezi is the fourth largest river in Africa after the Nile, Congo and Niger. Zamcom operates in line with the revised Sadc Protocol on Shared Watercourses adopted in 1995 and by Sadc member states, including all Zambezi riparian states and it came into force in 1998. The aim of the Protocol is to foster cooperation among member states to protect, manage and use shared watercourses in the Sadc region. In light of this, member states undertake to cooperate on projects and exchange information on shared watercourses, consulting with each other and collaborating on initiatives that balance the development of watercourses and environmental conservation. Since the aim of Zamcom is to promote the equitable and reasonable utilisation of water resources of the Zambezi watercourse and its efficient management and sustainable development, we appeal to participants to make the best use of the event for the benefit of each member state. This is because there are lot of the participating nations can share and take on board to enrich each nation’s development agenda. In view of this, we believe each member state will share on how best to utilise irrigation projects, power projects, rainwater harvesting projects and water supply projects. We say this taking into consideration that Tanzania, through Lake Nyasa contributes 11.3 per cent of water resource to Zambezi River. So, we wish Zamcom participants successful exchange of information and better utilisation of water resources for the benefit of current and future generations.