THE facilitator of the Inter Burundi Dialogue (IBD), Mr Benjamin William Mkapa (pictured), has denied reports of his withdrawal from the assignment bestowed on him by the East African Community (EAC) Heads of State. In a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’ on Thursday, a personal secretary to the former Tanzanian President, Mr Makocha Tembele maintained that Mr Mkapa’s role in facilitating IBD had come to an end, contrary to reports that indicated that he had ditched the talks. “Mr Mkapa has finished his part, which was basically facilitating the dialogue; he has now handed over the report to the Summit which is now chaired by Rwandan President, Paul Kagame,” clarified Mr Tembele. He insisted that the former statesman had successfully completed his task which was to facilitate the IBD, adding that the ball was now on Mr Museveni’s court to proceed with the mediation process. “When he was appointed the facilitator, Mr Mkapa was tasked with finding out the cause of the Burundi crisis as well as bringing the warring factions on the negotiating table, a responsibility he duly finalised,” he said. “That’s why he has already presented his report to the 20th Heads of State Summit in Arusha last week.” Mr Tembele’s clarification comes amidst reports that Mr Mkapa had withdrawn himself from the role of facilitating the IBD, citing ‘lack of seriousness’ from the warring factions in the Burundi crisis. The revelations come as unverified reports went viral on Thursday about Mr Mkapa’s resignation from the post. For the better part of the day, the internet was awash with reports about Mr Mkapa’s decision to write to the outgoing Chairperson of the Summit, Ugandan President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni and the EAC Secretariat about his wish to step down from his position. The EAC Secretariat, through its spokesperson Mr Richard Owora, acknowledged to have heard the rumours, but denied receiving such a letter from the office of the facilitator. “That is the rumour making rounds, but I have not seen the letter,” insisted Mr Owora. He however revealed that Mr Mkapa is understood to have dropped the bombshell before the 20th EAC Heads of State Summit that converged here last week. “I understand that Mr Mkapa made it clear to the EAC Heads of State that the parties in the four year crisis weren’t serious with the talks,” revealed Mr Owora. According to the EAC spokesperson, the former Tanzanian statesman is said to have claimed that he was now ‘old for the task’, an indication that he was willing to call it a day in the dialogue. Since being appointed as the facilitator for the Burundi peace talks by the EAC during the 17th Ordinary Summit of EAC Heads of State in Arusha, Tanzania on March 2, 2016, Mr Mkapa has convened a number of dialogues and met the warring factions in a bid to end the political and humanitarian crisis that has rocked the East African nation. The dialogue has however had its share of disappointments. In July 12, 2016, representatives from political parties that participated in the country’s general election boycotted the second round of the inter Burundi dialogue that converged in Arusha. The five political parties are said to have expressed their displeasure over Mr Mkapa’s decision of inviting Burundians allegedly responsible in the human rights violations and the near over of embattled president, Pierre Nkurunziza in May 2015. In October last year, representatives from opposition political parties, civil societies and special groups shunned the fifth Burundi Inter Dialogue that was convened at the Ngurdoto Mountain Lodge Hotel in Arusha. This was supposed to be the last dialogue that sought to bring a lasting resolve to the country’s crisis. Bringing down the 20th EAC Heads of State Summit last week, the regional leaders gave no word on the outcome of the IBD. The presidents and representatives from the six partner states failed to deliver a way forward or make the outcome of the IBD which seeks to end the political and humanitarian crisis in the East African nation. Delivering a communiqué on behalf of the six leaders last Friday, EAC Secretary General, Libérat Mfumukeko acknowledged that the Summit had received the report on the IBD from Tanzanian former President, Benjamin William Mkapa who also facilitated the talks. “The summit thanked the facilitator for his contribution to the dialogue during his tenure… the summit decided to consult further on the IBD process,” said the EAC boss. Burundi’s deadly violence erupted after President Nkurunziza announced a controversial run for a third term, which he won in a contested presidential election. The opposition has maintained that he was violating the constitution’s two-term limit as well as the Arusha agreement that ended Burundi’s 12-year civil war.