KILIMANJARO Marathon 2019 organisers have said there will be a temporary road closure in Moshi town on Sunday for the safety of runners and spectators. A statement issued by the organisers said this announcement is to enable Moshi residents plan well as some roads will be closed for some time to enable safe operation of the race. “Motorists should at all times be aware of the potential of encountering runners on the roads, so drive carefully and slowly,” said the statement in part. The statement said on March 3, Vehicles from Arusha will not be able to pass the YMCA Corner / Askari Round About in the direction of Dar es Salaam from 0630– 0830. Vehicles from Dar / Marangu /Himo will not be able to pass in the direction of Moshi after 0630, until 0830 and the road from Machame to Sokoine Road will be closed at Shanty Town road at 0600. According to the organisers, the road from Rau to Moshi will be closed for the Grand Malt Fun run from 0715– 0800. With regards to parking for runners, the organisers said in their statement that there are two areas at Mocu East- Access via Uru Road, into the Mocu grounds and at CCP [Moshi Police College –access from Kilimanjaro Road, into the CCP grounds. Daladalas will be allowed to drop passengers at either of the above parking areas, or at the road sides but there will be no access to Mocu from Sokoine Road from 0600, so if coming from this side will have to drop at corner Sokoine and Kilimanjaro Road. Meanwhile, the number collection exercise moves to Moshi today (Wednesday) and tomorrow at the Keys Hotel. According to the organisers, this is the final station. “Race number collection will occur on February 27th (10:00 – 17:00) and February 28th (10:00 – 20:00) at Keys Hotel where runners who pre-entered for the full and half marathon, and fun run will collect their numbers and there will be registration for the fun run as well,” said the statement. “We will also allocate 1 March (10:00 –17:00) and 2 March (9:00 –12:00) for outstanding race number collection only for full marathon, half marathon and fun run for preentered only. There will be no registration at all during these two days and none on race day (Sunday 3 March),” said the organisers adding that they will not be responsible for those who will travel to Moshi after the numbers are all sold because participants had ample time to pre-register and pre-pay. Sponsors for this year’s event include Kilimanjaro Premium Lager-42 KM, Tigo-21 KM Half Marathon, Grand Malt 5 KM Fun Run and water table sponsors and partners KK Security, Keys Hotel, Kilimanjaro Water, TPC Sugar, Simba Cement, AAR, Kibo Palace, Barclays Bank, Precision Air and CMC Automobiles.