OWNERS of Tanzanite mines in Simanjiro district, Manyara region, risk losing their ownerships unless they settle their outstanding licence fees within 30 days. Minerals Minister, Dotto Biteko gave the ultimatum here yesterday after his official tour of the region. The minister noted with concern that the government has been losing millions of shillings in licence fees due to mines’ owners accumulated unpaid fees. Mr Biteko instructed Minerals Principal Officer at Mirerani to take measures against owners of the mines who will defy the order of paying within the given period. “Time for asking them to pay is now up…the law is clear and what is required is that they pay as according to the law, not otherwise,” he stated. He pointed out that there were big and small companies as well as business people who delay paying licence fees while they know it was their responsibility. Adding more emphasis to the minister’s words, Chairman of the association of mines owners in Manyara, Mr Justin Nyari, directed the chairpersons of the associations at the grassroots level to ensure that they push their members to pay the licence fees within the given time. He said he will write letters to all chairpersons of the five branch offices of the association in the region to remind them to respect and implement the order. He also told the leaders of the association to educate their members on the importance of adhering to the laws and regulations governing the mineral sector. “It should be remembered that we promised to cooperate with the government by implementing various directives, including paying various fees,” he repeated to the association members. One of Tanzanite mines owners, Mr Isack Mollel, concurred with his chairman, calling on his fellow members to pay the fees to avoid revocation of their licenses. On Monday, this week, the minister instructed the mining commission to serve a 30-day notice to companies that own 18,341 mining licenses to pay the government over 100bn/- or risk losing their licenses. The minister said the owners of 18,341 owe the government 116.67bn/- that they should pay within the given period. Upon failure to pay the amount, the commission will have seven days to revoke all licenses involved. He explained that the commission has issued 30,973 mining licenses, with 18,341 of them having not paid a number of fees, which total 116.67bn/-. Giving the breakdown on the amount of money that the government claims from each licence category with the amount in brackets, the minister mentioned prospecting licence (61.67bn/-), special mining licence (6.41bn/-), mining licence (28.26bn/-) and primary mining licence (19.51bn/).