ATHLETICS Tanzania has picked 28 athletes who will form the national team for the IAAF World Cross Country Championship slated for March 30 in Denmark. The federation’s secretary general, Wilhelm Gidabuday revealed the names yesterday saying they were carefully picked by a panel of seven coaches, banking on their performance in Moshi where National Crosscountry championship climaxed over the weekend. The event was jointly supported by DStv and Ngorongoro Conservation Authority. According to Gidabuday, the athletes have grouped in four different categories according to their ages and distances of the races they are involved. Explaining more on the IAAF World cross-country, Gidabuday said there will be also relay races for both men and women’s disciplines. The list of athletes, according to Gidabuday includes Faraja Damas, Joseph Panga, Sylvester Marco, Yohane Elisante and Stephano Huche all from Arusha, while Deogratius Nade is from Manyara and Bazil Sule is from Police Tanzania. The women’s senior team comprises Failuna Abdi Matanga, Anjelina Daniel, Amina Mohamed, Marselina Issa and Neema Msuad from Arusha while Magdalena Shauri is from the National Service Unit (JKT). There are also seven athletes who have been picked for the national Under-18 team, according to Gidabuday. They are Michael Kishimba (Arusha), Daniel Sinda (Arusha) Emmanuel Joseph (Manyara) Francis Damiano (Mbulu), Saimon Francis (Arusha) and Nicodemo Joseph (Mbulu) while girls team is formed by Agnes Protas (Arusha), Anastazia Ndoromongo (Arusha), Aisha Luguna (Arusha) Sara Hiti (JKT), Gace Jackson (JKT) Noela Lemmy (Arusha) and Catherine Philipo (Manyara). The cross-country camp will be under the head coach Meta Petro from Rift Valley Athletics Club who will be assisted by Anthony Mwingereza from TPDF, Andrea Panga of JKT, Thomas Tlanka of Arusha and Juma Jambau from Singida. The camp’s matron, according to Gidabuday, will be the veteran athlete Marcelina Gwandu while University of Dar es Salaam’s lecturer, Hamad Ndee will be the camp’s coordinator. Gidabuday said the camp to be pitched at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium in Arusha will officially begin on February 20 this year and insisted all athletes to be there on time. Speaking after the selection, the Public Relations Officer of Multichoice DStv Tanzania Johnson Mshana said he hoped the athletes will perform well with moral and material support from his firm. “We want to see and hear the national anthem played at the world events such as Olympics when Tanzanian athletes win medals,” he added.