AS preparations for the Kabaddi World Cup finals in Malaysia heading for a climax, East African Community (EAC) countries have already known their opponent in the forthcoming event. The 2019 Kabbadi World Cup Competition is scheduled to be staged from April 2 to 15 this year in Melaka, Malaysia. The organisers World Kabbadi have unveiled draw over the weekend which include three members of the East African Community(EAC); Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda. Tanzania Kabaddi Sports Association (TKSA) chairman Abdallah Nyoni told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that 32 men’s have been pooled into eight groups of four teams each, while 17 women’s teams placed into four groups. According to Nyoni Tanzania men’s team is placed in Group D along with Chinese Taipei, New Zealand and Germany, while ladies will find their way over Sri Lanka, Iraq, Mauritius and Mexico in the Group W that have five teams unlike others that have four each. “It is not an easy groups, our teams have to work hard in preparations as to be able to get good results,” he said. Nyoni, however, said the top ranked Chinese Taipei, who are among the best teams in the world pose a big threat to our envoys in men’s category. “Women’s team is placed into even tough fixture as it looks underdog due to the fact that all its opponents are ahead of us in rankings, we understand how good our opponents are,” he said. But, he added that since they already know their opponents the focus should be at intensive training to keep players fit for the tough opponent. Kenya men’s team is placed in Group B and will battle it out against Sri Lanka, Canada and Lebanon, while underdog ladies have a big hurdle against Pakistan, England and Hong Kong in the Group Y. Uganda in other hand, will field only a man’s team and are placed in Group C against Pakistan, England and Colombia. Other men’s groups are Group A that comprises Argentina, Hong Kong, Scotland, Egypt; group E has Malaysia, Afghanistan, Denmark, Nigeria; group F has brought together Mauritius, Iraq, Norway, Philippines; G contains Poland, USA, Italy, Zimbabwe and Group H has India, Australia, Peru and Austria. Other women’s groups are Group X whose members are India, Argentina, Bulgaria, Australia and Group Z that has hosts Malaysia, Chinese Taipei, Egypt and New Zealand.