SIMBA SC playmaker, Clatous Chama is delighted to score two goals in a 3-1 win over Lipuli FC in a closely contested Mainland Premier League encounter on Tuesday, saying they now focus on next match. The Zambian midfielder said scoring a brace has enabled him to get back on the track as far as his form is concerned. Chama netted twice in the first half of the game to give his side a deserved 2-1 lead before halftime of the tense clash at Samora Stadium in Iringa, while on fire hit man Meddie Kagere sealed the deal when he powered his 12th goal of the season in the second half. Striker Paul Nonga scored the only goal for Lipuli in the opening 45 minutes. His positive performance came amid speculations from sport fans in the country that he was running out of gas after playing below par in the past league matches for his club. The tangible results have seen the Msimbazi Street giants reaching 48 points, only two points behind second placed Azam FC, who have 50 points but the former have six matches in hand to equal the number of encounters played by leaders Young Africans on 61 points and Azam. Also, the gained three points from the difficult venue broke the chains of winless run by Simba whose, best results for them in the past league games had been a draw. It was Simba’s sixth back to back win since demolishing Egypt’s Al Ahly 1-0 in the CAF Champions League group D clash last month at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The next stop for Simba now is Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga, where they head to confront tenth placed Stand United on Saturday. Stand United smashed Lipuli 3-2 in their previous match and were a household name after inflicting the first league defeat to Yanga this season. Speaking after the match against Lipuli, Chama said people should understand that a player cannot be in great form in all matches. “As players, we are dynamic meaning that every match is different from the other. Sometimes you play well, while other times you fail to shine,” the Zambian international said. On his part, Lipuli Head Coach Selemani Matola conceded that they lost to a better team. “We played very well but at the moment, nobody can deny the fact that Simba is a complete team with great players, who have access to modern facilities that a perfect team is entitled to have,” Matola said. He added that going into the break losing 2-1, he had confidence to reverse the scoreline in the last half but that was highly affected when his defence allowed the third goal, which he said it killed off the battle. “Both the red card and third goal completely buried our hopes to salvage a better result at our turf thereby giving them (Simba) a chance to dominate us,” the coach said. Furthermore, Matola narrated that the defeat will give them an opportunity to do well in other approaching league fixtures. Asked to comment on the decision of the referee, which made his side to finish the match with ten men after the red card was flashed to Paul Ngalema, Matola said he was not in the best position to comment on the scenario insisting that the referees should always be fair all the time. Meanwhile, the hosts Mbeya City beat Singida United 1-0 in the Mainland Premier League match at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya yesterday. The solitary goal was netted by Iddi Suleiman.