TANZANIA Bureau of Standards (TBS) has resolved to provide technical support and capacity building programmes to members with disabilities. The technical support will be provided to entrepreneurs who want to secure TBS certifications of their products. TBS acting Director for Quality Management Lazaro Msasalaga told the ‘Daily News’ here on Monday that members with disabilities particularly those with deafness can equa lly participate in productive activities when supported. “Members with the deafness are important like any other and we have committed ourselves to support them by visiting their entrepreneurial activities, provide them capacity building programmes and get their products certified at the end of the day,” he said. He said TBS has decided to start engaging them actively in different seminars and workshops organised for other entrepreneur groups so that they can gain from vast experiences and broaden their horizons in business undertakings. Mr Msasalaga was speaking shortly after the opening of the seminar that brought together small and medium-scale entrepreneur groups from Mwanza Region who are engaged in manufacturing, processing and packaging of different products. According to Mr Msasalaga, keen followup on members with disabilities might boost their morale and qua lify them as productive members in the society and eventually graduate as large businesses in the future if supported to acquire loans from financial institutions. Gones George and Hidaya Masoud both members with deafness thanked TBS for inviting them to participate in the seminars together with their colleagues without disability. However, they appealed to the government machineries to support them as they struggle to sustain their small businesses with poor startup capital and other infrastructures. Ms Hidaya, who is a leader in a group with about 25 members, said they are engaged in processing of groundnut butter established after securing 300,000/- from the Village Cooperative Bank (VICOBA). “We managed to make some 60,000/- last year out of the business but we think we are operating at a loss. We ask for the government to link us to reliable markets,” she appealed. On his part, Mr George, also serving as Chairman of Mwanza Deaf Association cried of a regular ridicules and stigma from other members in the business and even consumers who treat them as unproductive. He said people tend to wrongly think that those with hearing disability could not also produce anything meaningful. “We are vowing to prove them wrong,” Mr George said. Opening the seminar on behalf of the Mwanza Regional Commissioner John Mongela, the Ilemela District Commissioner Dr Severin Lalika said small and medium-scale entrepreneurs had the obligation of pushing the industrialisation agenda. He challenged them to abide by best practices governing business undertakings including making sure that their products are certified by TBS to win both local and foreign markets.