TANZANIA and France have promised to strengthen development cooperation and increase ties in business and investments. The cooperation also seeks solutions to conflicts facing the Great Lakes Region, the Indian Ocean Zone and other security challenges in those areas. This was said yesterday by foreign ministers of the two countries in Paris as they met for negotiations. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister, Dr Augustine Mahiga is in France for a two day visit following an invitation from France’s Minister of Europe and Foreign Affairs, Mr Jean-Yves Le Drian, who has also promised to visit the country in the near future. Prior to the negotiations, Mr Mahiga held talks with a group of French Senators led by Senator Ronan Dantec who is the Chairman. The Senators suggested the establishment of a joint venture between Paris and Dodoma, saying that the co-operation should be more effective in land use, urban planning and implementation of various projects to address the challenges of climate change. Similarly, the Senators also expressed their desire to cooperate with the Tanzanian government to raise football talent in various schools in the country. During his visit, the minister was also able to hold talks with President Emanuel Macron’s Advisor dealing with African affairs, Ms Marie Audouard. In their conversation, Ms Audouard identified the priority areas of President Macron in his relations with African countries, including enhancing relations with English and Portuguese speaking countries and encourage France private sector to invest in Africa and exchanging cultural and traditional experiences especially for youth. The minister also held talks with Director-General of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), Ms Audrey Azoulay and the Deputy Director General of the French Development Agency (AFD), Mr Bertrand Walckenaer. Mr Walckenaer explained that due to the good cooperation between the two countries, they have doubled financial support for the country’s development that will be used to fund projects in the sectors of transport, energy, clean water and waste, agriculture, health and climate change. The Minister ended his visit yesterday by meeting with French entrepreneurs and investors from ‘Mouvement des Entreprises de France’ (MEDEF).