THE government has embarked on strengthening immunisation services, including cold chain monitoring and electronic data collection to attain 100 per cent vaccination coverage by next year. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu (pictured) said yesterday that statistics indicated that in 2017 Tanzania had attained 98 per cent immunisation, thus placing the country in the third position in the world in national immunisation coverage. Ms Mwalimu was receiving 1,385 refrigerators for storing vaccines and 1,249 tablets for collecting immunisation data electronically - all worth 15.6bn/- from the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (Unicef). The refrigerators and tablets were successfully bought by the Ministry of Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children and Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisations (GAVI). She said the refrigerators alone had cost 13.9bn/- of which the government had contributed 20 per cent of the funds. Ms Mwalimu said the refrigerators would be distributed to dispensaries and health centres to improve the storage of vaccines in dispensaries and health centres. Ms Mwalimu noted that of 1,385 refrigerators, 1,190 were solar powered refrigerators, while 195 used electricity. “We have just received part of the refrigerators and tablets today … we expect to receive between 800 and 1,000 refrigerators and 3,000 tablets at the end of this year to attain 80 per cent of country demand in all health centres in the country,” she noted. She explained that the refrigerators would be distributed to all new health centres earmarked for the provision of immunisation services by the ministry in collaboration with President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government). She said other health facilities, which would benefit from the refrigerators, were those with old refrigerators. “All councils in Mainland Tanzania and all districts in Zanzibar will receive the refrigerators in two phases. The first phase will include Dodoma, Geita, Kagera, Kigoma, Lindi, Tanga, Mara, Mbeya, Mtwara, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Songwe, Unguja, Coast Region and Singida, while the second phase will cover all remaining regions,” Ms Mwalimu said. She, however, said the Ministry of Health through the national immunisation programme had started collecting immunisation data electronically, adding that at health facilities the tablets would be used for collecting information through the Tanzania Electronic Immunisation Registry. Meanwhile, Ms Mwalimu has called upon parents and guardians to utilise the immunisation services by taking their children to nearby health facilities. She also reminded girls, who received Human Papiloma Virus (HPV) vaccine against cervix cancer to go for the second dose for it to be effectual. Ms Mwalimu noted that about 60 per cent of girls were reached last year, but most of them didn’t return for the second dose, a situation that affected its effectiveness. She detailed that statistics indicated that cervical cancer among women was the leading killer followed by breast cancer, but it could be prevented through vaccination. Immunisation and Vaccines Development Programme (IVDP) Manager in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Dafrossa Lyimo, said one of the reasons, which might have contributed to a low turn-up for the second dose, was due to the fact that most of the girls, who received the vaccine, were in Standard Seven so they were supposed to go for another dose after six months. “Parents are responsible to encourage their children to go for the second dose to nearby health facilities… we have embarked on sensitising parents to encourage their children to receive the doses.” Launching the HPV vaccine in April last year, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan noted that the government was committed to ensuring the vaccination target of 616,734 girls was reached and urged parents and guardians not to miss out on