CAPITAL Market and Securities Authority (CMSA) set to introduce insurancelinked securities (ILS) to enable insurers obtain reinsurance protection locally. The ILS establishment idea came following the introduction of Mining - Local Content Regulations 2018 which directs all extraction companies to insure operations with local insurance companies. CMSA Chief Operation Officer Nicodemus Mkama said bringing together insurance and capital markets need the establishment of ILS that will enable local insurance companies to obtain protection from a new pool of capital separate from foreign reinsurance. “Through ILS, the country’s insurance companies will be able to raise adequa te capital to cover the risks involved in large scale projects,” Mr Mkama said over the weekend. The CEO was speaking at a stakeholders meeting between insurance sector and capital markets industries held in Dar es Salaam recently. The players met to discuss adequa te capitalisation of the insurance sector in Tanzania to specifically be able to take advantage of the new regulations. Orbit Security weekly synopsis report said if successful this will be a revolutionary milestone to Tanzania’s financial sector. The brokerage firm said, it will bring not only growth of capital markets as insurance sector produces vital institutional investors, but also the growth of the insurance sector in terms of expertise and premiums. “…A nd [it will bring] improvement of the balance of payment when all the dollars paid to foreign reinsurers remain within the borders,” Orbit report lined up some of the benefits. Mr Mkama said despite of the fact that the insurance sector was growing substantially still there is a great need for cooperation between the two to boost the country’s economic development agenda. “Still there is a huge room for growth even further if capital markets and insurance sector pool resources jointly to underwrite risks that are currently re-insured by foreign companies,” Mr Mkama said. The Orbit Securities CEO, Mr Gerase Kamugisha, said that the country was still faced by various insurance challenges which could be transformed into business opportunity. “It is a right time for local insurers to embark on the government’s directive of using local content by finding financial capacity of being able to cover large project in the high growing extractive industry,” Mr Kamugisha said. The insurance stakeholders also were contemplating best ways of cooperation with capital markets to benefit from a portion of funds lost to foreign insurance companies through reinsurance in the extractive sector.