PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday challenged the local media to embrace patriotism and report positive issues for the country’s interest. He said reporting exclusively the negatives will only fuel hate among citizens and damage the image of the country. Dr Magufuli who doubles as the national chairman of the ruling party, CCM, made the call during his impromptu visit to the Africa Media Group (AMG) Limited that provides broadcasting services through Chanel Ten and Magic FM. AMG is among CCM properties and Dr Magufuli’s visit came as part of the party’s commemorations of 42 years since its establishment in February 5, 1977. According to the president, the local media apart from educating, entertaining and informing the public, should play the central role of unifying members of the public. “I urge you and all other media to report positive issues for the interest of the country…you don’t have to emulate what foreign media outlets are doing…they always report about civil wars and killings,” he told the AMG staff. He pledged 200m/- for the media group’s procurement of six modern cameras and other equipment to facilitate smooth operations of the media and compete in the market. The decision that was highly applauded by AMG workers was made in response to a concern that was made by one of the employees that they were in need of modern equipment, including cameras. “Tomorrow, (today) I will release 100m/- for procurement of six cameras worth 15m/- each and later on I will find another 100m/- for you, but ensure that the money is spent on the purpose,” he said. The new cameras will enable Channel 10 to expand their outreach and improve business through broadcasting services to all parts of the country and even outside Tanzania. “You can go for live broadcasts as much as you can, this is exactly how I would like to see AMG in the near future, but all in all, you are doing a great job, I always watch and listen to some of the programmes aired by Channel ten and Magic FM,” he noted. During his interaction, the president challenged the CCM broadcaster to add more educative programmes especially on agriculture sector, which absorbs over 75 per cent of the Tanzania population. He also instructed AMG management and all employees to find another good CCM-owned building to acquire the office space and relocate from their current structure. Earlier, among others, AMG employees asked the party national chairman to work on their entitlements, including salary increment and health insurance. Responding, Dr Magufuli said there are some issues that will be solved at the managerial level and others will be discussed at the party meetings. “We shall seat together with the Secretary General (Dr Bashiru Ally) and others in the party to discuss how to improve AMG but some of the issues will be handled by the management that is under Mr Jaffar Haniu,” he explained. Other CCM owned media outlets are Uhuru and Mzalendo Newspapers as well as Uhuru FM.