ONE of the leading companies in network and endpoint security, Sophos, recently announced that the next-gen Sophos XG Firewall is now available through Sophos Central. With the announcement comes the firm’s complete portfolio of cybersecurity solutions into a single, cloud-based management platform. This means that Sophos partners and customers are now able to manage their next-gen endpoint and network protection from a single pane of glass. According to a report released recently, in addition to the efficiency of managing multiple products through a single, cloud management platform, threat detection and response times are improved by the Security Heartbeat in Sophos’ Synchronised Security technology. This advanced approach, according to the report, shares security incident alerts directly between Sophos network and endpoint protection products, which means that the XG Firewall will automatically communicate with Sophos’ endpoint products to proactively protect against threats, interrupt the attack chain by isolating machines, and take steps to remediate the attack. Sophos Central effectively creates a system of security that can leverage the artificial intelligence in Intercept X with EDR to respond faster and more effectively than individual products alone. “IT organisations do not have the resources to respond to the volume of constant and constantly shifting cyberattacks. Sophisticated threats require intelligent security solutions that are predictive, multi-layered, and can work together as a system. With Sophos Central, partners and their customers have access to all Sophos next-generation security technologies and can benefit from the advances in Synchronised Security from one single location,” said Dan Schiappa, the Senior Vice President and General Manager, Products, Sophos. He added that the threat landscape has evolved and now their approach to protecting the IT infrastructure that supports businesses must evolve, saying that every IT organisation, large or small, needs security that is innovative, integrated and scalable, adding that Sophos Central provides all of this, plus vital visibility into what’s happening and where. First launched in 2015, Sophos Central now processes more than 8 million transactions a minute for more than 82,000 customers worldwide. In addition to XG Firewall and artificial intelligence-driven endpoint security, partners and customers can manage web, email, wireless, server, and mobile device protection through Sophos Central. A dedicated partner dashboard simplifies business management for Sophos partners and enables streamlined multi-customer management for MSPs. “By completing its vision to unify XG Firewall and Intercept X endpoint protection in Sophos Central, Sophos is putting us ahead of our competition. The platform is now even more powerful because of the added benefits of synchronised security in an easy-to-manage cloud-based platform that seamlessly integrates with the entire Sophos security products portfolio,” said Ryan Lipschitz, Vice President of Engineering, Virtual Graffiti, Inc., a Sophos partner based in Irvine, Calif. “We are also excited about the lateral movement protection added to XG Firewall. We see a lot of cybercriminals trying to harvest credentials, which would allow them to move undetected through a network to steal and exfiltrate high-value data. With XG Firewall on Sophos Central, Sophos has made game-changing advancements no one else offers.” Recent threats like SamSam, demonstrate the ways cybercriminals are constantly changing their tactics to stay effective and profitable. The next-gen advancements of XG Firewall and Intercept X, combined with the intelligence of Synchronised Security and easy management of all products within Sophos Central, are essential for maintaining protection and responding quickly to any attack.