YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said time has come for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) to create conducive league fixtures. Yanga laboured to claim a point against Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga on Sunday, the outcome that saw them reaching 54 points from 21 games of the season. Hosts Coastal Union scored the opener in the 29th minute of the first half, the goal which sustained until in the 76th minute when Yanga equalised through Matheo Antony who replaced injured Amis Tambwe. It was a tense match for both teams especially Yanga who needed maximum three points to continue flying high at the top of the Mainland Premier League and stand a chance to retain the prestigious title this season. Speaking after the game, Zahera said the available timetable is not friendly to his side. “Tomorrow (Yesterday) we will be travelling to Singida for another match against Singida United and after that, we will return here (Mkwakwani Stadium) for another game. This is not healthy in football,” Zahera said. Commenting on the pitch, he said it is of good quality as such he can not say negatively about it. “We have won at least six league matches outside Dar es Salaam from pitches of this nature as such, I will be wrong to say we have failed to grab three points due to the poor state of the ground,” he said. He added: “Back in Dar es Salaam, we train at a bad ground as comparing with here (Mkwakwani Stadium). It is only that we have failed to use well the chances we made hence we must forget it here and focus on the next league tie.” On his part, Coastal Union Coach Jama Mgunda blamed the referee of the game saying he accepted the Yanga goal which was scored from offside position. “Sometimes I wonder the decisions made by referees. They show favouritism a lot as if they have never been trained on how to do their jobs. But that is over, we are convinced with the draw, we need to look up for other games,” Mgunda said. Clarifying on the red card awarded to his striker Isaa Abushehe who recklessly challenged Yanga defender Gadiel Micheal in the 73rd minute, Mgunda said it was a clear red card but insisted that the referee was the cause. “He (Abusheshe) was tackled first but the referee could not blow the whistle until he revenged the attack on Micheal. I hope everyone saw what happened since football is played openly,” he said. In the same vein, the team’s player and Bongo Flavour megastar Ali Kiba hailed his colleagues for their spirited fight which enabled them to salvage a point. “It was very tough for both teams. Yanga is a good side with experienced players and coach but we managed to give them a difficult game,” said Kiba who watched the action from the bench. He further said his presence at the team is merely to motivate the players as such it is not a must for him to play in every game.