THE government has nationalised the 118bn/- assets of the ailing Tanzania Fishing Corporation (TAFICO) as part of the process to revive the organisation. The government is also reviewing all existing assets of TAFICO, which was established in 1974 to manage fishing activities in the country, before transforming the corporation into a more effective body to perform its activities. Responding to Members of Parliaments (MPs) on the implementation of the task of the Agriculture, Livestock and Water committee, Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Luhaga Mpina (pictured) said the government was on the last stages of TAFICO revival. Mr Mpina said the government of Japan has already disbursed 4.3bn/- to revive the infrastructure of the ailing corporation including refrigerators to preserve fish and fishing fleet to mention a few. He further said plans were underway to procure two large ships that will be used in the deep sea to meet the request by many MPs who for years have been calling on the government to invest on the corridor. “I want to assure you that the government will now get involved in fishing in the deep sea as many MPs have been requesting for years,” he noted. On the construction of the fishing harbour, the minister said the specialist was still doing a feasibility study and that after completing it, construction will start. Mr Mpina pointed out that apart from reviving TAFICO, the government will also revive and construct new livestock processing industries in the country. “Currently, large animal processing industry is constructed at Ruvu area that will contain abattoir, meat processor and leather products,” he said, adding that the government will also begin construction of an international veterinary auction in Ruvu. Mr Mpina said he has already talked with his Egyptian counterpart and agreed that the construction will start next month. He said other industries to process livestock products clustered in Longido and Tan Choice Kibaha, capable of slaughtering over 1,000 cattle and 4,000 goats were in the final stage of construction.