THE Bank of Tanzania (BoT) in Collaboration with the International Finance Corporation (ICF) yesterday launched a credit reporting awareness and financial literacy Campaign that aims to raise consumer’s awareness on credit reporting in Tanzania. Going by the theme ‘Know Your Credit History– Improve Your Life’ the campaign is also expected to contribute to reduction of borrowing costs, non-performing loans and enhance financial stability. Inaugurating the campaign on behalf of minister of Finance and Planning Dr Phillip Mpango, the BoT Governor, Prof Florens Luoga said the programme is part of a broader drive to promote financial literacy and increase financial inclusion in Tanzania from 65 per cent in 2018 to 75 per cent of the population in 2022 in terms of usage of financial services. “The system aims to reduce information asymmetry between a lender and a borrower and enable the lender to apply an appropriate risk price. The BoT boss added that the central bank launched the credit reference system in September 2012 following issuance of two pieces of regulations made under the Bank of Tanzania Act 2006 namely the Credit Reference Databank Regulations 2012 and the Credit Reference Bureau Regulations 2012. Currently there are two licensed credit reference bureaus operating in Tanzania, which include Dun & Bradstreet Credit Bureau Tanzania Limited and CreditInfo Tanzania Limited that obtain credit information from the credit reference databank system which is maintained the central bank and alternative data from other entities “The system has had positive impact to the country as Tanzania’s ranking in the World Bank’s ease of “Getting Credit Indicator” improved to 44 out of 190 economies in 2017 from 151 out of 189 economies in 2015,” he said. In respect of the same indicator, the BoT Governor said currently, Tanzania economy is ranked 60 out of 190 economies in respect of this indicator adding that the ‘Getting Credit Indicator’ has been the best performing for three consecutive years from 2017 to 2019 for our economy out of 10 assessed indicators. According to Prof Luoga, the campaign will highlight the basics of credit reporting, including what a credit report is, why it matters to borrowers and lenders, how consumers can access their credit reports, the need to have good credit histories and importance of regularly checking their credit reports with credit bureaus to improve their credit reports. “Further, sharing of credit information contributes towards inculcating financial discipline and avoiding imprudent and excessive borrowing,” he emphasized. Present at the event the ICF Country manager Mr Manuel Moses said the campaign will benefit both creditors and consumers by facilitating the service delivery. He said number of stakeholders is set to benefit and be capable of utilizing the system that is expected to modernize financial services in Tanzania. “We are here to support this initiative because it has greater impact for the financial sector,” he said. For their part, the licensed credit reference bureaus operating in the country Dun & Bradstreet Credit Bureau Tanzania Limited and CreditInfo Tanzania Limited asked Tanzanians to get their credit statuses to reduce inconvenienced that they might face whenever their need loans.