The city officials and militias are sometimes extorting bribes from innocent people whom they accuse of littering. A week-long investigation by the ‘Daily News’ has unveiled a syndicate of rogue city officials and militias who extort bribes from city dwellers, particularly in the central business district, for petty trashes like used bus tickets, sealing of bottled water, plastic covers of sweets and cigarette butts, among others. Following complaints from city residents, a journalist from ‘Daily News’ went undercover and came across a harrowing tale of harassment and extortions by the crooked officials. From Gerezani area in Kariakoo to Mnazi Mmoja and Posta as well as other areas in the central business district, plain clothed city militias have been deployed but instead of looking out for serious litters, they have decided to prey on trivial trashes by passers-by. “It is apparent that the authorities are bent on making money from us rather than creating public awareness to make the city clean. “Why on earth should one be arrested for littering petty trash in an area where there is no dustbin at all,” a city resident who identified himself as Juma Uledi from Mbagala area complained. Mr Uledi was arrested at Mnazi Mmoja by militias. His grave offence was throwing the piece of plastic cover he had unwrapped from a candy. From Mnazi Mmoja, he was taken to ‘Manispaa Depot’ which is adjacent to Mkuki House shopping mall, opposite the former Nakumatt Supermarket at Kamata area where he was held for several hours. Existing by-laws stipulate that anybody found of dumping trash in Dar es Salaam should be subjected to the 50,000/- fine where the payee has to be issued with an electronic receipt. But, investigation has shown that the collected money end up in the pockets of the rogue officials. “The by-laws are very punitive in the city centre; it would have been wiser to first put in place the required infrastructure like dustbins before subjecting people to fines,” Mr Uledi complained. The undercover journalist witnessed the officials directing the arrested people who could not raise the required fine of 50,000/- to contribute little money among them or call their relatives to send money through mobile phones. “If you don’t have 50,000/- then every two of you should raise at least 25,000/- each and you will be issued with one receipt,” the leader of the militia was overheard telling some of those arrested. Those failing to pay the fine or pay the bribe are taken to Msimbazi Police Station where they are held overnight awaiting arraignment the next day. Even at the police station, one can buy his/her freedom upon bribing the police. The amount varies but one can be freed by paying at least 30,000/-, which of course, is not documented and possibly end up in the cops’ pockets. But, if you manage to call people who are close to you to send money you will be discharged before being taken into custody. This happened to one young lady who was released when her relatives sent money when the vehicle carrying the suspected litters had arrived at the compound of Msimbazi Police Station. One of the militias, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confided that the local militias deployed by the city authorities are forced to prey on unsuspecting passers-by to make ends meet since they are not paid salaries. This was confirmed by the Executive Director of Ilala Municipality, Mr Jumanne Shauri. “The militias are not employed by the municipality, they receive 50 per cent of what they manage to collect from the people they arrest.” Mr Shauri on the other hand vowed to take appropriate legal actions against any official or militia found to be engaged in soliciting bribes. “If you have enough evidence bring it to my office so that we can take actions against the errant officials,” the director told this paper in a telephone interview. Reached for comments, the Mayor of Dar es Salaam, Mr Isaya Mwita, and Dar es Salaam City Council’s Director, Siporah Liana, distanced their offices from the exercise, maintaining that respective municipalities in the city were responsible for the arrests. The mayor explained further that the city council is only responsible for garbage dumps while the municipalities are charged with erecting dustbins and arresting offenders found to be dumping rubbish in their areas of jurisdiction. And, speaking in a telephone interview, Ms Siporah stated; “It is better you talk to officials in the respective councils within the city; they are the ones who have enough information on such operations”. Surprisingly, the Deputy Mayor for Ilala, Mr Omary Kumbilamoto, distanced the municipality from the exercise, stressing that the Dar es Salaam city council was the responsible authority. The Public Relations Officer (PRO) at Ilala, Ms Taibu Shaibu, admitted that the municipality faces a shortage of trash bins, leading to littering in many parts of the city centre. The PRO warned on the other hand that the municipality will take appropriate actions against officials implicated in extorting bribes during enforcement of the exercise to arrest people found dumping trash. “All what we want is evidence from people who have been asked to pay bribes so that we can punish officials who have been implicated,” Ms Shaibu told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview. Dar es Salaam is among five fast growing cities in Africa with reports from various global institutions indicating that population in the metropolis, best known as the ‘Haven of Peace’ is likely to hit ten million people by 2030 from the current five million people. A report by the African Development Bank (AfDB) in 2014 dubbed; “Tracking Africa’s Progress report,” put Dar es Salaam on the top followed by Nairobi (Kenya), Kinshasa (DRC), Luanda (Angola) and Addis Ababa (Ethiopia). However, the Chief Economist at AfDB, Mr Trevor Ncube, warned that if the growth is not matched by investments in upgrading infrastructure it could pose serious challenges for urban planners.