YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera has said his charges were not under any pressure, with only hours left before the eagerly awaited battle against Simba. Simba and Yanga clash at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow and the temperature is steadily swallowing up both sets’ camp. The giants clash after both had tricky fixtures last weekend and on Tuesday, their focus has now switched on the eagerly awaited derby. Simba will enter the match at the backdrop of a sweet 1-0 victory over Egyptian giants Al Ahly in CAF Champions League at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday. While Yanga will be buoyed with a hard fought 1-0 win over JKT Tanzania in the Mainland Premier League match at the Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga last Sunday. Both sides have intensified preparations for the Saturday’s battle and league leaders Yanga have opted to pitch camp outside Dar es Salaam— driving all the way to Morogoro, seeking calm environment to meditate on the game. Simba on the other hand, have chosen to set their base in Dar es Salaam, shunning their usual base in Unguja, where they usually set camp going into the derby clash. And, this time both sides appears to be under intense pressure from their supporters, especially after sharing the spoil following a barren draw in the first round. However, going into the match, the outspoken Congolese tactician Zahera said Yanga are not under pressure compared to their opponents, who want to close gap against t h e m i n their bid to defend the league title. “We are not under any pressure ahead of the derby we certainly know that Simba will come into the match with a lot to prove as they seek to defend the title,” he said. Zahera said Yanga are currently at the top of the league standings with 58 points from 23 games and any results will not disturb their lead compared to their rivals, who are settled in the fourth spot on the log with 36 points from 15 outings. He further said that they know, Simba will be charged up with their CAF Champion League results against Egyptian giants Al Ahly, saying that does not trouble him because Dar derby is always a different match with completely different approaches. “It’s now about three days since we kicked off preparations for the match and my players are all doing well except for Thabani Kamusoko, who has picked injury,” Zahera said. According to reports, Yanga squad was expected to return to Dar es Salaam yesterday evening or today, ahead of tomorrow’s clash. The derby match will be officiated by referee Hans Mabena from Tanga, who will be assisted by Mohammed Mkono and Kassim Mpanga respectively, whereby Elly Sasii will be the fourth official. The match entrance fee is pegged at 7,000/-which is lowest and 30,000/- the highest for VIP A, followed by 20,000/- for VIP B and C respectively. In another development, the government has denied a request by both Simba and Yanga to change kick off time of the match, insisting that the kickoff time will be 16 pm. Director of Sports Development in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Yusuf Singo said yesterday in Dar es Salaam that they received a request submitted by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) to push forward kick off time for an hour. Meanwhile, Azam FC squandered their chance to close points gap with the leaders Yanga, following a 1-0 defeat from Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya yesterday. The lone goal which saw Tanzania Prisons crawling out of the relegation zone was netted by Jumanne Elifadhili through a spot kick in the 36th minute of the game. Prisons are now on 29 points from 26 games and are placed 14th in the league table, while Azam remained second on 49 points from 23 matches.