YOUNG Africans head coach Mwinyi Z ahera has said his players are well-drilled and organised to ensure they win their match against die-hards Mbao FC at CCM Kirumba Stadium tomorrow. Speaking during their arrival at Mwanza airport yesterday, Z ahera said a contingent of 20 players and officials arrived safely ready for W ednesday match against hard-fighting Mbao FC. Commenting more about their preparations, Z ahera said so far his team has no any injury and all his players are fit for the match. The former DC Motema Pembe and AFC Tubize coach, Z ahera said his team will train today morning and then wait for the match. He called upon Y oung Africans fans to make sure they flock to the stadium in order to give their players a moral support to enable them grab vital points tomorrow and other remaining matches of the Premier League. He said his team is still commanding the league run despite losing 1-0 to their traditional rivals Simba on Saturday. W ith 5 8 points on kit, Yanga are still leading the Mainland Premier League table after 24 outings. T h e y have won eighteen, d r a w n four and lost two matches against Simba and Stand United both by 1-0. For his part, the Mbao FC head coach, Ally Bushiri said his team is well prepared not to let three points slip between their fingers, hence they will fight tooth and nail to ensure they stamp their tenth victory of the season. Bushiri said the current squad has no injured players and confirmed the return of his key players such as Elias Zamfuko, Evarigestus Bernard, Andrea Mengi and Haji Chikoko. The former Mwadui and Njombe Mji coach, Bushiri said his team’s players squandered many scoring chances in their match against Coastal Union and lost 1-0. He promised to rectify most of the mistakes his players committed as well as sharpening the forward line to make it score more goals. The fourth placed team in this year’s SportPesa Super Cup, Mbao FC have won one and lost three matches in the last four outings. Mbao FC, who are sponsored by GF Trucks are now placed sixth with 36 points.