SCIENTISTS have established a remedy to deadly invasive weeds that are causing havoc in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. Senior Ecologist with Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) Novatus Magoma revealed here over the weekend that early trials that involved the use of Greenleaf desmodium plants have proved to be effective in eliminating the deadly Gutenbergia cordifolia weeds that have been sprouting in the conservation area negatively affecting wildlife and other plant species. “The sap from crushed Desmodium Intortum, when turned into liquid can be sprayed onto the invasive weeds, destroying them instantly… the treatment is biologically and environmentally safe,” stated Mr Magoma. “Once put in practice, the Desmodium spraying can eliminate over 80 per cent of the deadly invasive weeds that so far come in three varieties,” he elaborated. According to the ecologist, ever since the deadly Gutenbergia cordifolia, locally known as Makutiani, Tagates Minuta and Bidens Chimper, weeds started spreading in the World Heritage Site, there have been various efforts to clear them, including physical uproot and burning. “However, we realised that the weeds had hard shelled seeds that used to burst open due to heat from the fire and this fuelled their germination further, so we stopped the burning,” said the ecologist. Recruitment of local Maasai residents to dig out the weeds also proved to be slow, cumbersome and frequently resulted into complaints, therefore they had to hatch a more scientific campaign. NCAA is executing the campaign in collaboration with Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology, Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI) and Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA). NCAA Head of Public Relations and Communications Unit Joyce Mgaya described the invasion of Gutenbergia cordifolia as a serious threat that suppressed the growth of plants, which are mostly preferred by herbivores in the sanctuary and outside the conserved areas. She revealed that almost 40 per cent of Ngorongoro Crater has been infested by the invasive species, heightening the worries of wildlife experts because the Makutiani weeds, for instance, look the same as grass that herbivores like to eat, but being hard and tough, they hurt the animals’ mouths and teeth. NCAA Chief Conservator Dr Freddy Manongi said the authority is currently waiting for the report from recently conducted researches on the invasive weeds, which may also propose the formulation of national policy to deal with the problem.