AIR Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL), yesterday announced new routes to Southern African countries which are set to commence this month. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Engineer Ladislaus Matindi revealed this in Dar es Salaam during the launch of ATCL website and the opening of a ticket office at the company’s headquarters, a move geared towards moving the services closer to potential customers. He said the new routes to Zambia (Lusaka) and Zimbabwe (Harare) will commence on February 22 this year. Eng Matindi also affirmed that the Far-East routes, mostly to Chin phone companies, wherein all payments will be done through one’s mobile phone,” he said. He further revealed that being re-registered into IATA, encouraged the company to resume the UK routes, aiming at among other things, to attract tourists from Europe and the USA who normally take their flights to Tanzania from the UK, stressing that: “Resuming the UK markets is part of ATCL’s five year strategic plan (2018- 2022).” Responding to the public concern that ATCL is expensive, the CEO said that normally people complain without conducting even a simple research. He wanted to know which other air service company can be compared with ATCL, insisting that his company was cheap compared to others because its charges for economy class is 150,000/- while for business class was not more than 450,000/-. He called upon the public to conduct a simple survey to establish whether there was another airline company whose charges were cheaper than those offered by ATCL. ATCL Board Chairman, Engineer Emmanuel Korosso urged the air ticket agents to market the national carrier. a and India were also expected to take-off at the end of next month, after the re-registration of Tanzania into the International Air Transport Association (IATA). “We are now connected with all air service agents worldwide, and we have levelled the business through the website that we are launching today. All customers will have access to our services online. We have already involved tele