THE government of Egypt has offered scholarship to 50 Tanzanians to go and study courses related to electricity and renewable energy in Egypt. This was revealed by Egyptian Minister for Electricity and Renewable Energy Mohamed Shaker in Coast Region yesterday during the laying of the foundation stone for Rufiji Hydropower Project, which is being implemented jointly by Tanesco and Arab Contractors Company from Egypt. Mr Shaker pointed out that earlier his ministry had committed to offering only 20 scholarships, but changed their decision and would be extending to 50 scholarships. “The Egyptian Ministry of Electricity currently possesses a remarkable experience in electricity and renewable energy. Such experience includes policies and legalisation to attract private sector and foreign direct investments.
“The rest are tariff restructuring, the promotion of renewable, energy efficiency and transmission and distribution networks. Egypt is also well vested in training and studies for smart technological power plants,” he said. He reaffirmed their commitment to standing hand-in-hand with the Ministry of Energy in Tanzania to achieve this noble project, exchange experience and transfer technology and boost manufacturing. The minister observed that the project was a milestone for the relationship between Egypt and Tanzania and would further encourage the implementation of other projects between the two countries in electricity and renewable energy. He explained that the Rufiji Hydropower project was receiving the full support of President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, who had directed them to make a close follow-up in the implementation of the project and provide all support needed to implementing companies. He further noted that last month a high level delegation from the Ministry of Energy and Tanesco visited his office in Egypt to follow up the progress of the project. According to him, the project will allow the country to produce affordable and reliable electricity, which will contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs). The project is going to significantly contribute to the renewable energy initiative in Africa and overcome the country’s deficits and increase generation capacity, create jobs and a lot of business opportunities and support the development of not only Tanzania, but also the entire region. Tanesco Managing Director, Dr Titus Mwinuka, said the cost of implementing the project was 6.5tri/- whereby 15 per cent (equivalent to over 1tri/-) had already been paid to the contractor by the government. Dr Mwinuka noted that the company had hired a consulting engineer identified as Teku and formed a local team responsible for the supervision of the project to ensure it was in line with the cost and the planned time frame. According to him, the implementation of the project has been divided into several phases and among the completed works, includes the preparation for a feasibility study, as it is under review by the consulting engineer. The rest includes the construction of offices for the contractor and the consulting engineer, a network of temporary roads, land clearance and a big wall will be erected and creating ways.