GOALS from Simon Msuva and Mbwana have heightened Taifa Stars’ mark smanship to finish joint fif th with African giants Cameroon, Nigeria and Tunisia at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), f inals. The statics released yesterday by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), as a review of the teams after the end of the group stage showdown in Egypt, show that Stars did fairly well in attacking but was among the poorest in defending. Both Msuva and Samatta netted their goals during the 3-2 loss to Kenya’s Harambee Stars. The top scorers, according to statics are Algeria and Mali who have each netted six goals, followed by Egypt, Madagascar, Senegal and Ivory Coast with five goals apiece. DR Congo, Guinea and Ghana are graded third with four goals each, while Kenya, Uganda and giants Morocco are tied with three goals each. Tanzania has equaled with the defending champions Cameroon, the former champions Nigeria, Tunisia and Benin, all have netted two goals apiece. Teams that ended the group stage campaign with a single goal include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Mauritania, Namibia and Angola. According to the statistics, a total of 68 goals have been scored from the 36 matches of the group stage, an average of 1.9 goals per match. Among the brilliant performers are Algeria, Morocco, Egypt and Cameroon. The four teams are yet to concede. Seen as a historic moment in African football, Madagascar are the first debutants at the finals to qualify for the knockout stages since Cape Verde in 2013. Burundi became the third team to fail to score a goal in their first three games in the finals after Ethiopia in 1957 & 1959 and Mozambique in 1986. However, Afcon 2019 was the learning curve for Taifa Stars but deep questions must be asked about the team’s defence, according to pundits. “This tournament has been the learning curve for Tanzania and it has been a cold room, which most of the time they found it too hot. They made too many mistakes in defence,” Shaun Bartlett, the former South African football striker said. Former Kenyan international Musa Otieno said Taifa Stars are going to learn some lesson in defence. “They need to have discipline in the pitch and off the pitch. They need to know once they lose the ball, how are they regrouping. Are they winning the ball as quickly as possible? “Every time they are being caught, they opened up the field and from there no transition. If you cannot play with discipline at that level, you are punished. “The way they (Taifa Stars) are building up, they do it very closer to the opponent. It is easy for them to cheaply lose possession and this is the way they have been conceding goals,” said Otieno. Who during his hey days had a successful spell at AFC Leopards and Tusker FC of Kenya, as well as at South Africa Premier Soccer League side, Santos. Nigerian legend, Jay Jay Okocha also said Taifa Stars will go home knowing that they did not do well. “They haven’t got what it takes… at this moment to play a part in this tournament. For me this tournament came a bit too early for them. However, I know that they have taken some positives and hopefully they will come back strong next time,” he said. For Okocha, the match between Taifa Stars and Algeria was an example of how to play against an underdog. “Y ou don’t make them gain confidence; you constantly put them under pressure. You know when you’ve got quality in your side, if you win the ball high on the pitch; you clearly know you have the better opportunity to score and that is exactly what Algeria did tonight,” he said.