YOUNG Africans have completed the signing of left back Muharami Salum ‘Marcelo’ who has been described as potential replacement of departing Gadiel Michael. Marcelo, 24, was initially signed by Singida United for three years, but he has since jumped the line to trade with the Mainland Premier League’s record winners. His move is somehow similar to the circumstances which surrounded Yanga’s signing of Feisal Salum from Singida United where he also penned a contract with them before crossing the line. The former Zanzibar’s Malindi FC player inked a three-year deal to serve at the Jangwani Street based club as they continue to reinforce the squad ahead of upcoming demanding fixtures which will see them eyeing to challenge reigning champions Simba as far as the chase for the top flight league title is concerned. Yanga last won the domestic trophy two years ago which of late has been dominated by their long term traditional rivals Simba who are also active as far as squad strengthening activities prior to next season are concerned. It is understood that Michael who travelled with the national team, Taifa Stars to Egypt for the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations failed to provide any relevant information regarding his future at the club after the expiring of his twoyear contract. However commenting recently about the issue, Yanga chairman Mshindo Msolla said no player is above the club such that they are ready to move on without him (Michael). “The issue of Michael is over. We consulted him on several occasion before, during and after returning from Egypt but to no avail. What I can say is that no player is above Yanga. Even myself I am not big than the club,” he said. He added that there is no need for a player to trouble his employer because football is life such that you do not know what your next move will be. “On behalf of the club, I am disappointed because he has delayed us to get his successor in time. As of now, we have Ally Mtoni ‘Sonso’ but we need another player as a backup,” he said. So far, Yanga has inked eight foreign players who are Farouk Shikalo, Issa Bigirimana, Patrick Sibomana, Sadney Urikhob, Maybin Kalengo, Juma Balinya, Lamine Moro and Suleyman Mustapha.