THE Attorney General (AG) yesterday asked the Court of Appeal to reverse the High Court’s decision which nullified provisions under the National Election Act, allowing Executive Directors at city, regional and district level to supervise elections as returning officers. Through ten attorneys from his office, led by Solicitor General Dr Clement Mashamba, the AG and two other appellants contended, among other factors, that “ the ruling and drawn order of the trial court did not address itself to pertinent issues put forth by the appellants.” Other appellants in the appeal heard by Justices Augustine Mwarija, Stella Mugasha, Richard Mziray, Rehema Mkuye and Jacobs Mwambegele are National Electoral Commission and the Director of Elections, while the respondent is Mr Bob Chacha Wangwe, who is reported to be an activist. During hearing of the appeal, Dr Mashamba was assisted by Principal State Attorneys Mark Mlwambo, George Mandepo, Alicia Mbuya, Ponsiano Lukosi, Evarist Mahimba, Lucas Malunde, Fausta Mahenge and Grace Lupondo. They pushed for the appeal to be allowed against the decision given on May 10, 2019 by a panel of High Court Judges Atuganile Ngwala, Benhajj Masoud and Firmin Matogoro, who declared as unconstitutional the provisions of sections 7 (1) and (3) of the National Election Act. State lawyers submitted that the judges erred in law and facts by declaring the two sections unconstitutional neither based on Article 74 (14) of the Constitution which is neither pleaded as violated nor made part of the reliefs sought by the respondent. They told the justices of the appeals court that the High Court erred by nullifying the provisions in question based on Article 74 (214), which does not fall under Part III of Chapter One of the Constitution. The attorneys submitted that the trial judges erred in law and facts in finding that city directors, municipal director, town director and district director upon appointment automatically become returning officers for the purposes of conducting elections. According to them, the High Court judges erred for determining and assessing the provisions of sections 7 (1) and 7 (3) of the Act in isolation of other provisions of the same law and the entire scheme of the whole electoral management process. They submitted that the High Court judges failed to properly assess the prohibitions under Article 74 (14) and the safeguards set out in the National Election Act and its regulations, Public Service Act and its regulations as well as other laws and regulations relating to the conduct and management of elections.