PANAFRICAN Energy Tanzania (PAET) has increased volume of processed gas by almost 12.5 per cent thanks to installation of a refrigeration package at Songas facilities. The volume of processed and transported gas to Dar has reached 90 million standard cubic feet per day (MMscfd) from 80 MMscfd. PAET’s Managing Director, Mr Andy Hanna said in a statement that the production potential will be optimised in the coming months and is expected to increase ultimate capacity to 100 MMscfd a day. “These are exciting times for Tanzania which is seeing a marked increase in its power generation capacity, alongside industrial growth,” Mr Hanna said yesterday via a press release. The new capacity will enable PAET to meet early increases in demand for gas to feed new generation facilities and is ready to work with the partners towards meeting long term demand in the future. The statement showed that the on-site work to install the refrigeration system was undertaken during the annual rainy season, when the country’s hydroelectricity plants operate at capacity and demand for electricity from the gas fired plants tends to be lower. “The timing of this work ensured that any necessary interruptions to gas supplies during installation had minimal impact on national power generation,” the statement said. However, despite the increased power generation from hydroelectricity plants during the period, PAET still experienced a significant increase in demand for additional gas. The demand rose by approximately 23MMscfd more for the second quarter of this year compared to demand recorded in the same period last year. PAET, according to the release, anticipates further increases in demand for gas once the new 185-Megawatt (MW) gas fired generation facility has been commissioned at Kinyerezi in Dar es Salaam in this second half. “The company is prepared to meet this demand by delivering additional volumes through the NNGI (National Natural Gas Infrastructure),” the statement showed. During this year’s second quarter, PAET also commenced a low-cost work programme to optimise the configuration of the flow lines that feed gas from the wells to the Songas processing plant on Songo Songo Island and/or the NNGI. “This work is expected to increase overall production capacity by approximately 10 MMscfd,” the statement indicated. The statement said through the side letter agreement between PAET, the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and TANESCO, signed last December and under the terms of the Gas Sales Agreement GAS), signed with the TPDC in May, PAET has continued to sell volumes over and above the Songas facilities throughput of up to 20 MMscfd through the NNGI.