THE Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU), has announced the opening of the universities application window for 2019/20 academic year, cautioning applicants to avoid engaging those claiming to be agents for local colleges. The commission says the window for first round applications will be open from tomorrow until 10th August before opening the second and third rounds according to the needs of enrollment in universities. Executive Secretary of the TCU, Prof Charles Kihampa, briefed journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, welcoming the students to apply, just three days after the release Form Six national examinations results. “The TCU is appealing the people not to be misled by people calling themselves agents or consultants who claim to provide services on how to enroll in the county’s universities. They should apply directly to specific higher learning institutions,” Prof Kihampa insisted. The applicants should send applications directly to the universities by selecting programmes they wish to pursue. Each programme has its guideline that indicates specific criteria. He elaborated that the enrollment of the students will be in three main groups, including form six leavers, those possessing ordinary diploma or related qualifications as well as those who completed a foundation course conducted by the Open University of Tanzania (OUT). Prof Kihampa elaborated that applicants who completed ‘A’ Level studies before 2014 should have two principal passes with a total of 4.0 points in two subjects, specifying a admission into the respective programme. For a category of students who completed A’ Level studies in 2014 and 2015, they needed to have two principal passes with a total of 4.0 points from two subjects, specifying admission into the respective programme. For those who completed A’ Level studies from 2016 onwards; The commission said they should have scored two principal passes with a total of 4.0 points in two subjects specifying the admission into the respective programme. This is the first time for the TCU to accept applicants who went through a foundation programme after it re-introduced such a system. To apply for university admission, the applicants under this system have to have a GPA of 3.0 accumulated from six core subjects and at least a C grade from three subjects in respective cluster (Arts, Science and Business Studies). However, there is minimum entry requirement for specific health-related programmes as detailed in TCU enrollment guideline. The commission has asked applicants to visit websites of the universities to know procedures for sending their applications.