NATIONAL team,   at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The two neighbouring countries will battle it up for a slot in 2020 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) whose finals will be held in Ethiopia next year. After today’s match, the two teams expect to meet again on August 2nd at Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya for the return leg encounter as each side is eager to earn qualification of CHAN contest which features domestic based players. Briefing reporters yesterday here in the absence of Harambee Stars technical members, Ndayiragije said his lads are ready to entertain Kenya Harambee Stars and will strive to make use of home ground advantage to make the reverse tie easy for them. “ So far, we have no problem in the squad since everything is well and the boys have been training hard to emerge winners tomorrow (today). We even had ample time to improve psychology of players,” he said. He added that basing on the level of preparations, he has no doubt of winning the game and put his side on the good path as far as CHAN qualifications is concerned. Asked whether he took trouble to know well his opponents, Ndayiragije said his technical staff have gathered some information about Kenya and that they will also be forced to switch the game plan in accordance with their opponent’s approach on the battlefield. “As you know, football is tricky and unpredictable such that sometimes, one is compelled to change as the game unfolds on the field,” he said. He then called upon supporters to flock the 60,000 seat capacity stadium in their big numbers to rally behind their team throughout the match, insisting that their big presence will add value to Star’s overall performance. On his part, Taifa Stars CHAN skipper John Bocco narrated that the match will be difficult but insisted that they have done adequate preparations and are all set to finish the game in Dar es Salaam. “The good thing so far is that we have been grasping well what our coaches told us during training sessions. We must play with confidence because we are at home,” Bocco said. Moreover, the captain said people should forget about the negative results they recorded against Kenya during the past edition of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt, saying it is now a different competition. “Indeed, we lost against Kenya but that was in AFCON and not in CHAN contest. We have what it takes to post tangible outcome here at home and our main objective is to win and kill the match right here,” he said. He also urged fans to come in big numbers to give them deserved support as they aim to make a remarkable history. Taifa Stars lost 3-2 to Harambee Stars during the AFCON in Cairo after jumping into the lead twice but failed to hold on to their advantage, only to allow Kenya to snatch a late win. The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) put the entry charges to watch the game at 3,000/- for popular seats while VIP B and C have been pegged at 5,000/-.