TANZANIA envisages capturing the East and Southern African market for water pipes as Plasco company invests four million US dollars (over 9bn/-) in state-ofthe- art pipe factory that uses ‘Weholite’ technology. Plasco Weholite Pipe is a large diameter, flexible, lightweight and durable structured wall pipe made from High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) resin. The pipe that does not rot, rust or corrode is easy to install and can withstand high loads. The factory is the first of its kind in East and Central Africa to produce structured Wall High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) pipes for sewerage and drainage, manholes and tanks for storm water retention and drinking/potable water.Industry and Trade Minister Innocent Bashungwa, speaking at the launch of the factory in Dar es Salaam yesterday, said the new technology will attract more investments and boost the economy of the country through exports. “I commend the innovations, which directly contribute to industrial development and increase competitiveness of our industries, domestically and internationally,” Mr Bashungwa said. The minister said the company’s use of innovative technology will accelerate the progress of the pipe manufacturing industry in the country. He urged other industries to invest in innovative technologies to boost the quality of their products to international standards to conquer the regional and international markets. Plasco Chief Operating Officer (COO) Alimiya Osman said the country will no longer need to import plastic pipes because the investment in new equipment meets the growing demand and aligns with the local content policy. “The investment in new equipment supports the government’s efforts to develop critical infrastructure to improve water supply and sanitation systems that will improve the lives of Tanzanians throughout the country,” Mr Alimiya noted. The COO said the use of HDPE materials will ensure that the pipes do not rust or corrode and adhere to international standards. He said since the company started its operations in 1993, Plasco remains committed to manufacturing and supplying quality, robust and leak proof plastic piping systems to customers in Tanzania and neighbouring countries. Plasco has employed over 100 Tanzanians and supports the country’s industrialisation drive and ambitions to become a middle-income economy by 2025. Tanzania, which is the third largest economy in Southern African Development Community (SADC) bloc, continues being the net exporter to other countries in the bloc. The country, according to Bank of Tanzania’s Annual Report issued mid last year, recorded a trade surplus of 12.2 per cent in 2017/18. Tanzania registered a trade surplus of 445.5 million US dollars in 2017, up from 397.2 million US dollars in 2016, thanks to the government initiative to increase trade within the bloc. “Specifically, Tanzania recorded trade surplus with South Africa, DRC, Malawi, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Angola and Botswana,” the BoT latest report shows. SADC is the regional economic bloc of 15 countries in Southern Africa. It aims at greater integration and trade in the region and it’s one of eight regional economic communities in Africa. During the event, Minister Bashungwa was accompanied by other government officials, including Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Emmanuel Kolobelo.