THE Court of Appeal has nullified all proceedings lodged by Pan Africa Energy (Tanzania) Limited before the Tax Appeals Revenue Board, challenging assessment of tax amounting to over 50bn/- by the Commissioner General of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). Justices Kipenka Mussa, Stella Mugasha and Shaban Lila ruled in favour of the TRA after invoking their revisional jurisdiction under the provisions of section 4 (2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act. They held that the appeal which was laid before the Board was incompetent and thus liable to be struck out. “It is beyond question that, in the situation at hand, there is, so far, no objection decision of the CG and, to say the least, going by the specific language used in section 16(1), the purported appeal before the TRAB which did not result from an objection decision of the CG was incompetent,” they ruled. Pan Africa Energy (Tanzania) Limited, a limited company incorporated in Tanzania, which was the appellant in the tax appeal, is a producer and supplier of gas for power generation at the Ubungo Power Plant in Dar es Salaam and also supplies natural gas to industrial and commercial customers in the city. The appellant furthermore supplies Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) for use in motor vehicles. On June 30, 2016, the TRA CG, the respondent, issued to the appellant a notice of amended assessment through which the former informed the latter that her grand tax liability was 46,547,072,764.80. Contemporaneously, the respondent issued to the appellant another notice of assessment through which the former imposed on the latter a tax liability of 7,071,095,810.33. Dismayed by the two notices, on July 14, 2016 the appellant wrote two letters to the respondent, expressing her intention to object. The appellant made a formal request to the respondent for a waiver of the assessed tax under Regulation 95 of the Tax Administration Regulations, 2016. Subsequently, on the July 26, 2016, he formally lodged two notices of objection as against assessments. In the meantime, on July 25 and 28, 2016 in response to the appellant’s request for waiver of tax assessments, the respondent wrote two letters stating that the reasons advanced in the quest for waiver will be reviewed at the objection proceedings. He wrote, “…..the Commissioner has not found good reasons warranting the waiver of tax deposit. Your application for waiver has not been accepted. You are required to make deposit on submission of the objection as required under section 51(5) of TAA otherwise the objection will not be admitted. “ In this regard, it is noteworthy that section 51(5) of the TAA provides that an objection to any tax decision shall not be admitted unless the taxpayer has paid the amount of tax which is not in dispute or one third of the assessed tax, whichever amount is greater. Dissatisfied by the respondent’s refusal to grant her requested waiver, the appellant lodged, in the Board, two statements of appeal with respect to assessments. In the statements, the appellant predicated the appeal under section 16(1) of the Tax Revenue Appeal Act as well as Rule 6(2) of the Tax Revenue Appeals Rules.