THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) president Wallace Karia has said the national team; Taifa Stars will start early preparations for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers. According to the draw conducted by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), in Cairo Egypt on Thursday evening, Taifa Stars are pooled in group J together with Tunisia, Libya and Equatorial Guinea. Karia, who labeled the group as fair for all teams, said they federation is making arrangement for the Taifa Stars to start preparations ahead of the qualifiers kick off. “The most important thing is to start early preparations and thrive to win all three home matches to claim vital nine points and fight for at least one away draw,” Karia said. He said winning all home matches will certainly help a lot to navigate Taifa Stars into the back to back AFCON finals slot. Taifa Stars will face a busy schedule in the coming months, which will involve a lot of travelling. The 2021 AFCON qualifiers, whose finals will be played in Cameroon, will kick off in October, with the first round of matches set for October 7th to 15th this year. Another round of matches in the qualifiers will be played from November 11 to 19th this year before another round come up from August 31st, 2020 to September 8th 2020. Another round of matches will be played from October 3rd to 15th 2020 and the final qualifier matches will be staged from November 9th to 17th, 2020. Taifa Stars is also involved in the African Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers strictly for home based players and they will face neighbours Kenya’s Harambee Stars on July 28 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The return leg will be staged in Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi a week later. Moreover, the TFF boss reiterated about the importance of grooming more professional players to trade outside the country calling it a ‘very’ essential step to create a strong national team capable to shine on international stage. Karia said Africa football has lately changed such that there are no weak and tough opponents hence any team should be respected. “In football, you cannot select teams to play against and if you want to reach far, you should be able to dine on the same table with those who have managed to go further,” Karia said. “Generally, it is not a good or bad group for us. We have seen how good Tunisia are and even Libya. Equatorial Guinea despite being below us in FIFA rankings are not supposed to be devalued either,” said Karia. Likewise, the former Taifa Stars midfielder Mtemi Ramadhani said the current Star’s group is difficult such that efforts on how to make it to Cameroon come 2021 should start now. “Personally, I think if you can ask anybody, Tunisia and Libya are the favourites from this group to go extra mile because they play good football and are financially stable but anything in football can happen and we can too progress,” Ramadhani said. He said Tanzania has potential players who can drive the nation further in football circles but he wondered where the shortfall comes. “Mbwana Samatta is a good example for other players to emulate from. If we can have more players with the similar fighting spirit like him (Samatta), we can as well do it big in this world,” he said. He also said time has come for players to uplift themselves by playing hard on the pitch since coaches have little to contribute towards the team’s success. Furthermore, Ramadhani proposed that TFF should introduce a special system of letting former players to integrate with the national team squad for the former to provide advice to the latter. “Former players have a big role to play towards improving their respective teams which is done globally but here in Tanzania, we lack such trend,” said he.