PROSECUTION has requested for more time to complete investigations into the 10tri/- fraud, tax evasion and money laundering trial against seven people, including senior officials with four Acacia Mining Limited subsidiary companies. State Attorney Wankyo Simon told Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday that certain foreign countries have not responded to the mutual legal assistant on areas the prosecution had applied for. “We have not yet received the responses. Under the circumstance, we request this court to set another mention date as investigations into the matter have not been completed,” the trial attorney submitted. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the case to July 22, 2019. A mutual legal assistance treaty is an agreement between two or more countries of gathering and exchanging information in an effort to enforce public or criminal laws. Modern states have developed mechanisms for requesting and obtaining evidence for criminal investigations and prosecutions. When evidence or other forms of legal assistance like witness statements or service of documents are needed from the foreign countries, states may attempt to cooperate informally through their police agencies or alternatively resort to what is typically referred to as requests for “mutual legal assistance.” Before the trial adjournment, Advocate Gasper Nyika, for the accused, asked the court to discharge the accused over prosecution’s failure to complete investigations. However, before submitting further on the matter, the magistrate directed the advocate to provide him any authority that gives powers to the court to act upon his request. The defence counsel differed to his submissions until the next court session. The accused include President of Pangea Minerals Limited, Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited and North Mara Gold Mine Limited as well as Exploration Minieres Du Nord LTEE Deogratias Mwanyika and Managing Director of the three companies Asa Mwaipopo. Others are Bulyanhulu Company’s Relations Manager Alex Lugendo and four mineral dealer companies. They are facing a total of 39 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, lead organised crime, forge documents and utter false documents. The other charges include corrupt transaction, tax evasion of 918,464,427 US dollars (about 1.8tri/-) and money laundering totalling 3,791,194,540 US dollars (about 7.4tri/-). It is alleged that the accused committed the offences between April 2004 and July 2018 at various places in Dar es Salaam, Shinyanga, Mara and Kagera in Tanzania and various places in South Africa, Canada, in Bardados Island and in United Kingdom (UK). Within the same period and places, Mwanyika, Lugendo and Mwaipopo with other persons not in court are alleged to have knowingly furnished assistance in the management of business of a criminal racket with intent to reap profit or other benefits. The same accused are charged with forgery of two loan agreements and a loan confirmation statement purporting that Pangea Mineral Limited agreed to borrow 90 million US dollars with interest from Barick International Bank Corp and Exploration Minieres Du Nord LTEE.