MOBILE wallet accounts have reached 88 million, with 22.4 million of them described as active for transacting in every three months. According to Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the use of mobile money services has contributed to increase the country’s financial inclusion, which the central bank’s internal study shows has currently crossed 70 per cent from 65 per cent in the last two years. FinScope Survey 2017 statistics put financial inclusion in the country at 65 per cent. Senior Bank Officer at the central bank’s Directorate of National Payment Systems Fabian Kasole, speaking at the 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF), said mobile wallet accounts have surged because majority people possess over one mobile account. “This is an outstanding performance since the bank started introducing and managing the electronic payment systems to benefit all people, both low and high income earners, in the country,” said Mr Kasole. He said since the mobile payment system was rolled out in 2007/08, it has attracted and transformed large part of the country’s population into use of modern payment system. The electronic payment system has enhanced regulatory capabilities by providing transparency and enabling the bank to better perform its oversight responsibilities while ensuring the system safety. The officer said statistics show that 96 per cent of adult population possess mobile phones and can access financial services. The electronic payment system has supported efforts to create cashless society, which is most secure and cost effective. He said before the use of mobile money services were introduced, there were less than six million adults with bank accounts. But, mobile money services have increased users of financial services, accelerating economic growth. He said studies are currently underway to explore ways on how best the payment system can be used in various products. According to BoT Monetary Policy Statement 2019/ 20, utilisation of interoperability capability in mobile money services rose to 146.5 million transactions involving 4.88tri/- in the April-July period last year from 80.7 million transactions worth 3.30tri/- during the corresponding period in the 2017/ 18 fiscal year, representing the 81.6 and 47 .7 per cent rise in volume and value, respectively. The interoperability of mobile financial services has contributed to overall growth of total mobile money transactions by 15.4 per cent in volume and 15.6 per cent in value during the period under review. Last February, BoT launched a project to develop Tanzania Instant Payment System (TIPS), which is expected to become operational by next June. TIPS is the single instant payment platform that will connect different system providers in cost effective and secure manner.