FRENCH Embassy in Tanzania has proposed the establishment of chamber of commerce to carter for business people of both countries. The Embassy proposed that the chamber, French Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, to start with 40 French companies operating in the country to be part of the establishing members. Ambassador of France to Tanzania Mr Fredric Clavier said the French companies are willing to integrate with Tanzanian companies and conduct trade and invest in France. “France is confident in Tanzania’s economic development and French companies do not hesitate to trade with Tanzanians or to invest in the country when opportunity appears,” noted the ambassador during a press briefing at the embassy in Dar es Salaam yesterday. The Embassy is currently in preparation of its first mission of Tanzanian business leaders to France as part of the initiative in establishing the chamber of commerce between the two countries. All this is in response to the visit of 35 French businessmen who came to visit the country last year and evaluated the possibility of investing in Tanzania. This interest for Tanzania in particular is in line of the support to the Tanzanian government in its objective of becoming a middle income country by 2025, he commented. “France completely supports President John Magufuli on this challenge,” the Ambassador said. Explaining that, the French Agency of Development (AFD) that has been financing development projects including energy, transport and water sectors has also doubled its support. “Symbolizing France’s confidence in the country’s capability, AFD has doubled its support dedicated to Tanzania which amounts to 110 million US dollars of loans per year and 23 million US dollars of non-sovereign loans,” he mentioned. In order to help Tanzania to build a sustainable and resilient development, the French Embassy has also made the choice to invest massively in agro ecology, he said. “Therefore, according to the priority given by the Tanzanian government to farming communities, the French Embassy supports a project adapting Tanzanian food production system to cope with climate change while reducing poverty,” Amb Clavier said. An amount of 1.0 million US dollars is being provided by the French government to support 6000 smallholder farmers in Mtwara region. “This initiative shows how economic empowerment can be associated with resilient ways of production, in a sector which will be amongst the most affected by climate change,” he said.