GOVERNMENT vehicles had a considerable share in the country’s most grisly road crashes last year, according to Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola. Road traffic accident data from the Traffic Police Department show that 37 people, including 20 public servants were killed. While 90 others were injured in 10 road accidents involving government vehicles between January and November last year. Responding to this worrying trend, Mr Lugola admitted in August this year that public vehicle drivers were leading in traffic offences, which cost human lives and damaged public properties. Most of the crashes were single-vehicle crashes caused by human errors, with speeding mentioned in most road crashes. While it is not a new phenomenon, road crashes involving government vehicles soared in 2018 amidst road safety stakeholders’ concerted effort to address road fatalities. Enhanced law enforcement, fines and penalties against reckless drivers, education and publicity as well as the use of speed cameras are just some of the interventions employed by the traffic police in collaboration with other road safety stakeholders to curb road crashes, but the results have not been satisfactory. This situation has caused members of the public to raise their eyebrows over the perennial problem. “Who doesn’t know that government vehicles are driven at a high speed like jet flights and on speed bumps they fly like helicopters,” socio-political analyst Julius Mtatiro, wrote in a newspaper column on November 11, last year. The government vehicles, claims Mr Mtatiro, who is now Tunduru District Commissioner, are often cruising at a high speed, ranging from 150km/h to 200km/h, almost the maximum pre-take-off ground-speed for big aircraft. “If we won’t devise a way of controlling government vehicle drivers from speeding, our (public), servants and our leaders will continue losing their lives,” warned Mr Mtatiro. Overtaking other vehicles at a break-neck speed and on dangerous roads often leads to fatal crashes. The head of Legal Department at the Traffic Headquarters, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Deus Sokoni speaking at a road safety stakeholders’ meeting with lawmakers in Dodoma earlier this year noted that government vehicles were recklessly causing road crashes, leading to deaths and severe injuries to public servants and leaders. ASP Sokoni said expensive government vehicles were damaged and the government incurred financial losses to repair them. “Some vehicles that cost the government a colossal amount of money are damaged beyond repair,” he explained. The WHO Global Road Safety Status Report, 2018 suggests that road traffic crashes cost most countries three per cent of their GDP. ASP Sokoni maintained that speeding and reckless behaviour among government vehicle drivers were to blame for the scourge of crashes. He said speeding compromised drivers’ ability to control vehicles and they ended up causing crashes. “Failure to take precautions and lack of defensive driving skills are other reasons behind the crashes involving government vehicles,” added Mr Sokoni. According to ASP Sokoni, managing speed in government vehicles has proved to be one of the biggest challenges for law enforcers in the country simply because government drivers, especially those driving senior public officers, violate traffic rules and regulations at will. “If they are stopped by the traffic police, they will just flash lights and continue speeding when the leaders are in,” explained ASP Sokoni, adding that some of the drivers were very young, lacked experience and did not make a road risk assessment. The drivers of governmentvehicles and often their bosses are usually in a rush to reach certain destinations within a certain time limit. This is not always achievable due to many factors, including tight schedules, poor weather conditions and traffic snarl ups on some roads. Due to the drivers’ pressure to reach their destinations on time as well as the perception that they won’t be penalised when theybreach traffic rules and regulations, the drivers normally violate speed limits. Mr Lugola decried government vehicle drivers, who violated traffic rules and regulations at will and speeded up, while their bosses looked on without warning them. He challenged government officials to be role models by obeying national laws and driving safely to reduce road accidents caused by speeding. “Public leaders must be speed governors of their speeding drivers and must be watchdogs of traffic rules and regulations. I have directed traffic police officers to take action in accordance with the law,’’ he explained. This has probably significantly reduced road accidents, as no deadly crashes involving government vehicles have been reported during the first half of this year. To curb road accidents caused by government vehicles, the police say, it is important for drivers to undergo a VIP driving course, including defensive driving training. Defensive driving skills are essential for both new and experienced drivers, according to ASP Sokoni. The defensive driving course imparts to drivers skills to be cautious and take appropriate action to prevent road crashes or reduce fatalities and injuries. Road safety experts describe defensive driving as a set of road skills, techniques and strategies that assist a driver to defend himself or herself against possible collisions. Defensive driving, according to the US-National Safety Council’s Defensive Driving Course, is “driving to save lives, time, and money, in spite of the conditions around you and the actions of others”. According to the police, road safety seminars should be offered to public leaders to improve their understanding of risk factors and act responsibly when on public roads. “During the recruitment of government drivers the traffic police should be consulted to ensure qualified and experienced drivers are recruited,” stressed ASP Sokoni. The police also advised that a government circular was issued stating that the drivers of public vehicles, who committed traffic offences, including speeding should not be shielded by their bosses. President John Magufuli has often expressed dismay over road crashes and tasked law enforcers to address recurrent roads tragedies, most of which are caused by recklessness and a violation of road safety rules and regulations. In April 2018, the President directed the Police Force, regional and district security and defence committees, as well as other responsible organs, to take appropriate action to curb the menace. He reiterated his call when he hosted traffic police officers in September 23, 2018, as he used the spur-of-the-moment meeting to encourage the law enforcers to work without fear and punish whoever violated traffic rules and regulations. “I want to encourage you to continue working hard and take stern measures against those violating the Road Traffic Act. You shouldn’t be intimidated by any sued body, but make sure you don’t mistreat anybody,” directed President Magufuli. The President’s statement noted that no driver should enjoy impunity upon being found guilty of committing road traffic offences. Responding to an outcry by Members of Parliament over government drivers’ attitude to speeding, Deputy Home Affairs Minister, Hamad Yussuf Masauni said the government had already is‘anysued directives to the Police Force to take stern measures against all public vehicle drivers found guilty of traffic offences. He insisted that no one was above the law and every person, including government drivers, were required to abide by the Highway Code. The government wants harsh penalties imposed on its errant drivers.” “We have instructed the traffic police to arrest errant drivers, put them in custody before they are arraigned and once they are out, they will be penalised again by revoking their driving licences,” the minister told the House last November. To improve the performance and behaviour of public vehicle drivers, Mr Masauni, who is also the chairman of the National Road Safety Council, informed the House that the government would ensure all its drivers, new and experienced ones attended defensive and VIP driver training. Law enforcers have taken on board the government’s directives as confirmed by the Traffic Police Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP), Fortunatus Musilimu. “We’re mounting road patrol operations to deter violators of traffic rules and regulations. We want to curb reckless driving and unwanted road crashes. We don’t want to keep losing our experts, who the government has invested a great in deal to train them just because of reckless crashes that could be prevented,” said SACP Musilimu. The traffic chief noted that law enforcers were taking serious measures against unruly government vehicle drivers, warning that no one would be spared. “We’ll arrest them, curfew them and put them in custody before they’re sent to court and when they come out their licence classes will be reviewed and some will be disqualified from driving government vehicles.” He said these measures had increased compliance among public vehicle drivers. The challenge to law enforcers is ensure this is sustained.