TANZANIA has reiterated its commitment to full implementation of the judgments and orders of the Africa Court on Human and Peoples Rights (Af- CHPR). Speaking on behalf of the Solicitor General on Thursday, Principal State Attorney from the Attorney General’s Chambers Alicia Mbuya said the country would continue according the Arusha based court full judicial cooperation in the dispensation of justice on the continent. According to Ms Mbuya, the number of cases instituted against the country at the AfCHPR attested to Tanzania’s commitment to promoting human rights and the rule of law. “Over half of the cases filed at AfCHPR originate from Tanzania. This is indicative of our commitment to spearheading the promotion of human rights on the continent,” said Ms Mbuya after the court’s launch of it first volume of the African Court Law Report (AfCLR). Ms Mbuya noted that Tanzania was restating its commitment to protecting human rights at home and on the continent as a whole. She further commended AfCHPR for launching the law report, assuring that the office of the Solicitor General would endeavour the dissemination of the report. On his part, AfCHPR Vice President Justice Ben Kioko noted that by compiling all decisions from the Court’s first decade of operation in one publication, the Court had significantly lessened the trouble that researchers and practitioners often encountered when looking for the Court’s jurisprudence. He noted that the report would significantly simplify the process of engaging with the continental court jurisprudence. “As a matter of fact, the Court itself is, arguably, the biggest beneficiary of this publication,” he explained. “With this publication, the Court will find it far easier to cross reference its own jurisprudence. This, therefore, sets the Court on a course that will enable it to deliver a jurisprudence that remains stable and consistent.” According to Judge Kioko, Volume 1 of the report covers only the first decade of the Court’s jurisprudence up to 2016.