THE government through National Environment Management Council (NEMC) has reaffirmed commitment to protect Rufiji water sources given its potentials for the successful implementation of Stiegler’s Gorge hydro power project. Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office, Union and Environment, January Makamba said here over the weekend after touring the project site accompanied by NEMC senior officials that the major goal was to conserve the environment in all water sources for sustainability of the project development. “The preservation of Rufiji water sources is important for sustainable development of the power dam project, which will bring a lot of benefits to the nation,” he said. Mr Makamba added that NEMC has already opened an office at the project site to ensure the smooth implementation of the project. “The presence of experts at the project site is crucial for easy accessibility of their services when needed and easy monitoring of the project development in relation to environment protection,” he said. Mr Makamba called on people living in the neighbourhood of rivers flowing to Rufiji to consciously protect the environment and sustainably use the water knowing that there is need for water in national development activities. NEMC Director General Dr Samuel Gwamaka said the council continues implementing its objectives in preserving the environment through educating its stakeholders on environmental protection to support the government vision of a middle income and industrial economy country by 2025. “We continue with our environment conservation mission through educating people on the importance of protecting environment for the benefit of the nation in general,” he said. Dr Gwamaka pointed out that the Stiegler’s Gorge project will bring not only power production but also tourists in the area to see one of the biggest electrical dams in Africa. Selous Game Reserve Manager Henock Msoche assured security and support to all the people working in the project area. “We are well positioned and our security people are at work all the time to ensure that people working in the project area are safe,” he said.