TANZANIA representatives in the ongoing CECAFA Kagame Cup competition Azam FC and KMC will begin their assignments today in Kigali, Rwanda aiming to start on a high note. Defending champions Azam will open their campaign by taking on home side Mukura FC at Huye Stadium, while debutants KMC will lock horns with Atlabara FC at Kigali Stadium respectively. For Azam, they have vast experience in the competition and will be keen to retain it for the third successive time, while for KMC, the contest will be used as a good weighing platform for its newly picked Head Coach Jackson Mayanja. Ugandan Mayanja, the former Simba SC Coach has a busy schedule with the Kinondoni based club, making sure that he steers it to prosperity, while continuing where the club’s past Burundian coach Etienne Ndayiragije left. The Burundian had a good season with KMC, sailing them into the semifinals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), where they lost 1-0 to Azam. Speaking recently, Azam Assistant Coach Idd Cheche said their target is to defend the title once again. “We are going to compete and not to participate. As you know, we have been doing well in this competition for a long time and we want that positive trend to continue,” he said. On the other hand, KMC Communication Officer Anwari Mbinde said despite them being debutants, they have the quality to make it big. “The coach will also use this chance to make good selection of the squad which will be used throughout the upcoming busy schedule, where we will compete in the Mainland Premier League, CAF Confederation Cup and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC),” he said. Both teams admitted that they will use the contest to shape up their respective squads prior to the upcoming busy schedules. Azam FC are paired in group B against KCCA of Uganda, Mukura FC and Kenya’s Bandari respectively. Another Mainland side, KMC have been paired against hosts Rayon Sports, the reigning Rwandan champions and one-time CECAFA Kagame Cup winners in group A. The arguably tough group also has DR Congo giants TP Mazembe and South Sudan’s Atlabara. Rwanda will be hosting the tournament, Africa’s oldest club competition, for the first time since 2014. Local giants APR, who are in Group C along with Green Buffaloes of Zambia, Ugandan outfit Proline and Heegan from Somalia, won three of the previous four editions held in Rwanda – in 2004, 2007 and 2010 – before finishing second in 2014. Gor Mahia, Kenya’s most successful club will go into the two-week competition as Group D favourites following their relatively easy draw against Motema Pembe of DR Congo, KMKM of Zanzibar and Djibouti’s AS Ports.