TANZANIA yesterday registered another history as Julius Nyerere International Airport’s (JNIA) terminal III started operations, with Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) officially re-launching direct flight from Dar es Salaam to Mumbai. Speaking during the historic event, Minister for Works, Transport and Communications Engineer Isack Kamwelwe said it was a milestone step for the country and especially for ATCL, saying the flights will help in boosting tourism, business, investment and culture. It was further noted that the new terminal is set to handle 6.5 million passengers, annually, more than double the capacity of the other two terminals whose capacity is about 2.5 million passengers. Eng Kamwele stressed that the government was implementing the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s (CCM) election manifesto by improving air transport through renovating and constructing new airports countrywide and purchasing new aircrafts. He further explained that the flights will also promote the good relationship between India and Tanzania as well as other countries. “Commencement of these flights and Terminal III are efforts by President J ohn Magufuli to revive air transport and boost ATCL operations,” he said. The new flights will also reduce time consumed during travels, reduce costs and promote business even with neighbouring countries. “We ask people who have responsibilities of managing this terminal and the flights to work efficiently and not let down customers and Tanzanians in general,” Eng Kamwelwe noted. According to him, they are planning to introduce other flight to Nairobi in December this year and he urged stakeholders and citizens to support government’s efforts. At the same event, ATCL Managing Director Ladislaus Matindi said the national carrier has just recently introduced flights to Johannesburg in South Africa, followed by Dar-Mumbai and more other international flights are underway. “Our airline will offer low fares in the market but I call on passengers to make early bookings of their tickets,” he said. Mr Matindi noted that the new flight was another development to increase regional and international flights and beef up competition in the airline industry. ATCL Board Chairman Engineer Emmanuel Korosso said the new flight was important and will increase passengers, investors and business people and therefore boost income. “We will strive to manage our schedules well, be focused and efficient,” he added.