THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) late on Wednesday denounced claims which went viral on social media platforms that they are planning to hire Cameroonian Joseph Omog as new trainer of the national team, Taifa Stars. This comes after the then Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike was sacked recently by the federation. The Nigerian guided Taifa Stars into the ongoing 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt after 39 years of absence. One of the main clauses in Amunike’s contract was to take the team to AFCON finals which he succeeded but ended up loosing all three matches, his side was exposed to in the group stages. They lost 2-0 to Senegal, Kenya (3-2) and Algeria (3-0) altogether. Such results did not go well with several sport fans in the country, who could not help but direct their blame towards Amunike, criticising his squad selection ability. However, immediately after his sacking, the name of former Simba and Azam Head Coach Omog was seen and heard often as Amunike’s successor at the driving seat of Taifa Stars. Reacting to the development, TFF denied the speculations insisting that the federation has neither appointed a new coach nor Omog requested to take charge of the senior team. “The circulating claims that Omog will be named new coach of Taifa Stars are unfounded and the two parties have never met to talk about it,” reads part of the letter signed by the federation’s Media and Communication Officer Clifford Ndimbo. It further said the names of new coaches to steer the team in the upcoming Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) will be unveiled after the Emergency Meeting to be held soon. Tanzania will face Kenya in the CHAN match late this month at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam hoping to heal the wounds sustained in the past meeting of the two neighbouring nations at the progressing AFCON matches. Taifa Stars lost 3-2 to Harambee Stars. But, this time around, the battle will be different since only domestic players are eligible to embrace the competition, which seem to be a good platform for Tanzania to reverse the previous results. Omog was fired as Simba coach in 2017 immediately after the team’s defeat to the First Division League (FDL) side Green Warriors in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) encounter and his then right hand man Burundian Masoud Djuma took over as caretaker mentor. Before joining the Msimbazi Street giants, the Cameroonian coach traded at Azam FC, where he helped them clinch Mainland Premier League title in 2013/2014 season.