THE Egyptian government has assured the government of Tanzania that the construction of Rufiji Hydroelectric Power Station Project will be completed on time as planned. Egyptian Deputy Minister for Housing, Utilities and Urban communities Mahmoud Nassar said yesterday, when he toured the construction site that his government was making a close follow-up on the construction of the project. Stiegler’s Gorge Hydroelectric Power Station, which is expected to generate 2,115MW, is constructed by the Egyptian based companies, The Arab Contractors and Elsewedy Electrics. “The Egyptian government is making a close follow-up on the implementation of this project. We believe the companies will be able to complete the job on time,” said the deputy minister, who is on a three-day visit in the country. He said the mega project marked the long time strong relationship between Egypt and Tanzania and that his country was proud of it. The deputy minister said he was satisfied with the implementation of the project and he believed the construction companies would maintain efficiency. “I will brief the Head of State Abdel Fattah el-Sisi on the progress of the implementation of this project,” he noted. He added: “This will not be the last visit. I believe there will be more officials from the Egypt President’s office to visit the project.” He explained that Egypt was proud of implementing the mega project and it felt respected to implement such a big development project. For his part, Egyptian Ambassador to Tanzania Mohamed Abulwafa said they had been getting good cooperation from the government of Tanzania in the implementation of the project. He said his office was making a close follow-up on the implementation of the project knowing clearly that President Magufuli and his counterpart Abdel Fattah el-Sisi had prioritised. Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco) Managing Director, Dr Tito Mwinuka, said he was glad to see the deputy minister visiting the project. He said Tanesco would continue supervising the project and ensure it was completed on time.