TWO major banks—NMB and CRDB—have released 300m/- to support Association of Local Authorities of Tanzania’s (ALAT) five-day annual general meeting that starts here today. The two banks have disbursed 150m/- each to sponsor the yearly event, according to the statements that the financial institutions issued separately over the weekend. NMB Bank has for the past five years dished out a total of over 750m/- in supporting the event. NMB Bank’s Chief of Retail Banking Filbert Mponzi said here over the weekend that the financial institution appreciates the impressive business potential in 180 local government authorities (LGAs) in which it currently operates, saying sponsorship to ALAT’s meetings denotes the existing cordial relations between the bank and LGAs. He was speaking shortly after handing over a 150m/- dummy cheque to ALAT. “We are extending our services across the country to reach 180 local government authorities with different financial services to staff, business groups and even ward councillors,” he said. ALAT Chairman Gulamhafeez Mukadam expressed gratitude to NMB for the continuous support to the association, saying this year’s donation was a true expression of the partnership tions between the bank and LGAs. He was speaking shortly after handing over a 150m/- dummy cheque to ALAT. “We are extending our services across the country to reach 180 local government authorities with different financial services to staff, business groups and even ward councillors,” he said. ALAT Chairman Gulamhafeez Mukadam expressed gratitude to NMB for the continuous support to the association, saying this year’s donation was a true expression of the partnership between the two institutions. He said different communities in the LGAs still encounter a number of development challenges, which need supporters and partners to tackle. He however challenged the bank to review its approach for donations, proposing material support in addition to fiscal support, which sometimes doesn’t deliver the expected results, timely. Citing construction projects in different parts of the country, Mr Mukadam said NMB might participate directly into providing materials instead of money to ensure the projects are completed. “I think the bank can now change approach towards donating funds to the projects and ensure the projects under their supports are completed and value for money is realised,” said the ALAT boss. ALAT Executive Council Member and Sumbawanga Mayor Justine Malisawa thanked the bank’s systems that have facilitated smooth collection of revenues especially for the last three years. He was supported by another ALAT Member Zainab Vullu who asked the bank to extend its wings to the isolated areas particularly in Coast region and introduce soft loans with affordable interest rates for small scale businesses. She said review of interest rates will enable low income earners conducting their small businesses in the villages to benefit from the bank’s services by taking loans to expand their businesses. Meanwhile, CRDB Bank said it offered 150m/- to cover the meeting related expenses. CRDB Director of Retail Banking Boma Labala handed over the money to ALAT National Chairman Gulamhafeez Mukadam in Mwanza over the weekend, the bank said in its statement.