STAKEHOLDERS and regulators of Tanzania’s major health training institutions yesterday met to set up minimum requirements for training of health professionals in the country. The aim is to set a generic curriculum which will be used as a reference or set point for all medical and nursing graduates. “Today we are meeting to discuss what a nurse or doctor should have as a minimum or basic skills to be declared qualifying by standards,” said the Transforming of Health Education training for professionals in Tanzania (THET), Principal Investigator, Professor Gideon Kwesigabo. Prof Kwesigabo said THET aims to improve the ability of physicians and nurses to serve Tanzanians by agreeing on common minimum competences. He said for years the country did not have a common training curriculum for health professionals’ education, and as a consequence, graduates from medical universities lacked adequate competencies to deliver quality healthcare services to patients. The 7bn/-THET project, which seeks to transform health education training in Tanzania, is a consortium of three medical universities- Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (Muhas), Catholic University of Health and Allied Sciences (Cuhas), and Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre College (KCM College). The meeting involved representatives from the Medical Council of Tanganyika (MCT), the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU), as well as several other medical colleges from across the country. Prof Kwesigabo further said that the aim is to set a basic curriculum that will be dispersed to all universities in the country as they want to create a graduate who is skilled and has knowledge and character needed for a professional person. “We need to prepare confident, competent and committed graduates for them to lead the healthcare profession properly in the country,” he said. Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU), Director of Accreditation, Dr Telemu Kasisile, said they are supporting the initiative, for higher learning institutions to produce competent graduates. “As regulators, we embrace this project, several times we have been emphasizing universities to produce day one competent graduates who will later gain experience while on the job,” he noted. MUHAS Deputy Vice- Chancellor-Academic, Prof Polinary Kamuhambwa, said the five-year project launched in February 2019 is expected to come up with a curricular that will improve abilities and competence with required skills for health workers to be able to work in any environment in the country.