BANK of Tanzania (BoT) expects to publish Consumer Protection Regulations next week that will guarantee customers to get reliable and secure services from banks in the country. This was said by BoT Governor, Prof Florens Luoga , yesterday at the 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) taking place at Sabasaba grounds along Kilwa Road. “The document is ready for publishing after being endorsed by the Finance and Planning Minister,” he said adding that, the Regulations aimed at ensuring customers got banking services that would help solve their financial problems as well as contribute to economic wellbeing. With the Regulations, banks are required to strictly observe ethical values guiding customer service to provide high quality services that will meet their needs. Banks should not exploit customers, but address and support endeavours to eradicate poverty from the community. He said a bank that caused any disturbance was supposed to provide a remedy to an aggrieved customer such as compensation for not being able to either access or in case of losses of money. For example, when a customer fails to access his or her account due to one or another problem caused by the bank, the financial institution should ensure such a problem is fixed in 24 hours. A customer is supposed to lodge a claim with the BoT’s complaints desk in case the bank does not act within the given time. This could be, for instance, if a customer fails to withdraw money from an ATM, which at the end of the day the machine registers that the money has been withdrawn. Another one could be, for instance, when after lodging the claim against the respective bank, the latter refuses to refund the money giving other reasons. Moreover, he said with the Regulations each bank was required to establish the consumer complaints desk to receive queries and provide solutions to problems customers met when making use of banking services. The BoT complaints desk receives complaints five days a week from Monday to Friday and its objective is to resolve banking consumer complaints amicably. The banking institution is supposed to keep complainants updated throughout the process.