THE Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) has invited prospective and practising farmers to visit its Nane Nane Pavilion at Nyakabindi grounds in Bariadi District, Simiyu Region, to acquaint themselves with TADB services. In a press release issued yesterday as the nation prepares for this year’s Nane Nane Exhibition, TADB Managing Director Japhet Justine appealed to members of the public to visit the bank’s pavilion to benefit from requisite information, facts and data that will be offered by bank employees in Simiyu. “We will be present at our pavilion at Nyakabindi grounds to provide answers and solve problems raised by visitors. We appeal to small farmers to visit our pavilion so that they can know the services we offer to modernise agriculture so that it becomes truly the backbone of Tanzania’s industrial revolution,” Mr Justin said. He noted the bank was committed to promoting the value chain of products in the sectors of agriculture, livestock and fisheries so that Tanzanian industries depended on quality raw materials. Last year’s TADB Pavilion attracted many visitors. Banking on last years’ experience and success, Mr Justine said: “Last year, we were honoured by many visitors, who showed great interest in our services and products. This time we are even more prepared to serve them better. There is no small question or small problem is small or irrelevant to us,” noted the managing director. He explained that with an innovative approach the bank was offering smallholder farmers’ guaranteed loans to facilitate the progress of commercial agricultural enterprises through project financing and had innovative packages he named as wholesale loans, blending finance and syndication. The bank also finances agricultural surveys and researches and offers profession financial counselling to promote agricultural projects. Mr Justin used the opportunity to thank Simiyu Regional Commissioner Anthony Mtaka for his involvement in the preparation for the annual exhibition so that many visitors could visit various pavilions and access their services. The region is hosting the pavilion for the second consecutive year.