SHEIKH Ponda Issa Ponda is likely to enter into another trouble following a Court of Appeal decision to order him to be returned to the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court for proper conviction in a forceful entry case he is facing. The decision appeared to be in favour of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), who had sought the Appeals Court’s direction, the highest temple of justice in the country, opposing his acquittal, being the Secretary of Council of Islamic Organisation in a charge against him. Justices Stella Mugasha, Ferdinand Wambali and Rehema Kerefu nullified some parts of the proceedings having found that Sheikh Ponda, the respondent in the appeal, was not properly convicted by the Dar es Salaam Court as required by the law, where he was sentenced to a conditional discharge of one year. They noted that although the respondent was found guilty on the second count of forceful entry in his involvement in a dispute concerning a Dar es Salaam plot and acquitted on other four charges, he was not convicted as required under section 235 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA). “In the circumstances, failure to convict the respondent is fatal to the proceedings that followed thereafter and indeed, it cannot be said that he was sentenced validly. The trial court only made a finding on the guilt of the respondent, but did not complete its duty to convict him,” the justices said. Referring to several decided cases, they pointed out that it has been held that finding the accused guilty or not guilty alone was not sufficient as the trial court must go further to either convict or acquit and failure to convict him renders the judgment invalid. According to the justices, it followed that even the proceedings and judgment that followed at the High Court could not be valid. They said that it was unfortunate that the anomaly was not noticed by the High Court which sat in the first appeal. “In the event, in exercise of our revisional powers under section 4 (2) of (Appellate Jurisdiction Act), we accordingly nullify the proceedings of the trial court from the stage, where the mitigation started followed by the sentence meted on the respondent, as the same were based on invalid conviction,” they declared. Mitigations are submissions made by the prosecution and defence after conviction of the accused before the trial court to enter the sentence according to the law. Similarly, the justices proceeded to nullify the proceedings and judgment of the High Court as the same were based on the incompetent appeal. “We further order that the file of the trial court in respect of the remaining part of the proceedings be remitted to the trial with directions to enter conviction against the respondent and pass sentence according to law,” they ruled. Sheikh Ponda was found guilty by Senior Resident Magistrate Victorian Nongwa at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court on June 2, 2014, of one count of forceful entry onto the plot situated at Chang’ombe area in Temeke District and given a suspended sentence of 12 months. Through his advocate Juma Nassoro, Sheikh Ponda appealed to the High Court against the trial court’s decision. In his judgment, High Court Judge Augustine Shangwa found that the evidence relied by the trial court to convict the Muslim cleric was weak and, hence insufficient to hold him guilty. He ruled that the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Sheikh Ponda forced his ways to enter into the plot in question and there were no evidence to show that he had seduced his followers to invade the area. It was at that point in time when the DPP decided to take the matter to the Appeals Court, the highest temple of justice in the country, to oppose the verdict passed by the High Court in November 2014, quashing Ponda’s conviction and set aside the sentence imposed on him.