AFRICAN countries should enhance cooperation among themselves to achieve common objectives for the betterment of the continent and its peoples. Speaking to visiting Media Managers from various African countries here, the Egyptian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Sameh Shoukry, said the continent had a lot of potentials to enable its countries benefit from each other. He observed that Africa needed a home-grown cooperation, a break away from what has been modeled by the colonial masters to speed up social and economic development in the continent. “Through cooperation, Africa can solve its own problems. We can cooperate in many ways…in the transfer of technology, industrial development, education, health, trade and in many more areas,” he noted. He said for many years Africa was made to rely on and to cooperate with the North, noting that it was high time African countries looked deep to the South for mutual interest. The minister told about 30 media managers that Egypt was all out to scale up its cooperation with African countries and that establishment of the post of Deputy Foreign Minister for African Affairs was a move towards ensuring strong cooperation. He also challenged African journalists to serve as ambassadors for reporting the good and positive stories about the continent and promoting bilateral and multilateral cooperation in Africa. “Africa has achieved a lot of success …in science, technology, education, health….. we must promote ourselves by telling the world about our achievements,” he said. Responding to questions on the security concerns in the continent particularly the involvement of youth in terrorist and extremist groups, Mr Shoukry said Egypt was aware of the existence of such groups and that his country was committed to ensure sustained peace and stability in the continent. The minister said the matter was complicated hence the need for Africa to change the way it looked at the problem by stopping the ideas that fuel establishment of terrorist and extremist groups and instead address factors that drive the youth into those groups. He said youth are very important for nations and continental development, underscoring the need to develop their capacities in the areas of education to make them productive. However, he observed that each country in Africa had own plans in various fields, including education and capacity building, which if combined the continent will have one comprehensive plan capable of expediting achievement of common goals. Mr Shoukry said the African Union (AU) for example, has a comprehensive plan 2023, which aims at building a prosperous Africa. The plan which was adopted by the AU Summit in 2015 has seven aspirations and 20 associated goals for achieving transformations in five key areas, including bringing about improvements in living standards. Other areas are to ensure transformed inclusive and sustainable economies; integrated Africa; empowered women, youth and children and well governed, peaceful and cultural centric Africa in a global context. The 10-year Plan (2014 -2023) forms the first phase of the AU’s 50-year Agenda 2063 of attaining the Pan African Vision of an integrated, prosperous and peaceful Africa driven by its own citizens representing a dynamic force in the international arena. The media managers from Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Namibia, South Africa, Sudan, South Sudan, Somalia, Ethiopia, Togo, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Cameroon, Angola, Gabon, Guinea, Mauritania, Mauritius, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Chad and Djibouti are in Egypt for 15 Days for a Programme on Media and Sustainable Development. Organized by the Egyptian Agency of Partnership for Development (EAPD), the programme includes meeting with a number of Egyptian high level officials, a workshop, field visits and cultural trips.