STUDENTS at St Joseph University in Tanzania (SJUIT) have invented “Automated Hydroponic” technology, which facilitates farming without soil, whereby the growth of plants is dependent on water. The technology is only for vegetables and fruits whereby water is mixed with the needed nutrients to feed such type of plants. The water rotates in a plastictype garden with plants, feeding the plants with the nutrients and gets the water back into its tank. “The water is pumped by the motor and should be rotating in turns to avoid overfeeding. It should be 15 minutes on, and 15 minutes off to give enough time for the plant to absorb the nutrients. We do normally add nutrients when the water is back into its tank, for another round of rotation,” said one of the inventors, Mr Muhabe Muhabe. He explained during the ongoing 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair that the group of inventors undertook simple research and found that water fed plants grew up faster than the ones planted in soil. It is because naturally, the soil contains various types of minerals and nutrients which cannot be filtered to have the only needed nutrients for certain plants, said Mr Muhabe. For the newly invented technology, the water is mixed with the only needed nutrients which enable vegetable and fruit related plants to grow up within 30 days, because they are fed day and night. The inventor said that the technology is already in markets and the prices differ according to the size of the garden one wants to introduce. “It is a greenhouse type of farming to prevent destructive insects, diseases and also to control humidity. Full technology is composed of devices we call PH Sensor, GSM module, LCD, water motor, fan, pipes and water tank. It a simple technology with huge and quick turn-ups, in terms of farm outputs and income,” he said. The group, which comprises four inventors pursuing a Bachelor’s degree course in engineering in electronics and communications, urged the government and stakeholders to support dissemination of the technology, which has the potential to produce quick returns, thereby improving their lives. The group of inventors’ also conducted a survey and found that there was a high demand for vegetables and fruits in Dar es Salaam, hence the need for raising production, said another inventor, Mr James Mshana