Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) has recovered over 14.7bn/- while seizing bank accounts with 20bn/- since 2016 over their linkages to corrupt practices. Speaking at the 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF), the PCCB Commissioner General, Diwani Athumani, said that apart from forfeiting 14.7bn/-, seven houses and four vehicles were seized for being linked to graft activities. “We are determined to win the war against graft. Any individual involved in corruption will be prosecuted, jailed and have one’s assets seized,” he told exhibitors and other participants on ‘Sabasaba’ grounds yesterday. During the period under review, he said the bureau also seized almost 150 assets linked to corrupt practices, including houses, vehicles and farms. He said the government would continue to work closely with the private sector in its endeavours to curb corruption, which has been hindering their growth and contribution to economic growth. The PCCB boss noted further that corruption should not be taken lightly because its repercussions were adverse and negatively affected scores of people. “Where corruption becomes rampant, there is no peace, no justice and most importantly no delivery of services,” he said, noting that the vice can totally destroy the economy by discouraging Foreign Direct Investment as well as local investments in the country. A University of Dar es Salaam senior lecturer, Prof Honest Ngowi, said during discussions that corruption practices directly affected efforts to attract and retain investments. He mentioned effects like the increased cost of doing business through informal transactions in which an investor may be obliged to engage in order to speed up an intended project. Prof Ngowi also cited an example of contractors undertaking road projects below standards, whose effects covered the government and wananchi as well. “The government that spends over 60 per cent of the budget for various procurements and the private sector as key player in the procurement process through various tenders are both the victims in case there are corruption incidences during the process,” he noted. On his part, the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Prof Mussa Assad said there was no way of separating public and private sectors particularly when one part is forced and involved in corrupt practices. “We need to enhance transparency in procurement processes, an area that has huge chances of attracting corruption practices,” he said, adding that his office was working very closely with the PCCB to provide necessary support during investigations. In his opening remarks, the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Public Service and Good Governance), Mr George Mkuchika, said the government’s efforts in the battle against graft had paid off due to positive reports from both local and international organizations. “The government’s efforts in the battle against graft have seen increased revenue collections, implementation of mega infrastructure projects, improvement of health services, education and financial services,” he said.