The African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights has created a new jurisprudence in criminal justice after awarding compensation to a convict of a criminal offence and his close relatives for violations of some of his basic rights. Including the government’s failure to provide him free legal representation during the trial. Such case involved a Tanzanian Alex Thomas. Our Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA, who attended the case in Arusha City, recently reports… IT is a well-known principle that legal assistance and representation is a constitutional and statutory right, as provided for under Article 13(6), of the United Republic of Tanzania. This means that once infringed the person’s basic rights are injured. However, it is evident that most people in Tanzania do not enjoy such rights due to various reasons. Under the Legal Aid (Criminal Proceedings), Act, accused persons facing offences with capital punishments such as murder and treason are only accessed with free legal representation. Such law mandates the State with the responsibility to pay the legal aid services provided by an Advocate assigned to help the accused during the criminal trial. The government is not obliged to provide such right in other offence, like armed robbery, under which Thomas was facing. But the African Court has come up with a different approach. When delivering judgment on merits in application by Thomas to challenge findings of Tanzanian courts over his guilty, though it could not restore his liberty, the continental court found the state violated some rights under International laws. The violated rights are those contained under Articles 12(1), (a), (c) and (d) of the African charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and Article 14(3) (d) of the International Covenant on Civil and political Rights. It is stated that the local court at the trial level concluded the case against Thomas, the Applicant, on the charge of armed robbery in his absence and not even the government of United Republic of Tanzania, as respondent state, providing him free legal representation at any stage of the proceedings. Having found these violations, the court consequently ordered the respondent state “to take all necessary measures within a reasonable time to remedy the violations found, specifically precluding the reopening of the defence case and the retrial of the Applicant. In its judgment on the merits, the Court concluded that there was a violation of the Applicants’ right to a fair trial as a result of continuing with the defence case in his absence and the failure to provide him free legal representation during those proceedings. The Court noted that the conclusion of the Applicant’s trial in his absence and the nonprovision of legal aid caused him anguish and despair due to the resulting unfairness. This caused moral prejudice to the Applicant. In its deliberations, the Court pointed out that Article 27(1) of the Protocol provides, “lf the Court finds that there has been violation of a human or peoples’ right it shall make appropriate orders to remedy the violation including the payment of fair compensation or reparation.” Under such circumstances, the continental court was of the views that the Applicant was entitled to compensation. Pursuant to Rule 63 of the Rules, the Court directed the Applicant to file his submissions on reparations. In the application, the Applicant alleged that his rights to a fair trial had been violated by the Respondent State contrary to the Charter in the course of proceedings, following which he was convicted of the offence of armed robbery and sentenced to thirty (30), years imprisonment. At the end, the Applicant requested for, among others, payments for moral prejudice for himself as direct victim, which is calculated at 1,000 US dollars for each month from when he was first arrested. He was first arrested on December 22, 1996. This is a total of 19 years and two months which equates to 230,000 US dollars. He also sought for payments of 135,000 US dollars in total to his wife, mother, son, two sisters and a young brother being indirect victims of the violations of the rights in question. The Court recalls its earlier judgments and restates its position that, “to examine and assess applications for reparation of prejudices resulting from human rights violations, it takes into account the principle according to which the state found guilty of an internationally wrongful act is required to make full reparation for the damage caused to the victim”. It also notes that, moral prejudice is that which results from the suffering, anguish and changes in the living conditions for the victim and his family. The Court considers that the Applicant’s claim for compensation amounting to 230,000 US dollars is excessive. In light of these considerations and based on discretion, the Court therefore awards the Applicant an amount of 2m/-. On moral prejudice to indirect victims, the Court recalls that compensation for nonmaterial loss also applies to relatives of the victims of a human rights violation as a result of the indirect suffering and distress, thus, spouses, children and parents may claim the status of indirect victims. The Court has stated that spouses should produce marriage certificates or any equivalent proof, while children are to produce their birth certificates or any other equivalent evidence to show proof of their affiliation and parents must produce attestation of paternity or maternity or any other equivalent proof. When deliberating on the matter, the Court noted with regard to the Applicant’s wife that, her identity has not been indicated anywhere in the submissions. The Applicant stated that he lost his wife who has since remarried. Furthermore, in a letter dated N ovember 27, 2015, which was annexed to his submissions on reparations, the Applicant elaborates that he lost contact with his wife since the year 2000 when his first appeal was dismissed by the High Court of Tanzania. “In view of these circumstances, the Applicant cannot therefore maintain that his wife suffered moral prejudice as a result of the violations found and his incarceration. This claim is consequently dismissed,” the judges of the continental court declared. The Applicant provided a certified true copy of a birth certificate for his son, Emmanuel Mallya. In his submissions, however, the Applicant stated that he last saw his son in the year 2002 and does not know his whereabouts. “In these circumstances, the Applicant cannot therefore maintain that his son suffered moral prejudice as a result of the violations found and his incarceration. This claim is consequently dismissed,” the judges further ruled. With regard to the Applicant’s mother, Ester Marmo Maley, the Court noted that the Applicant has not provided a copy of his birth certificate or any other document attesting that she is his mother. The Court noted that the Applicant’s mother swore an affidavit on February 26, 2016 attesting that, following the death of her husband, Thomas Mallya in 1984, the Applicant, being their first child, became the family’s breadwinner taking care of her and his four (4), siblings. In addition to this affidavit, the Court further observed, the Applicant filed a certified true copy of his mother’s V oter Registration Card. The Respondent State did not contest the veracity of this evidence. “The Court is of the view that the certified true copy of the V oter Registration Card proves the Applicant’s mother’s identity and that the affidavit she swore is sufficient proof as regards her affiliation to the Applicant,” the judges said in the reparation judgment. Having determined that the Applicant has proven that Ester Marmo Maley is his mother, the Court was of the view that she endured emotional anguish arising from the violations endured by the Applicant and which inherently and naturally follows the incarceration of a child, as was the case with her son. The Court concluded, therefore, that such suffering was exacerbated by the fact that the Applicant’s mother was widowed and relied on his emotional support, being the eldest child of the family. It, thus, an award of 1.5m/-is a fair compensation to the Applicant’s mother for the moral prejudice suffered. Similarly to the mother, the court also held that the Applicant’s sisters and brother suffered emotional anguish and their social conditions deteriorated following his imprisonment. This, according to the judges, occasioned them moral prejudice which entitled them to compensation. “The Court therefore considers that an amount of 1m/- is fair compensation to be awarded to each of his siblings, namely, Flora Amos Mallya, Anna Elinisa Swai and John Thomas Mallya,” the Court COU RT symbol of authority. ruled.