AS the clock ticks towards the industrialisation week of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), there has been high response from exhibitors, Chief Secretary Ambassador John Kijazi remarked. The industrialisation week that starts next Monday is part of the preceding events towards the SADC Heads of State summit in Dar es Salaam. “The response from exhibitors has been higher than we had expected. And, I have directed that each exhibitor who has requested to participate be given opportunity,” Ambassador Kijazi stated when speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam on Monday. He said the exhibition will be more useful in promoting Tanzania’s products, calling on domestic manufactures to utilise the opportunity. Recently, the Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Ministry confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ that the exhibition will record the largest number of participants compared to all similar exhibitions in other SADC member countries. Director for Industries Development Department in the Ministry of Industry and Trade Leo Lyayuka said experience from other countries that had organised the events shows that they had less than 500 participants but Tanzania will register at least 1,500 exhibitors. Mr Lyayuka noted that the event was also expected to register more Tanzanian exhibitors. The SADC industrialisation week was endorsed by the community member states and had already been conducted during the past three summits. The fourth exhibition in Tanzania follows the third in Windhoek, Namibia. Main participants of the exhibition are from all 16 SADC member states. With exception of Tanzania, each of the countries will be given five pavilions. The remaining booths will then be shared among the Tanzanian exhibitors. Other invitees at the forthcoming exhibition are international institutions, development partners, stakeholders of the industrial sector, private sector, public companies and ordinary citizens. Speaking on criteria for participating, he said there is a system which has involved umbrella institutions representing different groups. Some of the institutions are Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI), Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) and Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA). “We have put this system in place to select some of their members to exhibit because it is impossible to welcome all manufacturers to participate considering that Tanzania has 34,000 large and small-scale industries,” he explained. Speaking on preparations of the event, he said, the venue has been well prepared, including booking for hotels for the participants.