IT will be the longest wait for football fans as the country’s epic battle for supremacy between Simba and Young Africans will be staged very early next year. The Premier League fixture released yesterday by Tanzania Premier League board(TPLB) shows the country’s football giants will meet for the first time on January 4th, 2020, meaning fans will have to wait for about five months to see the titanic clash. The board’s Chief Executive Officer Boniface Wambura who unveiled the fixture to reporters yesterday said the Premier League season will officially start on August 23rd after the Charity Shield match between the league champions Simba and the Federation Cup winners Azam on August 17th. According to the fixture Simba will start their title defending campaign against JKT Tanzania while their traditional rivals Yanga will be locking horns with Ruvu Shooting. Wambura said the fixture has put big weight on the teams which will be engaged in the continental level tournaments; Simba, Yanga, Azam and Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC). Meanwhile, the Premier League Board said they are in the final stages talking to two potential firms likely to sponsor next season’s Mainland Premier League. This comes after TPLB ran the elapsed 20-team league without main sponsors which was characterised with many challenges especially for teams that had no official sponsor. Breaking the good news yesterday was the board’s chairman Steven Mnguto who said when all the necessary agreements are completed, they will publicly announce them. “As of now, talks with the two possible sponsors are progressing just waiting to finalise few things with them. We can either get on board both or one of them,” Mnguto said via a radio interview. Adding, the chairman cautioned coaches of different clubs who attack referees accusing them of incompetence that they will be summoned to the ethics committee insisting on them to follow league procedures and avoid taking laws into their hands. “Of late, it has been a common thing that when coaches lose a game, they start pointing fingers at referees which is not the right thing. It is just unfortunate that referees are not allowed to attend press conferences to give their comments about a particular game hence coaches should not take this as advantage,” he said. Moreover, Mnguto lauded Polisi Tanzania FC and Namungo FC for graduating into the premier league pack next season insisting on them to stage the needed competence. Recently TPLB Chief Executive Officer Boniface Wambura said they plan to inspect all Premier League hosting venues across the country as one way to assess their ability before the start of the league. “All teams whose playing venues are in poor state should immediately begin renovations. We want to experience good matches played at perfect venues,” Wambura said.