THE prosecution is in final stages of compiling the necessary documents before taking the 7bn/-economic and money laundering trial of four prominent figures, including renowned advocate, Dr Ringo Tenga, to the Economic, Corruption and Organized Crime High Court's Division. This was said yesterday by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for prosecution, at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar ers Salaam when the case came for mention. "Under the circumstances, we request for an adjournment of two weeks, hoping that we will complete the process," Mr Simon told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba. Advocate Bryson Shayo, for the accused persons, could not object to the prosecution's request, arguing that the two weeks requested will also enable the defense to discuss with their clients on matters surrounding the trial. The magistrate adjourned the trial to August 9, 2019, for mention. Other prominent figures facing the criminal charges in the trial are former Managing Director with Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), Peter Noni, Managing Director of Six Telecoms Company Limited, Hafidh Shamte, alias Rashid Shamte, and the Company's Chief Finance Officer, Noel Chacha. They have been charged in the case jointly with Six Telecoms Company Limited on account of their positions in the company. Apart from Shamte and Chacha, the charge sheet indicates that Dr Tenga and Dr Noni are also directors of the tier one provider of integrated telecommunications Services Company. The prosecution alleges that the accused persons committed the offences on different dates between January 2014 and January 2016, within the city and region of Dar es Salaam. It is alleged that in order to obtain a financial or personal gain, the accused persons fraudulently under charged International Incoming Telecommunication Traffic at a rate below the minimum rate of 0.25 US dollars cents per minute. The prosecution alleges that within the same period, on account of their respective positions in the company, fraudulently and with intent to avoid payments, the accused persons failed to pay to Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), revenue amounting to 3,282,741.12 US dollars. It is alleged further that being officials with the company, the accused persons and the company failed to pay regulatory fees amounting to 466,010.07 US dollars to TCRA. The prosecution alleged also that by their willful act, the accused caused TCRA to suffer a pecuniary loss of 3,748,751.22 US dollars. On money laundering charges, the prosecution alleged that between January 2014 and January 2016 in the city, the accused persons acquired, used or administered money amounting to 3,282,741.12 US dollars, while knowing or ought to know that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of fraud. The prosecution alleges further that within the same time, Six Telecoms Company Limited used or administered money amounting to 3,282,741.12 US dollars, while knowing or ought to know that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of fraud and other related offences.