CHIEF Secretary John Kijazi yesterday approved the preparations for forthcoming Southern African Development Community (SADC) summit in Dar es Salaam, describing them as a great success. “I’m satisfied with the preparations and I confidently believe that we will successfully host the event... we still have time to complete few things that remain,” he said. Ambassador Kijazi said the 39th SADC meeting is a big and historic event, which will also offer opportunity for the handover of SADC chairmanship to President John Magufuli. The last time Tanzania hosted the meeting was in 2003 and for President Magufuli’s assumption of the chairmanship means several SADC meetings will be held in the country for the entire next one year. On the remaining few things to finalise, Engineer Kijazi said he will sit with permanent secretaries who are members of the organising team to complete the preparations. Ambassador Kijazi made the remarks after inspecting the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC), the summit venue. He was accompanied by his Zanzibar counterpart Dr Abdulhamid Yahya Mzee. The permanent secretaries who serve in the organising committee also joined the chief secretaries in the inspections. Ambassador Kijazi called on Tanzanians to show their kindness to the expected guests for the summit. “Usually, we Tanzanians are kind, let’s demonstrate our kindness to our guests upon their arrival in our country. They should come with peace and leave with peace to become good ambassadors for our country’s good,” he appealed. He urged the media to play crucial role in conveying the summit messages to the public over the importance of SADC conference. Several activities relating to the summit will start on August 4 through 18, including the SADC industrialisation week scheduled for August 4 through 8. It will be followed by technical committees meetings, SADC ministerial meetings and concluded by Heads of State summit on August 17 and 18. Ambassador Kijazi said the SADC activities for the entire year will be conducted in Tanzania, providing opportunities to Tanzanians. “For the next whole year, experts as well as ministers from all SADC countries will be meeting here, this is a big opportunity, economically,” he explained.