THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has described group J as tricky for national team, Taifa Stars, as the team bid to make back to back appearance in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. According to the draw conducted by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), in Cairo Egypt on Thursday evening, Taifa Stars are pooled in group J together with Tunisia, Libya and Equatorial Guinea. TFF General Secretary, Wilfred Kidao who attended the draw said through the federation’s social media platform @Tanfootball that it is a tricky group but Stars can make it to the finals. “It is one of the tricky and difficult groups in the qualifiers. African football has changed a lot recently and every team in the group has chance to qualify. If we make proper preparations, which we will certainly do, then our team will have a chance to qualify into the finals again,” said Kidao. Several other local pundits in the country have described the group as fair for Taifa Stars but were also quick to warn that the team could make it to the 2021 AFCON finals to be staged in Cameroon, only if proper preparations are put in place to make the team ready for the qualifiers. Former Stars player, Jemedari Said argued that good preparation is needed for the team to make it to their third AFCON finals. He said much as the country has good players to select and form a strong national team, the country will also count on good planning and good organisation to qualify for the finals. Simba SC outspoken Communication Officer, suggested that there should be a campaign to make sure that Stars win all their home matches, which will see them collecting nine points. Taifa Stars will face a busy schedule in the coming months, which will involve a lot of travelling. The qualifiers will kick off in October, with the first round of matches set for October 7th to 15th this year. Another round of matches in the qualifiers will be played from November 11 to 19th this year before another round come up from August 31st, 2020 to September 8th 2020. Another round of matches will be played from October 3rd to 15th 2020 and the final qualifier matches will be staged from November 9th to 17th, 2020. Taifa Stars is also involved in the African Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers strictly for home based players and they will face neighbours Kenya’s Harambee Stars on July 28 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The return leg will be staged in Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi a week later.