AFTER several days of speculations, Simba have finally unveiled left wing back, Gadiel Michael as their newly signed player for the coming season. Michael joins Simba as a free agent, after his contract with Simba’s traditional rivals Young Africans had expired. Simba released photos of the national team, Taifa Stars wing back, penning a two-year deal with the Msimbazi Reds. “We can confirm that Gadiel Michael has joined our club on a two-year deal,” the club said in a statement. The club believes with vast experience, the defender will bring much depth in the squad in the Mainland Premier League, Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) and CAF Champions League. Michael joins the list of newly local players who have joined Simba. Others are goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya and attacking midfielder, Ibrahim Ajib from Young Africans, central defender Kennedy Wilson Juma from Singida United and attacker Miraji Athumani from Lipuli FC. So far, the Reds have signed three Brazilian players – defender, Tairone Santos da Silva from Brazil’s Serie D side Atletico Cearense FC, defender Gerson Fraga Vieira from India Top Division side ATK and striker Wilker Henrique da Silva from Bragantino FC, a Serie D side in Brazil. Another newly foreign arrival is Sudanese midfielder, Sharaf Eldin Shiboub Ali Abdalrahman from Al Hilal, striker Deo Kanda from Congolese side TP Mazembe and Kenyan midfielder, Francis Kahata from Gor Mahia. Simba have also renewed contracts with several key players including first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, defenders Erasto Nyoni, Shomari Kapombe, skipper John Bocco and his assistant Mohammed Hussein. Others are Zambian midfielder Clatous Chama, Jonas Mkude, Ugandan born Rwandese striker, Meddie Kagere and Ivory Coast defender Pascal Wawa. With new arrivals, Simba has also released several players including Rwandese creative midfielder Haruna Niyonzima, who confirmed that he will not be part of the club next season. Ghanaian holding midfielder, James Kotei has also left the club and joined South Africa giants Kaizer Chiefs. It is reported that Kotei and Niyonzima were among foreign players, whom the technical bench under Belgian trainer Patrick Aussems recommended not to extend their contracts. Ghanaian defender Asante Kwasi and his country mate Nicholas Gyan, Ugandan central defender Jjuuko Murshid and Burkina Faso defender Zana Coulibaly have been released by the club. It is not clear yet, whether the Msimbazi Reds will renew contract with Uganda star striker Emmanuel Okwi.