A GERMAN multinational engineering and technology company, Bosch Group is eyeing to invest in home gas heater manufacturing and construction of automobile inspection centres in Tanzania. The cost-efficient gas heaters can be used for domestic use in bathrooms and kitchen, in hospitals, hotels and real estate complexes. The plant is expected to be a hub that will serve all East Africa countries. Bosch Group, however, did not disclose the cost of setting up the assembling plant in Tanzania but said plans were underway to invest in the area. Bosch Africa President, Dr Markus Thill said their company is looking for local partners to implement their plans, which includes the transfer of knowledge through working with Vocational Training Centres for training local population on technical skills of using the technologies they bring. Dr Thill said they are aiming to invest in costefficient gas-using-heaters for real estate developers, fleet efficiency systems for transporters, mining technologies, railways communications and safety solutions. He said as a long-term plan, they will consider investing in manufacturing or assembling a plant for the automobile. According to their research, the East Africa region has the market for between 600,000 and 1,000,000 brand new cars. The company is also expected to start with the franchising of 50 state-of-the-art automobile repair centres. The firm has held a crucial meeting with the Minister for Investment Angela Kairuki and Tanzania Investment Centre’s (TIC). Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday during a workshop to introduce Bosch Group and opportunities for them to showcase, Association of Tanzania Oil and Gas Services providers (ATOGS), Co-founder, Mr Abdulsamad Abdulrahim said after several meetings Bosch group is finally here to invest and set up in Tanzania. Mr Abdulrahim said the company was not new in the country as they already won a tender to install security cameras and fire alarm system at Terminal 3 of the Julius Nyerere International Airport. Bosch Company is a multinational engineering and electronics company whose core operating areas are spread across four business sectors; mobility solutions, consumer goods including household appliances and power tools, industrial technology and building technology. It has invested in 13 countries in Africa and Tanzania is their latest destination. Bosch has a presence in South Africa, Angola, Mozambique, Egypt, Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya among others.