POLICE in Dar es Salaam are holding a Tanzania’s Mining Commission worker on suspicion of stealing 6.244 kilogramme of gold worth 507.3mn/- that was stored at the offices of the Tanzania Minerals Audit Agency (TMAA) in Dar es Salaam. In his address to the press in the city, Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander, Mr Lazaro Mambosasa said the suspect, Donald Njonjo (30), who is the Manager of the Commission’s Laboratory, was arrested recently after police investigations at their offices. He said that on June 29th, the Dar es Salaam Regional Minerals Officer at TMAA, Mr Ally Sadick (40) reported to the Central Police Station that he had discovered that some of the gold they had confiscated was missing from their office. “After the tip, police launched quick intensive investigations at the office, where preliminary investigation(s) discovered that Njonjo was responsible, because he had been stealing since December 2018,” Commander Mambosasa explained. During interrogations, the suspect confessed that he had been stealing the minerals and selling them to some jewelers in the City and also filling back the empty shelves with fake ones of 6.001 kilogrammes to hoodwink the officers manning the store. Commander Mambosasa said the minerals were seized in 2017 at the Zanzibar Port in Isles, where they were illegally smuggled in before the government ordering that they be kept at the offices. Meanwhile, Police in Dar es Salaam have arrested seven people suspected to be bandits armed with a pistol and nine rounds of ammunition in separate areas in the city. The suspects identified as Said Salum (27), Amos Kefas (30), Said Ahmad, Mohamed Musa (31), Mboke Samwel and two others, were suspected to have been involved in various theft of auto rickshaws at Ukonga areas in the Ilala Municipality. “On July 9th this year, the suspects broke three separate shops and stole different items including cash money and two auto rickshaws with registration numbers MC 312 CFB and MC 540 CED both are TVS brand,” he said. The suspects were arrested on July 9th in the morning at Hondogo Gogoni Kiluvya in Ubungo District, where preliminary investigation(s) established that they had conniving in several crime scenes using a black coloured Toyota Harrier make with registration number T 666 DJG. Commander Mambosasa added that on July 4th this year, one of the suspects, Michael Nina alias Stellu (27) a resident of Tangibovu area was arrested for allegedly being in possession of a pistol- FATIN13-Turkey make with registration number T.0622010J00535 and nine rounds of ammunition.