THE Court of Appeal has allowed the Barclays Bank Tanzania Limited to challenge the dismissal of its commercial case for repayment of over 10bn/-loan facility advanced to the Tanzania Pharmaceutical Industries Limited and three other respondents. Justice Winfrida Korosso ruled in favour of the Bank after granting an application for extension of time within which to move the Court to revise the decision of the High Court’s Commercial Division dated June 2, 2014, where the institution’s suit was dismissed upon failure to file witness statements and costs. During the hearing of the application. The Bank had alleged that there was illegality in the ruling of the Commercial Court necessitating the appeals Court to examine and give proper directions. In the interest of justice, and that the delay in filling the application was not inordinate, nugatory or due, to negligence. Advocates for the Bank, Mpaya Kamala and Dilip Kesaria, had forcefully submitted on need for the Court of Appeal to determine. Whether the trial Judge misdirected himself in dismissing the suit as he did rather than granting an order for extension of time to enable their client to file her witness statements. They had contended also that in the absence of any express provision in the Commercial Court Procedure Rules. Spelling out clearly the consequence of failure by a party to file the statements within time, then it is opportune that the Court be invited to explore the situation and determine accordingly. In her decision, the justice found as good cause the issues the applicant Bank intended to pursue further possible direction by the Court to address perceived errors that led to the impugned ruling of the trial Court. “I find that the ground on illegality of the decision is a good cause to warrant grant of extension of time sought in the present application. The respective application for revision must be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of this Order,” she ruled. Apart from the company, other respondents in the Bank’s application were former Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), Chairman, Dar es Salaam Region, Mr Ramadhani Madabida, Ms Zarina Madabida and businessman Salum Shamte. In the commercial suit, the Bank had stated that the company, as principal borrower failed to repay its indebtedness under the facilities by their due dates or at all. As of N ovember 8, 2012, outstanding amounts due and owing by the company stood at US dollars 4,551,492.86 for the term loan. The outstanding letter of credit was US dollars 74,294.86 and unauthorized overdraft of 10,501,993/-. The document further indicates that interest accrued up to N ovember 8, 2012 was US dollars 307,825.49 and the outstanding default interest US dollars 45,631.254. On diverse dates between 2002 and 2008, the bank allegedly availed credit facilities to the company for different amounts in the form of overdrafts, performance bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees and indemnities and term loans. Subsequently, the plaint of the suit states, in the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the facilities were varied on, or amended as agreed between the parties. The bank alleges that Tanzania Pharmaceutical Industries Limited was liable for payment of the amount as principal borrower while other three respondents are jointly and severely answerable to Barclays bank with the company pursuant to their obligations under their respective personal guarantees. In their written statements of defence, the respondents denied the claims. As it turned out, the suit did not go through trial as the High Court dismissed the case with costs on June 2, 2014 on the ground that the appellant failed to prosecute its case, when it came up for hearing on May 14, 2014. The court took the view that the appellant’s failure to comply with Rules 48 and 49 of the High Court (Commercial Division), Procedure Rules, 2012 to file witness statements as evidence in chief in support of its claims within seven days of completion of mediation amounted to want of prosecution