THERE’S a little eatery where I love to take light lunch and, yes, you guessed right: a beer to wash it down. Until recently, I had to suffer some episodes of ‘sea-sickness’ occasioned by murky leftovers floating alongside plastic bags, all of which were swept ashore from the fish market at Magogoni across the Ferry. Now it’s all clean and, as of a sudden, all placid too; to which we should all toast to a well-timed ban by Hon. January Makamba, the illustrious Minister of State on whose shoulders rests the environment brief. For this spot could one of these provide home to a truly world class resort, where locals could take guests and family for a weekend or evening treat. Apart from a few beach investments such as Kipepeo where locals are virtually locked out merely because their lean pockets cannot afford even a modest soft drink, the southern Coast of Dar es Salaam still cries out for better creativity; for surely the hoi poloi of this country would also love to rub shoulders with the rich and famous who –so we’re told – often hop into the place by helicopter. Straight from the airport, some rumours whisper. But I digress. I was talking about plastics and how the world’s rich man’s club, aka G20, took its participants all the way to Osaka, Japan, only to offer a few crumbs in return for all the trash they feed into the oceans, lakes and other freshwater carriageways. The Group of 20 major economies is said to have agreed on ‘a deal’ to reduce marine pollution at a meeting of their environment ministers on Sunday in Karuizawa, Japan, on June 30. The host nation was also quick to “propose a workable framework” on how to deal with ocean trash in emerging and less developed countries. “I am glad that we, including emerging countries and developing countries, were able to form a broad international framework,” Yoshiaki Harada, Japan’s environment minister, is quoted to have told a news conference. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he wanted his country to be a leader in reducing marine plastic waste by using biodegradable material and other technological innovations. Images of plastic debrisstrewn beaches and stomachs of dead fish full of plastic materials have sparked global outrage, with environmental activists calling for stricter action to deal with the environmental hazard. Under the agreed framework, G20 member states are tasked with promoting a comprehensive approach to prevent and reduce plastic waste discharge to the oceans and share their best practices with other nations. Japan plans to host a follow- up meeting to review the efforts at the G20 Resource Efficiency Dialogue this autumn. Fine words Three weeks before on World Environment Day (June 5), American citizens had asked themselves a searching question: Will you be a part of this solution? On that day, campaigners and businesses united to launch what was billed as “one of the largest plastic pollution visual surveys ever conducted.” “On June 5, coincided with World Environment Day, A Plastic Planet urges you to join the challenge. “It’s simple,” they argued, then proceeded to suggest a few practical steps forward, inter alia: . Take a photo of anything you would like to see go plastic free. Post the photo to your social media channels and use the hashtag #One- PlasticFreeDay; . Include where you are posting from and what the item or place is. Sounds like child’s play, but EcoWatch teamed up via Facebook live on that Monday to amplify the voice of the exciting One Plastic Free Day in which people were called to unite locally and globally to take part in a landmark global visual survey on plastic. In Dar and at the Ferry in particular, those black wobbly objects that often came washing ashore – and spoiling everyone’s appetite – may be gone for now. But the city’s ocean waters are home to an estimated 350,000 tonnes of trash, about half (40%) of which is, or was lately, washed from domestic and industrial sources. So the fish and other aquatic life forms are still at great risk from what we humans throw away after we’re done eating, or creating what we subsequently eat. We’re a wasteful lot, all the time expecting our planetary neighbours in the depths of the surrounding sea to enjoy the poisonous substances we discard at will. Like the friends of the earth who rallied to launch an ‘agreed framework’ at the just-concluded G20 summit, we are, by extension, also remain tasked with promoting a comprehensive approach to prevent and reduce plastic waste discharge to the oceans and share best practices from those nations. Japan plans to host a follow- up meeting to review the efforts at the G20 Resource Efficiency Dialogue this autumn. We in the poor Third World shouldn’t wait for an invitation –at least not from the likes of Don Trumps -- but should instead go knocking on their doors for our share of the spoils. We too are worthy citizens of this planet … plastic free, of course. shanimpinga@gmail.com 0712122128