TANZANIA Agriculture Research Institute (TARI) Naliendele has developed over 50 cashew nut varieties which can be grown all over the country. The varieties which have been released and officially registered make Tanzania the only country in Africa which has developed a large number of cashew varieties. TARI Naliendele Acting Centre Director Dr Fortunus Kapinga told the ‘Daily News’ at the ongoing 43 Dar es Salam International Trade Fair yesterday that the improved cashew nut varieties have enabled famers to increase efficiency in terms of amount of raw cashew nuts produced and the produce obtained per unit area. Dr Kapinga added that through the use of improved cashew nut varieties, farmers were also producing quality nuts acceptable in international standards. He also said that through various researches conducted by the centre, they have come up with good varieties with ability to tolerate or resist diseases and pests. Dr Kapinag, who doubled as National Coordinator of the Cashew Research Programme (CRP), explained that in the past, people used to think that cashew nuts could be grown only along coast regions - Mtwara, Lindi, Tanga, Coast and part of Ruvuma in Tunduru District. He said what determines the areas in which cashew nuts could be grown was not geographical or political boundaries but climatic conditions or ecological requirements. These include defined rainy season ( wet and dry ), good soil types, and temperature of about 20 to 30 degree Celsius during flouring and nut setting. “These ecological requirements are not only found in the five regions; you can find the same conditions in other regions in which the crop can be grown using the 54 varieties we have developed,” Dr Kapinga noted. He said currently there were almost 20 regions in the country which grow cashew nuts using the seedling varieties distributed by the research institute. Dr Kapinga said that besides the five regions, others that grow the cash crop include Morogoro, Dodoma, Singida, Tabora, Kigoma, Shinyanga, Katavi, Rukwa, Mbeya , Songwe, Iringa, Kilimanjaro and Mwanza. He said that for a farmer to produce efficiently, one must use improved seedlings which can produce at least 20 kilogrammes per cashew tree compared to 10 kilogrammes obtained from a traditional cashew tree.