TIGO Tanzania has for the fourth year in a row now become the main communications sponsor for the Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF), organized by Tanzania Trade Development Authority (Tantrade). Tigo’s Corporate Communications Manager, Woinde Shisael, said over the weekend in Dar es Salaam that Tigo has been supporting DITF for four consecutive years under the communication category. “The arrangement being part of Tigo’s commitment to support the government efforts to enhance trade and the growth of local industries for the economic prosperity of the country,” she said. On her part, the Head of Public Affairs and Communications for Tantrade, Theresa Chilambo, commended Tigo for the sponsorship. Chilambo said that Tan- Trade is lucky to have such a trusted partner in the communication sector, and that they are eagerly looking forward to Tigo’s participation in this year’s Saba Saba trade fair. In addition to this, Tigo has also partnered with six device manufacturers to offer exclusive data and smartphone promotions to thousands of its customers who will be attending the exuberant trade fair at the Mwalimu Nyerere Trade Fair Grounds in Dar es Salaam. “As we enter yet another exciting season of Saba Saba, we have prepared very attractive data and smartphone offers for our customers. We have partnered with Infinix, iTel, Nokia, Samsung, TECNO Mobile and KaiOS, to offer our customers not only diversified options but the best data and smartphone solutions for their needs,” said Shisael. “Additionally, Tigo will be hosting a special promotion for first time Tigo Pesa users. As well as customers who will undergo the Biometric SIM registration exercise,” added Shisael. “We are happy to announce that new Tigo Pesa users who will sign up for the service during Saba Saba will have the freedom to send money (Tigo to Tigo) without any deductions for a period of three months. Also, every customer who will undergo the Biometric SIM registration will be awarded 100 free minutes from us,” Shisael explained.