THE Fair and Competition Commission (FCC) has impounded more than 140 containers with counterfeit goods during its regular inspection carried out in the last fiscal year that ended in June. Speaking at the ongoing Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair yesterday, FCC Law Enforcement Director, Dr Deo Nangela, said FCC had inspected 3,312 containers out of which 143 were found with counterfeit goods. He said to control fake goods FCC continued carrying out routine and impromptu inspections at entry points in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Mwanza, Arusha and Mbeya regions. Dr Nangela added that FCC had inspected Sirari, Namanga, Horohoro, Holili, Kasumulo and Tarakea borders. He, however, noted that apart from carrying out inspections, FCC continued providing education to traders in the country. “In 2018/19, FCC conducted training to different stakeholders, including regional and district criminal investigation officers and industry stakeholders,” he said. He noted that the training programme aimed at raising awareness about the rights and duties of consumers and traders to ensure people stopped importing, producing or selling counterfeit goods. Dr Nangele, however, called upon the business community to cooperate with FCC and other institutions under the Ministry of Industry and Trade to ensure goods entering the market were of good quality. He said brand owners and consumers should continue cooperating with traders in the market to ensure they got feedback on their products and report to FCC in case of any fake product so that it could be removed from the market. On consumer protection, he said FCC had continued receiving and working on complaints about poor quality products. “We have also continued reviewing and registering consumers’ contracts to improve them and increase accountability,” he said. Dr Nangela added that FCC had received 46 consumers’ contracts for 2018/19 of which 15 of them had already been registered, while others were at different stages. He also said FCC had continued providing education in primary schools through consumer protection clubs in five schools in Dodoma and five in Morogoro regions respectively. On competition cases, he said in the last fiscal year, FCC worked on more than 60 cases in various sectors, including natural gas, energy, oil, retail and wholesale products as well as tobacco and iron.