THE Ministry of Minerals will continue to revoke all mining survey licences which are dormant and not renewed, and hand them over to small scale miners. That was said by the Deputy Minister of Minerals, Stanslaus Nyongo at a three day conference themed ‘Requirements and Development of Geita Region’ organized by NMB in Geita Municipality, yesterday while winding it up. Mr Nyongo further said: “The move is aimed at raising economic livelihoods of the small scale miners surrounding the areas to expand their businesses and employ more youth coming out of schools and in turn raise the economy of the country.” The deputy minister said that the government was focused on setting for them areas where they would conduct their mining activities without disturbances, besides ensuring that their economies are raised and they pay taxes and other revenues to the State. “As the ministry, we will not sit aside and watch people assigned areas to survey for mineral exploration sitting relaxed without doing anything, but we will transfer them to small scale miners to develop and raise their economies,” Mr Nyongo pointed out. Thanking the NMB bank for organizing the workshop, the deputy minister noted that the idea was assisting the government to free artisans from poverty, saying: “Such conferences educate the youth to address poverty in their midst. I believe the conference that has stretched for three days now must have enlightened the people on what is expected from them to access loans for their own development,” he pointed out. Commenting, Geita Regional Commissioner (RC), Robert Gabriel said the area was still facing various challenges in mining, including scarce areas for the artisans; That it was necessary for the government to send them mining professionals to study and set aside for them, areas for mining activities. On his side, NMB bank Head of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises & Savings and Credit, Filbert Mponzi said realizing the gaps in the region, they deemed it necessary to educate them on what to do as alternatives for earning a livelihood. “W e believe that if they heed our pieces of advice and education, we will give them loans; we were being discouraged by the way they kept on migrating,” he added. He said that as a bank, they have been facing some challenges facing the miners to acquire loans and that made them to organize the workshop in order to enlighten them. Some of the small scale miners who participating in the workshop thanked the bank for being ready to advance them loans that would assist them in their mining activities