WATER Users Associations (WUAs), will soon be subjected to serious scrutiny as the government tightens nuts on embezzlement of resources in the ministry of water. Water Deputy Minister, Jumaa Aweso said here yesterday that the ministry intends to scrutinise all WUAs countrywide to uncover members siphoning money that are collected from water users through their based associations. The move comes as a series of transformational measures in the ministry to cleanse it from bad records of financial mismanagement and ineffective implementation of water projects. But, contrary to the trend within other WUAs, elsewhere in the country, the deputy minister was impressed on noting that one of organs in Bukombe district known as ‘Jumuiya ya Watumia Maji Uyovu (JUWAMU), was recording an impressive performance. “I am told this association is operating professionally with good track of financial management to the point of having about 145m/-in the bank account. What is this organ doing that others cannot do,” queried the deputy minister. He could not go into details on how and when exactly the crackdown on water associations will take place but he was categorically certain it was underway, calling for thousands of WUAs countrywide to get ready. According to JUWAMU Chairman Kassim Kasabha, the association has collects an average of about 1m/-monthly and has kept the saving of 145m/-after spending 102m/- to rehabilitate basic water infrastructure in the past five years. It was due to that brilliant performance that his committee was this year re-elected unopposed for another term of five years in office with the deputy minister promising to prepare a special certificate for them as well as inviting them to visit the parliament in Dodoma. Earlier, Mr Aweso received a report on the availability of water in Bukombe district that showed the utility was available by only 27percent while nine projects in different stages of implementation could increase the availability to 40 percent when fully commissioned. The report vividly irked the deputy minister who tasked Geita Urban Water and Sanitation Authority (GEUWASA), and the district based Rural Water and Sanitation Authority (RUWASA), to immediately check the trend and take action. Another disappointment emerged as the District Water Engineer, Aaron Swai informed the deputy minister that one project worth over 100m/-had stalled simply because a 15m/-water pumping machine was stolen had not been replaced for the last five years. Bukombe District Commissioner (DC), Said Mkumba said in his report that there were numerous problems in many of the water projects in the district due to laziness and business as usual working style. “This is just a tip of the iceberg. There are many issues which must be addressed immediately for the water situation to improve here and it is good that you have come,” he said