THE sacking of the Taifa Stars Head Coach Emanuel Amunike has become bouncy as the news of firing coaches whose teams faired badly in the Africa Cup of Nations went viral continental wide. Various social media outlets announced yesterday that Tanzania football Federation (TFF) had fired Coach Amunike after Stars shambolic display in the ongoing AFCON finals, but the football governing body soon rubbished it saying it has not said anything on the coach’s fate. TFF Information officer Clifford Ndimbo told The ‘Daily News’ yesterday that nothing has been said on the coach nor the national team. However Ndimbo said everything about the team and its head of the technical bench will be made public tomorrow (Tuesday). “TFF has not stated anything about the team, you have to wait till Tuesday when TFF will announce it officially,” said Ndimbo. Earlier on Saturday, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe told reporters at Protea Court Yard that he has confidence in coach Amunike, saying the Nigerian legend will deliver if given time. Mwakyembe added that Amunike has outlined his strategies which if well implemented, Tanzanian football will advance further. “I am happy that we have met today (Saturday) to get a way forward for our national team. We still have many competitions coming ahead hence this is the right time start correcting ourselves so that when another time come for us, we should be ready to shine,” Mwakyembe said. He added that Uganda is a good example, bearing in mind that in 2015, they failed to do well in AFCON games, but when they returned home, they succeeded to fill all loopholes and now you can see their potential in international matches. Amunike, whose contractual agreement with TFF was to take the team to 2019 AFCON in Egypt, succeeded in doing it despite losing all the three matches in the group stages. Stars lost 2-0 to Senegal in their opening match before going down 3-2 to neighbours Kenya despite showcasing a remarkable performance on the day. Again, the home team succumbed to 3-0 loss to Algeria. However, in his ten matches at the helm of Stars, Amunike won two games, drew two matches and lost six encounters. Meanwhile, Egypt coach Javier Aguirre became the first casualty of the Africa Cup of Nations as he was sacked just hours after the hosts were bundled out of the tournament by South Africa in the round of 16. Hosts Egypt lost 1-0 to an 85th minute goal from Thembinkosi Lorch on Saturday at the end of a lacklustre display in which their talisman Mohamed Salah looked out of sorts and they produced few goalscoring chances. Egypt Football Association president Hany Abo Rida announced the firing of the Mexican coach, and his own resignation, less than three hours after the game as a stunned host nation digested the defeat.