THE prosecution and defence yesterday locked horns on who has the duty to prepare facilities to show a video recording showing violence that led to, among others, the killing of National Institute of Transport (NIT) Student, Akwilina Akwiline Baftaa. While the prosecution led by Principal State Attorneys Paul Kadushi, Faraja Nchimbi and Naomi Mango as well as Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon maintained that the court had such duty, Defence advocate Peter Kibatala submitted to the contrary, throwing the ball to the prosecution. Following competing submissions presented by the parties at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam in the sedition trial of nine senior officials with Chadema, Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba said that he will deliver the ruling on the matter on August 5, 2019. It all started when the trial attorneys moved the court to enable the video CD taken at Mkwajuni area in Kinondoni District displayed having been produced in evidence by a police officer, Corporal Charles, when giving evidence as the sixth prosecution witness. The prosecution told the court that it was required of the law and other decided cases that any documentary exhibit must be read to the court by the witness after being tendered and having been admitted in evidence. According to the trial attorneys, had the document in question been in written form, they would have asked the witness to just read it as per the law requirement. However, they submitted, the CD was electronic evidence, which needed some medium tools to have the pictures therein displayed. However, the defence counsel strongly opposed the line of argument presented by the prosecution, submitting forcefully that it was the duty of the prosecution and not of the court to prepare enabling environment for the video recording to be shown. The advocate submitted that the prosecution would have applied at the Kisutu Training and Information Resource Centre where such facilities are installed to have the session conducted or by themselves prepare by bringing connecting wires and other necessary gadgets for the event to take place. In rebuttal, the prosecution contended that the points given by the defence were baseless and could not be considered as objections based on pure points of law as required. They submitted that what the advocate had presented in court were his personal opinions, which should be disregarded. Accused persons in the trial are Chadema National Chairman Freeman Mbowe, the party’s Secretary General Vicent Mashinji, John Mnyika, the Deputy Secretary General (Mainland), Salum Mwalimu, who is the Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar), and Peter Msigwa, Member of Parliament (MP) for Iringa Urban. The rest are Ester Matiko, the MP for Tarime Urban, Halima Mdee, the MP for Kawe, John Heche, the MP for Tarime Rural, and Ester Bulaya, the MP for Bunda Urban. They are charged with 11 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, unlawful assembly, rioting after proclamation, and inciting commission of offences, raising discontent and ill-will for unlawful purposes and sedition allegedly committed between February 1 and 16, 2018 in the city. The prosecution alleges that on February 16, 2018 along Kawawa Road at Mkwajuni area, being assembled with intent to carry out a common purpose, jointly and together, all accused persons conducted themselves in such a manner as to cause a fear of breach of peace.