PUBLIC Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF) has paid 216bn/- as gratuity and monthly pensions between June 1 and July 24, this year. However, maternity pension beneficiaries who had lodged their applications before August 1, 2018 when the four pension funds merged, have started receiving payments as per their previous funds’ formula, PSSSF Chief Manager, Public Relations Eunice Chiume said here yesterday. Speaking to reporters, Ms Chiume said of the 216bn/- payment in one month, 122.9bn/- was gratuity to 2,650 retirees and 92.7bn/-monthly benefits for the 126,043 pensioners. Ms Chiume stated that the fund was committed to effect payment in due time to its members, calling on all beneficiaries to have their details to avoid unnecessary delays. PSSSF, which came into effect in August 1, last year after the merging of four pension funds into PSSSF to serve public servants.Between August last year and February this year, PSSSF paid over 880bn/- to all pensioners with outstanding payment. It had also by February this year, remitted an additional 119bn/- to pensioners in compensation of the difference following the government decision to retain the benefits formula. Ms Chiume told reporters that the fund paid 108 out of the pending payments for 227 pensioners who have been cleared by their employers. “These 227 were members whose payments were suspended by their employers as they had issues of fake academic credentials, criminal cases, disciplinary matters and the remaining 119 are expected to be cleared by September, this year,” explained Ms Chiume. On the maternity benefits, Ms Chiume said they were suspended for almost a year since the funds were merged to settle issues out before making decision. The Chief Manager said after settling the matters, the fund decided that those who had applied for benefits will be paid according to their previous social security funds formula. “Members of the fund who qualify for the benefits should remain patient as the rules and regulations have been tabled for approval. The government is working on evaluation on maternity benefits and when it is done, they will be informed,” she added.