NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars Assistant Coach Hemed Morocco said the experience gained in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals will be used to excel in CAF African Nations Championship (CHAN) competition. Stars will open their CHAN campaign by taking on neighbors Kenya at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on July 28th. The game is likely to rekindle the AFCON clash between the two teams as the hosts will be keen to revenge the previous 3-2 defeat they lately suffered in Egypt. Speaking recently in Dar es Salaam, coach Morocco said they are lucky because most players who travelled to Egypt play in the domestic league as such, the exposure gained during their AFCON matches will highly boost them to do well. “It is good that we are facing the opponent we met in Egypt (Kenya) hence if we will be able to get good results from them, we will have a great chance to make it into the CHAN finals,” he said. Additionally, Emmanuel Amunike’s right hand man revealed that there is a possibility to include some of the potential players who failed to make it to Egypt so as to come up with a good chemistry with their colleagues, who made the tour. Furthermore, Morocco said competition in the Mainland Premier League needs to be strengthened as one way to generate ripe players who can withstand the needs of international matches. “We need to brush up our league and do away with the mentality of seeing few teams as the league dominants. If we can upgrade our league, definitely, we will be able to export more players outside the country to play professional football,” he said. Asked whether he will return to continue his coaching roles at Singida United ahead of the next season, Morocco said so far, he has no other team apart from Taifa Stars. The draw for the qualifiers of the CHAN Ethiopia 2020 was held on January 30th this year at the CAF Headquarters in Cairo, Egypt on the sidelines of the Organising Committee of the competition. Forty-seven (47) teams are engaged in the battle for 15 places to join hosts Ethiopia for the final tournament of the sixth edition of the tournament designed exclusively for footballers playing in their domestic leagues. The draw was the highlight of the meeting of the 25-member committee, which saw the format and procedure approved. The format of the competition remains unchanged and will be played on a zonal basis to determine the finalists for Ethiopia.