THE government is working on ensuring that the new system of registering and licensing businesses and companies online is benefiting entrepreneurs and business persons as well as improving the country’s economy. Speaking during an awareness training on Online Business Registration and Licensing in Mkuranga District, Coast Region on Tuesday, Finance and Administration Manager for Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA), Mr Bakari Mteto said that the Agency has already conducted such trainings in other regions. “As from December last year, we have succeeded on reaching out to business persons and entrepreneurs of different kinds with these trainings in the Lake Zone, Northern Zone, Eastern Zone, Southern Highlands, South regions and West Zone, and now we are here in the Coast region,” he noted. Expounding further, he said that the system which aims at having correct information of business persons and company owners and restrict fake business has proved to be more efficient, cost less money and is time saving. “Under the old system, an individual had to travel from the remotest part of the country to our offices in Dar es Salaam to have his business registered or to have a license. Now all these complications have been resolved and everything is completed online,” he added. He pointed out that a total of 8,065 companies, 16,205 business names, 4,300 business signs, 182 industries’ licenses and 29 business patents have been registered and licensed under the new system as from February last year. However, he mentioned that the exercise is facing some challenges, which includes unreliable network system, and some individuals who need their business to be registered do not have identity cards from National Identification Development Authority (NIDA), which is one of the requirements for qualification, saying that some people just don’t like the new system and prefer the old one for their own reasons. One of the participants in the training, Dr Judicate Ndossi said during an interview that the new system which is done online has a number of benefits, one being that it helps individuals protect their patents from those who use them illegally. A total of 200 participants from across the district attended the training which will be conducted in all districts in the region.