NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars will know their opponents in race for FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 qualifiers on Monday. It has been announced that the Confederation of African Football (CAF), will on Monday conduct the draw of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 qualifiers. The draw will be held at the CAF Headquarters in Cairo, Egypt and all the 54 CAF member nations will be considered in the draw (unless otherwise). Africa will be represented by five countries for the tournament that will have 32 finalists. The World Cup in Qatar will take place between November 21st to December 18th 2022. Taifa Stars has never qualified and the team will be seeking for their first ever FIFA World Cup appearance for the biggest sporting event in the entire world. According CAF, qualification format will involve all the 54 countries under continental football governing body, beginning with the preliminary round for the countries ranked between 27th to 54th. The second round will see the top 26 ranked CAF teams joined by the 14 winners from the first round. These teams will be drawn into ten groups of four teams each. Bye to Round 2: The best footballing top 26 African countries will not play in the preliminary round. These include; Newly crowned African champions Algeria, runners up Senegal, Cameroon, Tunisia, Morocco, DR Congo, Nigeria, Ghana, Egypt, Burkina Faso, Mali, Ivory Coast, Guinea, South Africa, Uganda, Cape Verde, Zambia, Benin, Gabon, Congo, Mauritania, Niger, Kenya, Madagascar, Niger, Zimbabwe and Libya. Round two will then involve the rest of the African teams that will have qualified from the preliminaries where groups A to J of five teams each will be formulated. The leaders of each group will qualify for the final round for five home-and-away ties. The winners of each tie will advance to the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. Meanwhile, ahead of tomorrow’s African Nations Championship (CHAN), qualifiers clash against Kenya Harambee Stars, Interim Taifa Stars coach, Etienne Ndayiragije has picked striker, John Bocco as the team’s skipper. He will be assisted by veteran goalkeeper, Juma Kaseja as well as experienced defenders Kelvin Yondani and Erasto Nyoni. Taifa Stars go head to head against Harambee Stars at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam tomorrow for the first leg battle of CHAN 2020 qualifiers, whose finals will be played in Ethiopia. The return match will be hosted at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya a week later, with the overall winner in both legs cruising into the next round of the tournament designed for domestic based players. Exactly a month after facing off at the just ended 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals in Egypt, Tanzania and Kenya will meet again, this time in the qualifiers for CHAN. The familiar foes will rekindle their rivalry with a place at the final round of the Central-East Zone qualifiers for the competition designed exclusively for footballers playing their country of birth. Taifa Stars lost 3-2 to Harambee Stars during the AFCON in Cairo after jumping into the lead twice but failed to hold on to their advantage, only to allow Kenya to snatch a late win. Harambee Stars were due to arrive in the country late yesterday ready for the match, whose entrance fee has been pegged from 3,000/-for popular seats and 5,000/-for VIP B and C.