FOREIGN investors have been advised to share their skills and knowledge in using modern technology with local investors and enable them use the platform of technological advancement to modernize and improve the country’s investment sector. The Managing Director of Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF), Ms Sabra Issa Machano issued the advice in Dar es Salaam over the weekend during the technical seminar organized by LG Electronics Africa which went together with the launching of the LG’s Multi V 5 Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF). Ms Machano said that foreign investors have invested in using modern advanced technology in their investment activities. She advised local investors to take an opportunity of learning on how they can use the fast technological transformation in boosting the country’s economic development through modern system of investment. “For instance these LG Electronics have invested a lot in the market of modern electronic items that using modern technology. My advice to local investors is to learn from these foreigners on how they use modern technology in investment sector, the move will even support the country in industrialization drive,” she said. She said ZSSF participates in supporting the country’s investment sector by providing loans with affordable terms and conditions to the groups of entrepreneurs who aims to establish small industries. At the same occasion the Air Solution Product Manager of LG Electronics East Africa Operation, Mr Kyungrin An, said the MULTI V 5 is equipped with innovative Dual Sensing control that monitors temperature and humidity levels to efficiently manage cooling and heating. “As our fifth generation VRF system, it implements a range of innovative, it implements a range of innovative technologies to offer customers, unparalleled energy efficiency and comfort,” he said. He further added that, making advanced climate control technology even more accessible, the industry leading solution provides excellent operational savings and greater comfort to LG’s customers globally.