TANZANIA and Kenya from time immemorial have and will not only be neighbours, but have maintained their friendship, not like a friend who can be bought and may also be bought from you in the sense that these are blood brothers. Real friends are those who, when you’ve made a fool of yourself, don’t feel that you’ve done a permanent job. These are two States which share many aspects in life ranging from wild animals like the Serengeti wildebeest, Africa’s great migration, which happens every year where by large numbers of wildebeests (over 2 million) and other animals like the grant’s gazelles, impalas, zebras (over 200,000), elands and Thomson’s gazelles migrate from the Serengeti plains in Tanzania to the Masai Mara in Kenya. Along their borders are people who share same cultures, languages and lifestyles and intermarry and live harmoniously as one people, but it is only that the Colonialists decided to separate them into different States without taking into considerations of their blood relations, culture and economic lives. The history may be long, but it is hats off to their Presidents (Dr John Magufuli of Tanzania and Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya) to have seen the essence of working together to bring peace and harmony in the areas so that their nationals find a good forum to do business and eke out a living. They have seen the essence of working together to stimulate further development in the region because each party depends on one another. Their coming together will empower them to control and tame outbreak of infectious diseases like hemorrhagic Ebola, Marburg, Crimean Kongo and Rift Valley fevers, Cholera, Polio, Rabies and Plague among others, which have no boundaries, but their hosts (human beings) have. These diseases do not only affect the lives and livelihood of the people in the areas, but also have a negative impact on their sources of income ranging from agriculture, trade, to tourism. Think of criminals who commit clandestine crimes and their networks, which honour no boundaries. These anti-development elements must be pursued to wherever they are and this requires cooperation of States to flash them wherever they would run to. With that background, the Heads of State of Tanzania and Kenya agreeing meeting in Chato District, Geita Region would ensure that the countries build strong economic relationship to benefit their nationals. Speaking to Chato residents, the two Heads of State asked their nationals to ignore hate and reckless speeches made by some politicians, who may be seeking political mileage without considering the consequences. President Magufuli said they had agreed that Kenyan investors, who owned many companies in Tanzania, could establish processing plants in the country instead of transporting raw materials to Kenya. The two leaders had also agreed Kenya to purchase gas from Tanzania instead of importing it from abroad. Accordingly, ministers from the two countries have been instructed to meet immediately to draw a roadmap on how Kenya will start purchasing gas from Tanzania. On Lake Victoria, President Magufuli said they had agreed to ensure Kenyan, Tanzanian and Ugandan vessels operate without any problem. He said the vessels from the two countries must operate for the purpose of boosting businesses and building the economy.