LEADERS of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM), particularly Members of Parliament (MPs), should emulate the Father of the Nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere as they go about their daily duties. The appeal was made recently in Same District, Kilimanjaro Region, by CCM Secretary General Dr. Bashiru Ally, while summing up his four-day official visit in the region. “Mwalimu had a tendency of meeting people directly in different ways, including public rallies to follow and get their views and their challenges; it was through this way that he was able to identify challenges facing the public, which even their representatives including MPs did not know. “Mwalimu used to say that bringing good and developments to Wananchi was not enough; he believed that visiting and meeting them in their respective Constituencies to address their challenges was equally important,” he added. Dr Bashiru noted that he felt to share the remark, because he and his colleagues at the CCM headquarters frequently get complaints from the public that some of the lawmakers, are not seen in their respective constituencies, despite the good work the government was doing in their midst to develop the nation. “Most of the complaints we get are those against some MPs that they are not seen in their respective constituencies to meet and listen to their people’s challenges. We are told that some don’t even tell their voters the good work the government is doing to bring them development; let me tell you openly, I know some are here as Parliamentarians, CCM won’t tolerate this trend,” warned Dr Bashiru. The Secretary General added: “When the time comes for the General Elections, the party will evaluate the performance of all CCM MPs, which will include marking the number of meetings and rallies one conducted in one’s constituency; those who will fall short in the performance will not be endorsed by the party.” He further said that it was sad to realize that the government was implementing many important projects in the constituencies and their representatives fail to interpret them to the people.