KAGERA coffee production and cultivation area have considerably stagnated despite the region to have huge potential for expansion. Data from Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (Ta- CRI) suggests that the region produces one of the world’s finest Robusta currently cultivated in 51,416 hectares but has expansion potential of 20,774 ha more . Kagera, according to Ta- CRI, that annual average production stands at 320gramme of clean coffee per tree has also have the potential for producing 1.0 kilogramme per tree. Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU), acting General Manager Gosbert Rugumira attributed the main reasons to youth absconding the farming who consider coffee as a slow moving business that does not giving them ‘quick money’. “Old coffee trees are not replaced with the new varieties which are very productive,” Mr Rugumira said. He added: “Also smugglers motivates people to sway away from adhering beans quality [hence] mixing ripe coffee fruits with unripe ones, this leads to poor quality and low prices.” Mr Rugumira who was speaking with the ‘Daily News’ a few days after the coffee buying season starts where processed coffee beans fetch 1,100/- per kg said collecting un dried coffee beans to the market was another reason for low prices. “The coffee auctioning market requires a 12.5 moisture content, but some farmers beans are found with 14 to 15 moisture content, they end up being rejected” he said. To add salt to the wound, he said, coffee beans contaminating with sand and stones bring a fresh challenge to heap of reasons for poor harvest. KCU believes that expanding coffee production in the region requires an immediate need of capacity building to farmers and other stakeholders to realize the region potential. Kagera produces 30 per cent of the country’s total coffee production. KCU is a consortium of 134 primary cooperative societies with over 60 thousand farmers. The farmers are working with some 40 extension officers to equip them with required skills in coffee farming. On combating smuggling, the Kagera Regional Police Commander (RPC) Revokatus Malimi said they are aware of the smuggling practice and their new tactics and the operations are 24/7 throughout the year. “Coffee is being smuggled to neighbouring countries using motorbikes, bicycle or by carrying on heads which makes it difficult to differentiate those from farm to homes and those smuggling. Sometimes smugglers are using shoddy paths clearly known to them on crossing the borders.” Tumain Valentine (28), a youthful farmer whose family produces up to 12 tonnes on 19 acres of land, still see a ray of hope on the crop and optimistic things will change for better. “I am confident coffee prices will rise again to reward farmers’ sweat. It is too early to lose hope and abandon the crop,” Mr Valentine said. Tanzania is among top 20 global coffee producing nations while Uganda and Ethiopia are at top ten. Brazil and Vietnam are world top coffee producers. Ethiopia and Uganda are positioned to boost their production rapidly over the next five years, but only if they can capitalize on domestic demand, successfully market to international buyers and work towards greater efficiency in their operations.