THE Minister for Works, Transport and communications, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe has urged concessionaires at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), to offer services of quality and right standards. Speaking to them yesterday after his tour of the new and modern Terminal III at the JNIA, he said that he expects all of them to be Tanzanians, further insisting that quality and right standards of their products and services matter a lot. “If need be, then conduct trainings to your employees to have perfect services and products,” he stated, adding that: “Hire even foreigners for a short while so that you gain their expertise and knowledge, and after then run your own company, because we want Tanzanians to be the service providers and not enter into contract(s) with foreigners.” However, the Minister warned against mischievous behaviors of some of the concessionaires especially the ones clamouring for joint venture as only being selfish. He narrated examples where some of the local service providers enter into contracts with foreigners only to be pompous that the business is theirs and start to think of how to evade taxes to the government. “Such behavior must stop. And we are conducting investigations so as to put this to an end. This terminal has now opened up new business premises and opportunities, where some of you (concessionaires) have already signed contracts and more tenders will be advertised soon. But I would caution that we do not want fraudulent behaviors, where people come to scheme others, because we are all Tanzanians and we should have one goal of developing our country,” the Minister warned. He pointed out that the opportunities are only for Tanzanians, who should exploit the opportunities as sole owners. “Most of us Tanzanians have the behavior of not owning or take responsibility of our surroundings and brag with a care free statement of ‘it is up to them,’ and such mentality should stop, because we are the ones who would benefit or lose,” said Eng Kamwelwe.