THE National women Under-16 basketball team is upbeat to excel in the 2019 FIBA Africa Junior Championship starting late this month in Rwanda. The third edition of the championship that brings together junior women teams from Africa is scheduled to start from July 28th to August 3rd this year in Kigali, Rwanda. National girls team is set to face big test of their skills in the race for the World Championship slots against tough contenders from Algeria, Angola, Egypt, Mali, Mozambique, Rwanda, South Africa, Tunisia and Uganda. Tanzania qualified for the maiden African level competition after finishing second in the recently ended Under-16 Boys’ and Girls’ FIBA AfroBasket Zone V Championship also held in Rwanda. Tanzania Basketball Association (TBF), president, Phares Magesa said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the prestigious tournament is on a top gear. Magesa said that the players currently continue training ready to face a stiff competition at the continental level event. He said that the African competition will serve as a qualifier for FIBA U-17 World Championship for 2020 championship which Tanzania seeks to participate. “This will be a maiden appearance for our young girls, all this makes it so special, not only for the team and TBF, but for the country at large,” he said. Magesa added that the team’s achievement to qualify for the competition is a big honour for the entire basketball fraternity and country at large, but the youthful players need support to make their dream ends in reality. He said that team still needs support so as to have smooth participation in Kigali and that solidarity and cooperation are vital for the team’s success. “We have many talented players in the team who have all it takes to prosper, they have been in intensive training camp in Arusha for over a month ready for the tough battle,” he said. Magesa has called for support from the government, business firms and sponsors, including sport’s well-wishers to help the federation and the team. National girls squad heading for Rwanda event is made up of Stella Kisoki, Naurei Ngimasirwa, Ndajiri Laizer, Nelious Mbugeni, Anna Mollel, Catherine Mollel, Paulina William, Husna Mwegelo, Happy Seuri, Rachel Masinde, Salome Kasongi and Sesilia Mollel.