BUTTERFLY farmers in Same District, Kilimanjaro Region have requested the Government to lift the ban on export of pupa to butterfly houses abroad. Speaking at their farms at Bwambo village, Chome Ward, the farmers under the Butterfly Project who have formed a special group, said their lives were getting improved under the project until the ban was slapped. Secretary of the Bwambo Group, Mr Msele Elifuraha Mbwambo said they started the project well and earned money they spent on build houses, buy means of transport and educate their children at schools. “Our dreams to become rich through this project are but over; we pray to the Government to lift the ban because the business had emancipated us from poverty but now we are trailing back there. There is no enough local market so now we are idle,” said Mr Mbwambo sadly. Under the project that was sponsored by the Eastern Arc Mountain Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF), as a way to control villagers from destroying the environment in Chome Nature Reserve they used to sell pupa to America and Europe through an agency. The secretary who is also a butterfly farmer noted that they have been left in limbo for almost six months now as there is a very limited access to local market in Zanzibar Another famous butterfly farmer in Chome, Mr Immanuel Eliamani Mbwambo, said since 2013 after experts trained them on how to catch butterflies and keep them so that they lay eggs, he has completed construction of a house, installed solar panels, cover domestic needs and pay school fees for his three children. He said there are varieties of pupa and as well fetch different prices-from 700/-to 2,170 per single pupa that is exported and transforms biologically to a butterfly while already abroad. Mr Mbwambo asked the Government to allow them restart the business as it has helped a lot in environmental conservation and Chome Reserve keeps thriving since villagers had alternative income and do not rely on forest resources any more. However, he warned that life is proving trying as the ban bites. He said they have been selling their products to Amani Centre in Tanga Region who in turn exported them. EAMCEF Northern Zone Projects Officer, Ms Magreth Victor, said the project started in 2012 in Bwambo, Mtii and Myombo villages in Same District after it had proved successful in Amani, Tanga Region. She said they extended it to Same, training beneficiaries and supplying them with nets for farming the insects. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism reiterated the ban would stay, advising the farmers to come up with other means of gaining income through the same products. The idea is that areas where butterfly farming is being undertaken should now devise new ways of attracting visitors to view butterflies on site instead of selling pupas that sustain butterfly houses in Europe and America. That would in turn give mileage to tourism industry in Tanzania.