IT’S Monday morning, a day for clinic at the Town Health Centre in Lindi municipality, and several expectant mothers can be seen sitting on benches waiting for service. In front of them, there is a desk and two chairs. A nurse, in her white uniform, is sitting on one of the chairs, attending to the mothers one by one. On the desk there are several bottles containing tablets, and the nurse, Ms Semeni Lubeya, opens one, removes three tablets, and gives them to one of the pregnant women. The drugs are called Intermittent Preventive Treatment in pregnancy with sulfadoxine- pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP), which is given to pregnant women to protect them from malaria. Malaria infection during pregnancy is a major public health problem, with substantial risks for the mother, her fetus and the neonate. The World Health Organization (WHO), recommends IPTp with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP), in all areas with moderate to high malaria transmission in Africa. Intermittent preventive treatment of malaria in pregnancy is a full therapeutic course of antimalarial medicine given to pregnant women at routine antenatal care visits, regardless of whether the recipient is infected with malaria. IPTp reduces maternal malaria episodes, maternal and fetal anaemia, placental parasitaemia, low birth weight and neonatal mortality. Statistics show that Lindi is among regions topping the list of malaria prevalence in the country, with 11 per cent prevalence. However, the number decreased from 17 per cent recorded in the year 2016/17. “This is a tremendous drop, and we are very keen on ensuring that pregnant women are not infected with malaria. I am happy to report that now we don’t have clinical malaria,” Lindi Regional Medical Officer, John Sijaona says. Though malaria is still among the list of top ten diseases in the region, majority of expectant mothers remain safe after using the immunization. The RMO says that effective use of the IPTp-SP among the women came after the region intensified awareness campaigns in the past two years with support from the ‘USAID Boresha Afya’ project. The five-year project, he says, started in 2016, and helps the region in building capacity to health staff through trainings, facilitating them to be able to reach out to members of the public for service delivery and awareness on the importance of mothers using the SP during pregnancy. He says that the project has also built the capacity of some members of the public who volunteer to spread awareness on malaria and why expectant mothers should attend clinic to get the drugs. The RMO says that the trained volunteers, known as Community Health Workers (CHWs), usually conduct door-to-door campaigns and through gatherings. Dr Godlove Mkumbo, project adviser for malaria in the region, says the project has had a great impact in the region. “With the use of the CHWs, we are now witnessing more women attending their first visit at clinics, thus enabling them to get the second and third dose of IPTp at the right time,” he notes. He says the project has deployed at least 260 CHWs in the region who work under district supervision teams. “The aim of this project is to improve public health, build capacity to health staff and enable more citizens to access health services. Ms Salima Mtitu (36), one of the CHWs at Ng’apa ward, explains that her duty is to encourage women to go for pregnancy test when they notice symptoms of pregnancy so that they could start attending clinic earlier and start getting the SP at the right time. “I usually make followup on mothers to ensure they attend clinic regularly,” she says. When they attend clinic, the health staff also educate the women on maternal health, including the importance of effective use of the SP medicine. Ms Hidaya Lichombo, one of the pregnant women attending clinic at the Town Health Centre, tells the ‘Woman Magazine’ that with her pregnancy now at six months, she has already received the second round of IPTp dose, and is now waiting for the third and fourth round. “I have been educated on the importance of using the drugs for protecting myself and my unborn baby against malaria,” she acknowledges. She says that she heard about the malaria prevention for the first time when she visited the hospital, where clinical attendants were educating women Over 85 per cent of pregnant women in Lindi Region now use IPTp which prevents them from contacting malaria which contributes to maternal deaths. The figure has increased during the last two years, where previously less than 60 per cent of expectant mothers accessed such medicine. Again, the Lindi RMO says that his office has been ensuring that such medicine is always available and mothers attending clinic get awareness on the matter. “We insist that a pregnant woman gets the medicine four times during the period of her pregnancy…though we have not yet fully achieved in making them get the medicine four times, but at least they get it three times,” Mr Sijaona states. Ms Zainab Mathradas, the Regional Coordinator for Maternal Health Services, adds that there are 247 centers providing the malaria prevention drugs to mothers. “For the whole of last year and this year, we have never experienced shortage of the IPTp drugs. We are well managing re-distribution of such medicines to all centers,” she explains. The USAID Boresha Afya– Southern Zone is funded by the United States government through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The program works to address health service gaps in 43 councils across the regions of Iringa, Njombe, Morogoro, Lindi, Mtwara, and Ruvuma. The Deloitte Consulting Limited implements the program with its technical partners Family Health International (FHI360), EngenderHealth and Management and Development for Health (MDH).