FEAR and anger gripped many people, after reports in the media that one Kenyan MP had required foreign traders, including Tanzanians, to move out of his Starehe Constituency within 24 hours, or face the music. However, a day after he made the threat, he was taken into police custody. This local paper which brands itself as “The Echoing Voice of the True Facts” carried this front page headline, in its 27 June (p. 2) edition: “MP arrested over xenophobic remarks”. “The lawmaker from Starehe Constituency, Charles Njagua Kanyi, popularly known as Jaguar, at last, has been arrested by the police force in Kenya for his words of forcing foreign business dealers in Nairobi to ‘quite’ the markets,…………He is as of now, under ‘control’ at Nairobi Police post”. (He has, since been released on bail).  You will agree with me that the MP wanted foreigners ‘to quit’ (not ‘to quite’) certain parts of Nairobi; and that, after his arrest, the MP was detained (not ‘was under control’) at a police station. A suggested rewrite is as follows: “The lawmaker from Starehe Constituency, Charles Njagua Kanyi, popularly known as Jaguar, has, at last, been arrested by the police force in Kenya for his verbal threats of forcing foreign business men in Nairobi to ‘quit’ the markets.  He is detained at the Nairobi Police Regional Headquarters”. In a video clip that circulated widely in the social media, the MP was seen: “asking foreigners who are engaged in business in his area of representation to close their business and ‘vacate’ the country”.  Do you ‘vacate’ a country? To vacate means: “to leave a seat, building etc, especially so that somebody else can use it; or to leave a job or position of authority etc so that it is available for somebody else”. A country is possibly too big a unit to use the verb “vacate”. I would simply use the verb “to leave” and modify the sentence to read: “ …. The MP was seen: ‘asking foreigners who are engaged in business in his area of representation to close their business and ‘leave’ the country’”. What is the Kenyan Government’s position on all this: According to the paper: “Kenyan Government has ‘provided’ their concern that statement, and they made it clear that the do not support that political leader”. The above sentence does not quite make sense, but we believe the writer had something like the following in mind: “The Kenyan Government has ‘expressed’ (not ‘provided’) concern over that statement, and has made it clear that it did not support that MP”. **********  Back home and join our own MPs in Dodoma. In an item titled” TAFIRI releases fish assessment Report on Lake Rukwa” (p. 3), a Staff Reporter narrates as follows: “Fish availability in Lake Rukwa has been declining, due to human activities, a new research ‘which’ conducted by Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute has shown”. In the foregoing sentence, the pronoun “which” could safely be left out: “Fish availability in Lake Rukwa has been declining, due to human activities, a new research conducted by Tanzania Fisheries Research Institute has shown”. The above is reported to have been said: “in ‘a’ Parliament by Deputy Minister in Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries,……. when responding to a question “poised” by Lupa legislator, VM”. Here we are supposed to believe that the MP “poised” a question, which in fact he did not. The right verb in these circumstances is “pose” (not “poise”). To pose a question means to ask a question, especially one that needs serious thought. The whole of the sentence needs a number of rectifications: “The above was said: ‘in Parliament by the Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries,…….when responding to a question ‘posed’ by Lupa legislator, VM”. ****** Finally, to football. Thursday June 27 was D-day for Taifa Stars in Cairo. The Echo’s back page, carried this headline: “Soccer fans ‘hopes’ Stars will make it today”. Then: “Today’s match between Taifa Stars and Kenyan Harambee Stars has positive predictions from soccer fans ‘believe’ Tanzania will win ‘while’ open a chance for Tanzania to focus ‘to’ the final match against Algeria”. The news item should have been presented slightly differently: “Soccer fans ‘hope’ Stars will make it today”. Then: “Today’s match between Taifa Stars and Kenyan Harambee Stars has positive predictions from soccer fans ‘who believe’ Tanzania will win. ‘This should’ open a chance for Tanzania to focus ‘on’ the final match against Algeria”. Much as Taifa Stars lost, there is always hope for future wins.  