THE government’s efforts to reduce the number of referrals abroad has received a boost from the government of the People’s Republic of China through its donation of a modern machine for treating some heart complications, which previously required patients to seek medical treatment abroad. The cardiac ablation machine is used to treat patients with abnormal electrical signals in the heart as specialists map inside the heart and burn the spots, which emits abnormal heart rates (heartbeats). According to Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) Executive Director, Prof Mohamed Janabi (pictured), patients with abnormal heart beats are at a high risk of getting stroke. Speaking in Dar es Salam during the launch of the China- Tanzania Heart to Heart Medical Mission yesterday, Prof Janabi said the equipment was important for his institution because it would be used to treat some complicated cases, which were previously referred abroad. Prof Janabi said what differentiated the ongoing medical camp, which involved heart specialists from Shandong and JKCI, was that the medical team had come with the cardiac ablation machine, which apart from providing services local experts were also being trained on how to use it. “This team has brought us a new technology. We are very grateful because they are leaving us with the machine, which is very expensive and we are going to continue using it... three patients have already undergone the procedure,” he said. Prof Janabi noted that the team had also performed a bypass surgery on eight patients. “These are complicated cases and they are not the usual ones. The good thing is that at the same time the service is provided and training is also provided.” Minister for Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu commended China for implementing the agreement they entered with the Tanzanian government in 2018. “The government of the People’s Republic of China has lived up to its pledge and today (yesterday )we are going to launch a joint camp for heart related surgeries, which will involve local specialists in collaboration with the medical mission from Shandong in China as part of the implementation of our agreement,” she said. Ms Mwalimu noted that JKCI had been holding various camps, but for the first time in the history they were going to host the first medical camp for heart surgeries jointly organised by China and Tanzania. “Through this medical camp, Tanzanians will benefit from high quality services such as surgical and treatment of cardiovascular related complications and reduce the number of referrals abroad especially for services, which were a bit complicated and risky,” she said. “We have witnessed three patients, who had complicated heart problems, but due to lack of equipment they could not undergo surgical procedures by local specialists alone, but through this camp the operations have been possible,” Ms Mwalimu noted. She said non-communicable diseases were still high in the country and stressed the need to build the country’s internal capacity in the provision of services related to such complications. Ms Mwalimu commended the government of the People’s Republic of China for donating the modern cardiac ablation machine and consumables worth 500m/-. She said Tanzania would be the only country in East Africa with such a modern machine. She said the government would continue setting aside the budget from its internal sources for supporting JKCI to provide better services.