SHIPPING lines opting to directly ship cargo from Europe or Asia to Dar es Salaam port will be accorded special berth as incentive, it was announced yesterday. The special berth treatment will help shippers to avoid queuing at the port’s outer anchorage for they would be directly going to dock at their specific seafront, reducing the stay time. He expressed optimism that the direct shipping of cargo will make Dar es Salaam port the regional hub as well as increase imports and exports through the maritime facility. The minister was speaking in the city after his meeting with some top shipping line operators in the world. The shipping companies at present included the Pacific International Lines (PIL), CMI and CMG shipping company. Dar es Salaam port works with over 25 shipping lines but yesterday was for the giant players in the industry. “We will give you— PIL— special berth because you have started taking cargo directly from Europe to Dar es Salaam port, so you will be coming directly from Europe to your berth... encourage your colleagues to use the Dar port as well,” Eng Kamwelwe told PIL management. He assured the international shippers that they were key partners in the port operations, describing the cargo handling trend at the facility as promising, having increased from 14 to 15.1 million tonnes in three years. The minister said several improvements, including deepening of berths number one to 11, continue. So far, construction of berth number one and two has been completed. He said ongoing projects to upgrade Tanga and Mtwara ports will further back up Dar es Salaam port, assisting as feeder ports. Elaborating on his call to shipping lines to deploy specialised tools, Eng Kamwelwe said there is huge potential in export of perishable agricultural produce, including avocados and horticultural products. “We believe that investing in facilities to export perishable goods will increase amount of export and trade in the region,” he said. Eng Kamwelwe also appealed to the shipping line owners to recruit Tanzanian graduates from Dar es Salaam Maritime Institute (DMI), saying there were many seafarers graduating from the institute. Foreign and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi whose portfolio is entrusted with promotion of economic diplomacy opened the meeting, telling the shipping liners that Tanzania offered the best business environment, thanks to existing peace, security and friendly investment laws. He said the government is determined to fight corruption and increase the contribution of private sector to the national economic growth. Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) Director General Engineer Deusdedit Kakoko said enabling ships to come direct to Dar es Salaam, will turn the facility into the regional hub instead of feeding other ports in the neighbouring countries. “If we will get Maersk and CMC ships coming directly to Dar es Salaam, we will have won,” Engineer Kakoko stated. Dar es Salaam Port Director Freddy Liundi said so far customers have been impressed by the port performance, thanks to completion of construction works to upgrade berths number one and two.