JULIUS Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) terminal III is expected to start full operations early next month. The newly constructed terminal will for the first time handle hundreds of Southern African Development Community (SADC) Heads of States and officials to the 39th Summit in the commercial capital, Dar es Salam. Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communication Engineer Atashasta Nditiye said in the city yesterday that the terminal is expected to increase passengers using JNIA from 2.5 million to eight million, annually. “We expect that by early next month, the terminal will be fully operational. I’m satisfied with the progress…we are conducting pilot trips through this terminal. There will be a trip of Dar es Salaam- Mumbai on the 19th of this month,” Mr Nditiye said during his tour of JNIA to inspect the facility. There are several trials that are proceeding in the new terminal to ensure smooth operations before it’s officially opened. “After five days from now, the terminal operators will be doing live trials where people will be boarding and exiting air craft, including all processes involved,” he said. He assured that all operations continue well and there are minor issues being completed prior to the door opening in August. “The terminal will upgrade JNIA status as it is set to increase the number of aircraft and passengers using the airport,” he commented, adding: “As of now JNIA is on the fifth position in Africa on air craft movement, the sixth position on the number of passengers and seventh on cargo ranking.” Eng Nditiye affirmed that, “The terminal is ready to receive Heads of states who will be coming for the 39th SADC summit.” The JNIA Director Engineer Paul Rwegasha said that the completion of terminal III will immensely increase passengers. “The terminal will serve six million passengers annually, with 2,800 passengers attended during peak hours daily, terminal two will serve 1.5 million passengers and terminal one will serve 500,000 passengers,” he said. He added that JNIA serves 6,700 passengers per day where 3641 are for international flights, 3058 are for domestic. The airport serves up to 201,000 passengers monthly. The airport records 198 aircraft movements daily, with 51 international, 44 domestic and 102 unscheduled domestic flights. For business class and VIP, the new terminal will have the ability to serve at least 200 passengers, daily. Eng Rwegasha cited some of the challenges that the airport is currently facing as lack of major renovations and upgrade for terminals one and two. “The buildings and systems of the two terminals need major renovations as most of the infrastructures like the central cooling system are obsolete need replacement,” he said. Tanzania Airport Authority (TAA) Director General Julius Ndyamukama explained that having 227,000 square metres, the terminal is capable to park 19 aircrafts of code C at once or 11 aircrafts of code E like Boeing 787 Dream liner. The terminal also has 12 passenger boarding bridges and provides a car parking space of over 2075, he said. “The terminal has used 276.8 Euro under BAM Construction Company where 85 per cent of the money came from HSBC bank as loan and the remaining 15 per cent was from the government,” he said. Since the terminal was handed over to TAA in May this year, it has been conducting Operational Readiness and Airport Transfer (ORAT) which is expected to end this month. Live trials are expected to be conducted on July 17, this year, using Air Tanzania, although some basic trails have already started. “This will enable us to ensure systems like luggage, customs are operational.” He added; “The ORAT has been done by experts from within the country, saving 3.5bn/-. It could have cost more if the government had hired a foreign consultant.”