REMOVING the stigma and shame of gender-based violence can happen by engaging in a safe, free dialogue It may seem like a small thing, but starting that conversation is a step in the right direction to creating a safer, more just, and more understanding society for us all. According to the last year’s report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the most dangerous place for women is at home where majority of female homicide victims worldwide are killed by their partners or family. The report reveals that 87,000 women were killed in the world in 2017 alone, while 50,000 or 58 per cent were murdered by their intimate partners or family members. This report is supported by the Legal and Human Rights Centre (LHRC) report of 2018 released earlier this year depicting the situation of human rights in the country. Titled “Sexual Violence: A Threat to Child Rights and Welfare in Tanzania, the report states that from January to June last year, a total of 6,376 incidents of violence were reported. Incidents of rape have increased from 759 in 2017 to 2,365 in 2018 according to the LHRC report. Lack of proper care and parental guidance, household poverty, witchcraft-beliefs, low awareness about child rights and family disintegration are among the major reasons that trigger sexual violence against children. Joint efforts of various stakeholders including the police force, religious leaders and civil society are needed to fight the increasing cases of GBV. The Children’s Dignity Forum (CDF), a non-governmental organization, in collaboration with the Embassy of Sweden in Tanzania and the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) have conducted their second feedback meeting with all Regional Police Commanders in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar to develop strategies for fighting violence against children and women. The conference has highlighted key issues that should now be addressed in order to help to eradicate sexual violence in the country. @Continuation of violence means there is a problem; it shows that the police did not fulfill their responsibilities,” Inspector General Police (IGP) Simon Sirro told the meeting. “This is a challenge when you find a child who is raped or a dead. For us something seems to have gone wrong,” he added. He said by the end of last year and early this year unknown people abducted and killed several children on different occasions in the regions. The killings of women were linked to superstitious beliefs. Some perpetrators were said to believe that using body parts in rituals could bring them riches, success, and power or enhance their virility. ”You must ensure that this crime is eliminated in the society,” Sirro said. He police commanders to ensure that police desks dealing with gender-based violence were used effectively to curb the crime. “If a person says crime has increased, you should examine yourself. These challenges return to the performance of commanders,“ he explained. He was supported by the Head of Community Police Mussa A. Mussa who said “the biggest challenge is to educate the community about consequences of gender violence.” “We want to reach out to the people, not by leaflets but teaching them. Of course, there are challenges but these are things that we will work for,” he said. The performance of police gender and children’s desks was also questioned as it left much to be desired. “There are challenges that Regional Police Commander should solve,” he said. The CDF as well as the police carried out a research on the performance of police gender desks and found out that they need strict management. “Many desks are supervised by female officers. These desks are not for women because there are men who are also being abused by their partners,” he said. Renata Mzinga, the Head of Police Gender Desk, admitted that the society is faced with the challenge of rape and homosexuality. She government is making efforts to ensure that the community becomes a safe place for all people and that any acts of violence must be fought at all costs. “This is a social problem so the police should continue to educate the community.” Njombe Regional Police Commander Hamduni Salum said rape cases and child killings are caused by superstitious beliefs. Since January to May 2018, a total of 423 cases were reported in the region compared to 429 cases this year. North Unguja Regional Police Commander Haji Abdallah Haji said monitoring is the most important thing since the community lacks enough knowledge about gender violence. “We have urged religious leaders and other local leaders to educate the public instead of depending on police patrols,” he explained. Benjamin Kuzaga, the Katavi Regional Police Commander told the meeting that his region experiences the challenges posed by the influx of migrants -- particularly pastoralist communities. “This interaction has resulted in teenage pregnancies but we are addressing this problem by involving leaders at all levels. Kigoma Regional Police Commander Martine Otieno reported experiencing the influx of refugees from Burundi and Congo, some of whom harbor deadly weapons, thus causing violence to their host communities. Kilimanjaro Regional Police Commander Hamisi Selemani urged the Parliament to amend the law that permits suspects of rape to be granted bail. Iringa Regional Police Commander Juma Bwire said there are challenges that doctors avoid filling out the PF3 forms to victims of gender violence.