THE crave for Kiswahili language is slowly but surely spilling over the continent, after the African Union (AU) joined forces with the East African Community (EAC) in setting the pace for the recognition and promotion of the prestigious language as a mode of communication in Africa. Under the Dar-es-Salaam Framework of Action adopted by the African Academy of Languages (ACALAN), the East African Kiswahili Commission, KAKAMA, the two organisations have agreed and committed to work closely and with other organisations on the continent and beyond to achieve the set goal. Addressing a consultative meeting on Kiswahili’s promotion as a language of wider continent’s communication recently, Tanzanian Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Dr Harrisson Mwakyembe, challenged participants drawn from across Africa to galvanise the spirit and energy of Pan Africanism and the need for Africa and persons of African descent to be united. He said Kiswahili provides a platform for the promotion of a feeling of solidarity and pride among the people of the African world by inculcating pride in African values and consciousness. “There is a legitimate need and interest in the promotion of Kiswahili as a Pan-African language of integration and development as a response to globalisation and regionalisation movements now in vogue across the world,” said the minister. Dr Mwakyembe singled out Tanzania and the EAC as excellent examples of the potential of Kiswahili to achieve integration and development. In his remarks delivered on his behalf by the KAKAMA Executive Secretary Prof Kenneth Simala, EAC Secretary General, Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko, said the establishment and operationalisation of KAKAMA demonstrates the realisation and commitment of political leadership and policy organs of the EAC of the importance of Kiswahili for regional integration and sustainable development. The envoy stressed that Kiswahili was imperative to creating awareness and understanding of the challenges and opportunities that come with integration and development. “The language is a strategic resource for communication and active citizen participation in development,” explained the EAC boss. Ambassador Mfumukeko welcomed AU’s decision of promoting the language as a Pan-African lingua franca and promised the EAC’s support in using Kiswahili as a catalyst to achieving AU’s Agenda 2063. On his part, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (Unesco) country’s representative Mr Tirso Dos Santos, hailed the AU and EAC for the importance they attach to Kiswahili as a medium and tool of communication relevant and necessary for educational, scientific and cultural development of Africa. He noted that the UN agency was alive to the realities of African culture in general, and language in particular. Mr Dos Santos further hailed the emerging collaborative partnership between ACALAN and KAKAMA as specialised language agencies and pledged UNESCO support to these initiatives for the sake of economic and social development of the continent. Chairperson of ACALANAU Assembly of Academicians Prof Baye Mekonen, reiterated the importance of Kiswahili as a Pan-African language of identity and tool of communication and development. He acknowledged that Africa is highly multi-lingual, hence the need to focus on recognising and promoting Kiswahili as a common language, without neglecting other equally important African languages of identity.