BRAZILIAN state-run oil firm Petroleo Brasileiro SA has said it will collaborate with local service providers in the oil and gas industry in capacity building to enable them tap opportunities availed in the booming industry. The Chairman of Tanzania Oil & Gas Service Providers (ATOGS), Abdulsamad Abdulrahim who led a business mission to Brazil said at meeting held in Rio de Janeiro last Friday, Petrobras pledged to support training and scholarships to service providers to promote local content in the oil and gas sector that has been boosted with discoveries of natural gas reserves in Lindi and Mtwara regions. “Petrobras was lucidly open that there aren’t any investments ought to be made in Tanzania on oil and gas exploration, however, ... promised to offer human development assistance possible through training and scholarships as well as assisting with market penetration opportunities for their products,” said Mr Abdulrahim, who is also the Consul of Brazil to Zanzibar. Tanzania has 57 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of proven natural gas reserves and expects to reap close to 5.0 billion US dollars annually in gas exports revenue through the proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant. A consortium of international oil companies are expected to start building a long-delayed LNG project in 2022, near huge offshore natural gas discoveries in deep water in Lindi. The government said in March it planned to conclude talks in September with a group of foreign oil and gas companies led by Norway’s Equinor on developing the LNG terminal. Equinor, alongside Royal Dutch Shell, Exxon Mobil and Ophir Energy and Pavilion Energy, plan to build the onshore LNG plant in Lindi region. “Construction of this project is expected to start in 2022 and will be concluded in 2028,” the Energy Minister, Medard Kalemani, said in a budget presentation to parliament. Mr Abdulrahin said he urged Petrobras to invest in Tanzania in other areas such as wind power, solar and other renewable source of energy to support the country vision in industrialisation. He also urged them to seize the opportunities that Tanzania and its unquestionable vastly developing market has to offer in sectors such as domestic production and marketing of LPG, domestic manufacturing of LPG cylinders, retail distribution less expensive gas burners to eradicate charcoal consumption. Other areas include processing plants as well as industries for production of refined mineral oil, petroleum jelly and grease and crude oil refining with efficient export facilities. He said he issued a formal invitation to Petrobras Executive Management to the Tanzania for the Oil & Gas Congress which is to be held on 2nd to 3rd October for them to offer their experience on best practice on the industry.