TANZANIA national team, Taifa Stars must win at any cost in the return leg in Nairob i after they were held by Kenya Harambee Stars in the Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. It was the first leg encounter for the teams as the returning match is expected on August 2nd at Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya as each both teams look for a slot of 2020 CHAN finals to be held in Ethiopia. As anticipated, it was Taifa Stars who started the match oh high pedal, not afraid to go towards the opponents territory using all the available penetration areas but the visitors defended well throughout the game. Skipper John Bocco and Idd Seleman were almost on target during the opening six minutes, but the latter saw his header sailing wide for a goal kick despite being at a promising area to post the much awaited goal. In terms of ball possession, the home team was perfect only lacking that important strike which could have resulted into a leading goal for the team. Veteran goalkeeper Juma Kaseja, who replaced injured first choice custodian Aishi Manula, was never seriously troubled throughout the opening forty-five minutes as he was well protected by his concrete defence made up of Kelvin Yondani, Gadiel Michael, Paulo Godfrey and Erasto Nyoni. T ogether, they worked well to hold Harembee Star’s danger men Enosh Ochieng and Duke Abuya, who looked sharp on the ball especially when making counter attacks. In the 37th minute, Jonas Mkude saw his long range effort slightly going away from the intended target with Kenya goalkeeper John Oyemba well beaten at his guarding area. It was a relief for the neighbours. However, as the two teams went for a break, the home team had four shots against one recorded by Harambee Stars. The second half was again very interesting as each team looked sharp to make a difference and grab the vital three points prior to the reverse match. Taifa Stars interim coach Etienne Ndayiragije made his first substitution in the 54th minute calling to bench Ayubu Lyanga for Ibrahim Ajibu hoping to increase power at the middle of the terrain. His introduction was felt in the 65th minute as he managed to win a free-kick at a good place but his final output hit the man-made wall of Harambee Stars players who cleared it to safety. Again, in a move to increase pressure at the frontline, Ndayiragije introduced Kelvin John for Hassan Dilunga in the 67th minute who later managed to play a sweet cross into the opponent’s penalty box targeting his compatriot Idd Seleman to make a slight touch to the low-flying ball but Harambee Star’s goalie Oyemba made a timely interception of the ball. With only five minutes to go, captain Bocco was substituted for Salim Aiyee who made his debut for the national team squad and had some good touches for the few minutes he played. Ayiee’s best chance was in 92nd minute as he fired from a distance but Oyemba was alert to punch it away for a corner kick. Earlier yesterday, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) in its press release announced that the team’s number one goal keeper Aishi Manula and defender David Mwantika were ruled out of the match due to injuries.