EAST and West run parallel and do not and will never, meet each other; I’m quite sure and feel quite strongly that we’re served with an example of two global ‘fake’ constants last week: that, in order to save the environment we’ve to ‘stay in the dark’ as a matter born out of necessity to protect our Elephants. We’re the least qualified to question anybody’s intelligence over this, yet Yours truly believes that the two – environment and darkness simply do not ‘cut’ because, for one, we’ve been losing those intelligent and highly-organized ‘jumbo’ mammals for years, almost always under cover of darkness. For another, we’ve been so hapless at stemming the tide of elephant slaughter because we appear just as vulnerable to all manner of manipulation as if we cannot find our way home – even in broad afternoon – without the usual doze of expert counsel. Something had to g iv e: En ter JPM. If still in the dark, we’re talking about construction of the justlaunched power station located across the Rufiji River, in the Stieg ler’s Gorge, now re-christened Nyerere National Park, in the headlands of the larger Selous Game Reserve, Pwani (Coast) Region, approximately 220km (137 miles), by road, southwest of Dar, the commercial capital and largest city of Tanzania. During its launch, President John Pombe Magufuli (JPM) said categorically that he was aware of some dissenting views that this power plant would have negative impact, but said its benefits outweigh the perceived losses. This power station is located in this world-class wildlife reserve, one of the world’s largest World Heritage sites, measuring 45,000 sq km (17,000 sq mi). The power station and reservoir lake have been planned to occupy approximately 1,350 sq km (520 sq mi), within the game reserve. The idea to tap the vast waters of the Rufiji River has been one of Tanzania’s biggest dreams, seeking to establish this power station since the 1960s. When fully developed, it will be the country’s largest power station; the 134 metres (440 ft) arched, concrete dam is expected to create a reservoir lake, 100km (62 mi), in length, measuring 1,200 square kilometres (460 sq mi), with 34,000,000,000 cubic metres (1.2× 1012 cu ft) of water. In August 2017, the Government advertised for bids to construct this dam. The selected contractor is expected to complete the dam in no more than 36 months. The power generated will be evacuated via a new 400kV high voltage power line to a substantiation where the power will be integrated into the national electricity grid. The government of Ethiopia is advising the Tanzanian government on the implementation of this project. In December 2018, The Government of Tanzania finally awarded the construction contract to Arab Contractors Limited of Egypt, at a budgeted cost of US$2.9 billion (TSh6.558 trillion). Shortly before this, the World Heritage Committee (WH-Com) “reiterated its grave concern about Tanzania’s decision to move forward on the project and added it to the grounds for the Selous Game Reserve to be on the List of World Heritage, which was previously concerned with elephant poaching. In February 2019, the Government handed over the construction site to the consortium comprising Arab Contractors and El Sewedy, both of Egypt, who had been selected to build the power station. Allowing six months to mobilize equipment, actual construction is expected to start in the Third quarter of calendar year 2019. In April 2019, the Government made its own upfront payment of US$309.645 million, representing approximately 15 per cent total cost of construction. According to the EastAfrican newspaper, quoting BBC, the dam is billed as the fourth largest in Africa and ninth largest in the world – and that construction of the power station has since begun. Now back to whispers from world heritage buffs: The need to conserve forests and wildlife isn’t news, in fact, their conservation was seen as critical to Tanzania’s future was voiced in a sanctified charter, known as the Arusha Manifesto, by the Founding President of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere -- recognized the integral part that wildlife plays in the country. In September 1961, at a symposium on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, he gave a speech that has become known as the Arusha Manifesto. The statement resonates across most of Africa today: “The survival of our wildlife is a matter of grave concern to all of us in Africa. These wild creatures amid the wild places their inhabit are not only important as a source of wonder and inspiration, but are an integral part of our natural resources and our future livelihood and wellbeing. In accepting the trusteeship of our wildlife we solemnly declare that we will do everything in our power to make sure that our children’s grand-children will be able to enjoy this rich and precious inheritance… “ The conservation of wildlife and wild places calls for specialist knowledge, trained manpower and money and we look to other nations to cooperate with us in this important task – the success or failure of which not only affects the continent of Africa but the rest of the world as well.” So it was so crystal clear to our leaders 60 –minus two -- years ago that it’s almost haunting to read about “grave concerns” over a project that was Mwalimu’s ‘pet’ subject to his own grave. Now listen to this: Q UOT E: Tanzania’s manifesto isn’t just about wildlife. It’s not just about Africa. It’s about biodiversity and sustainability of the human race. We don’t have time to waste. Momentum is building against the web of life and we have an unprecedented chance to draw a line in the dirt in Africa. Some courageous visionaries in Kenya and Tanzania have stepped up with comprehensive plans that can make a difference. With your help, they are ready to make a difference that can span the globe. UNQ UOT E.