EAST African Community (EAC) has joined President John Magufuli’s recently initiated campaign to decongest prisons and ensure release of all illegally incarcerated victims. Chiefs of Prisons and Correctional Services from the six partner states convened in Kampala, Uganda for an extra ordinary meeting and adopted a roadmap for implementation of Human Rights Capacity Building Programme that will run for five years beginning this July under the Swedish government support through the Raoul Wallenburg Institute funding and EAC Secretariat coordination. EAC Secretary General Ambassador Liberat Mfumukeko (pictured) reminded the Chiefs of Prisons and Correctional Services of expectation of the East Africans with regard to proximate treatment, anchored on observance of Standard Minimum Rules of Treatment of offenders as they come into contact with correctional services in the course of movement in the EAC region. In his remarks delivered by EAC Peace and Security Expert Leonard Onyonyi, Ambassador Mfumukeko encouraged the sub-sector to take advantage of the foundation that had been laid by the European Union (EU) funded Maritime Security Project to strengthen joint training and experience sharing. The meeting took note of the ever-increasing prison population and limited resources that undermines implementation of reforms necessary for enhancement of human rights observance. It was noted that the staff-inmates ratio in Uganda is at 1:7 while Rwandan is 1:46. Rwanda Correctional Service Commissioner General Andrew Rwigamba chaired the meeting that was attended by Kenya Prisons Service Commissioner General Wycliffe Ogallo and his Ugandan counterpart Dr Johnson Byabashayija. Tanzania Prisons Commissioner General was represented by Deputy Commissioner of Prison John Masunga while Aloys Habonimana and Major General Longar Wol Dhel represented Burundi Penitentiary Service Director General and South Sudan Prisons Service Director General, respectively. Ambassador Mfumukeko congratulated the sub-sector for continually deepening cooperation to implement the EAC integration imperatives, the Common Market Protocol in particular. He encouraged stakeholders to intensify execution of enabling articles of the Peace and Security Protocol now that it is in force upon attaining full ratification in December 2018. Rwanda offered to share innovative homegrown approaches to achieve correctional objectives within the prevailing resource constraints.