MAINLAND champions Simba battled to a 1-1 draw w ith South African g iants Orlando Pirates, in th eir final pre-season f riendly match at Rand Stadium in Rosettenville, a su bu rb in Johannesburg yesterday. Creative midfielder, Clatous Chama put Simba ahead in the 33rd minute but Orlando Pirates pulled level with five minutes before the breather through Augustine Mulenga. According to reports for South Africa, both teams displayed attacking display but the Soweto giants Orlando Pirates, who are under the tutelage of former Young African Head Coach, Milutin “Micho” Sredojevic had to dig deep to pull level. Last Thursday, Simba were held to a 1-1 draw by Botswana side Township Rollers in a pre-season friendly match in Rustenburg, South Africa. It was the fourth warm up match for Simba, who have pitched a two-week camp in Rustenburg, South Africa, ahead of the upcoming busy calendar, which will see them playing in three major competitions like the Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). In their first match, Simba registered an emphatic 4-0 win over a University side, Orbret TVET last Tuesday, before cruising to a 4-1 win over Platinum Stars in Rustenburg, South Africa the following day. Last Wednesday, Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems expressed his satisfaction with the development of his squad. “In the past few days we made some training sessions and I wanted to see what we have worked out in last few days especially defensively. Our focus right now is development and improvement of the team especially defensively. “These games are almost training sessions and I’m satisfied with what I’ve seen. The target is to be ready before the CAF Champions League and Mainland Premier League kicks off,” said the Belgian trainer . The Msimbazi Reds are due to return home today ready for busy annual ‘Simba Week’ which will culminate with ‘Simba’ Day on August 6th this year. With CAF Champions League fixture officially released and Simba thrown into the fray right from the first round, the Msimbazi Street side had to adjust their programme. Simba will face Mozambican side UD Songo in the first round, with the first leg set to be played away in Maputo in the weekend of August 9, 10 and 11 while the return leg will be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam two weeks later. According to reports posted on the club’s social media networks, the eagerly awaited ‘Simba Day’ will now be staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on August 6th this year, where they will face six times Zambian champions Power Dynamos on the occasion of the Tanzanian club’s 83rd anniversary. In 1991, Power Dynamos became the first southern African club to win a continental trophy after they won the African Cup Winners’ Cup. The annual event, which is normally staged on August 8th, is increasingly becoming popular among Simba supporters, and this will be the tenth year in a row the Reds stage the bonanza, which precedes the start of the Mainland Premier League season. As usual, the club will use the day to unveil new kits for the 2019/2020 season, introduce their entire squad for the forthcoming season and award outstanding current and former player. The new faces will include Brazilian trio --defender, Tairone Santos da Silva from Brazil’s Serie D side Atletico Cearense FC, defender Gerson Fraga Vieira from Indian Top Division side ATK and striker Wilker Henrique da Silva from Bragantino FC, a Serie D side in Brazil.