ALL is set for the 2019 Turkish Airline World Golf Cup Qualifier competition, scheduled to tee off on July 20 at the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC), course. According to the invitation letter to local golf clubs released by Turkish’s Airline Dar es Salaam-Agent/Sales & Traffic (Intl), Hashim Bhoki, confirmed that DGC course will host the qualifier. Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Course of Zanzibar General Manager, Elias Soka confirmed to the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ yesterday that they have received the invitation from Turkish Airline and the club has already informed golfers for them to consider. The invitation that this paper had its copy reads: “It is our great pleasure to invite you and all members of Zanzibar Golf club to attend the 2019 Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup Dar es Salaam qualifier.” Established in 2013 with just 12 events, this global amateur golf series is now played in many countries worldwide than any other corporate amateur event, mirroring the truly global reach of Turkish Airlines. Bhoki said that the 2019 qualifying series will feature events in 103 destinations across 72 countries worldwide including Tanzania. He added that the event providing a unique opportunity for participants to network with senior business people in a relaxed environment, whilst enjoying a round of golf at one of the world’s most prestigious golf courses. This year’s Turkish Airlines World Golf Cup is proudly sponsored by National Car Rental & SOCAR. He said that entries are limited therefore they encourage golfers to register early to avoid disappointment. They should send their full names and email address to hbhoki@thy.com. “Due to the limited number of participants, entries will be accepted on a ‘first-come, first-served’ basis,” it said. The competition will be an individual stable ford format. The best net stable ford winner from each qualifying event will join the Grand Final as a guest of Turkish Airlines. The maximum handicap index for both men and women will be 24.0. The Grand Final will take place from November 2 to 10th this year in Turkey. Hefty prizes also wait for winners including participation in the Grand Final, Round Trip Business Class flights to Antalya, Turkey with Turkish Airlines and eight nights’ accommodation. The finalists will enjoy hospitality at the Turkish Airlines Open also, while the leading players at the Grand Final will have the opportunity to progress to play in the Pro-Am at the Turkish Airlines Open with a leading European Tour professional. Past winners have had the once in a lifetime opportunity to partner modern day greats of the game, including Rory McIlroy and 14-time Major Champion, Tiger Woods.