APPROACH change in story coverage coupled with capacity building has enabled journalists with Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) to shine in the Excellence in Journalism Awards of Tanzania (EJAT). Journalists from the stateowned media company—publishers of Daily News, Habari Leo and SpotiLeo newspapers— emerged winners of EJAT— 2018, scooping top prizes in five categories. During the 2018 EJAT award giving gala in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, TSN journalists outshined their colagreed leagues from other media outlets, almost dominating the many categories in print media. TSN Acting Managing Editor Tuma Abdallah yesterday attributed the victory to increased response by journalists themselves to pursue and write stories that communicate human feelings, stories that tell issues directly affecting people in the society. “A change of approach was response towards demand from our readers...with the emerging of new media, we have to give our readers analytical and detailed stories,” Ms Abdallah stated during an interview, commending the winners and TSN team for the triumph. The five winners are Alfred Lasteck, Rahel Palangyo, Adam Lutta, Meddy Mulisa and Sauli Giliard. They were among 81 nominees—48 males and 33 females— selected from different media houses after filtering 644 entries, which were submitted to the Media Council of Tanzania (MCT)—the competition organisers. Habari Leo’s Alfred Lasteck, with his story on how some traders at Kariakoo were cheating on the government taxes, won the award for Taxation and Revenue Collection Reporting category for print media. Daily News veteran journalist Meddy Mulisa won the award for Tourism and Conservation Reporting category for print with his story on evaluation of Bugiri National Reserve to attract more tourists. Ms Rahel Palangyo of Habari Leo scooped the Best Photo journalist award with a photo showing soldiers forcibly carrying a soccer fan. A story reflecting how road accidents affect the health sector earned Adam Lutta of Habari Leo the award for Road safety reporting category for print. Sauli Giliard of ‘Daily News’ scooped the award for Sports and Culture category for print through his story on capitation grants in Ifakara District primary schools. Through research, the journalist found out that sports activities were not well funded, resulting into lack of playing facilities at the schools he visited. Other TSN journalists who performed best at that event and emerged as second runners up in different categories are Frank Leonard (Habari Leo) and Abdallah Msuya (Daily News). Speaking on his victory, Mr Lasteck said it was not that easy, but attributed it to his efforts and TSN management. Ms Palangyo said the award meant a lot to her, considering the challenges that women face in their efforts to prosper in their lives. Chief Guest at the award gala, University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) Senior Lecturer Professor Chris Maina heaped praises on the media outlets in Tanzania for playing a pivotal role in addressing social problems and contributing to social transformation. “Well written articles with facts provide essential information to members of the public,” said Professor Maina. EJAT Organising Committee Chairperson Kajubi Mukajanga praised and thanked the sponsors for financing the EJAT-2018 gala. He advised local media outlets to find alternative sources of income, revealing that majority of them relied on unpredictable advertisements for survival. The overall winner was Salome Kitomari who reports for Nipashe Newspaper. Her winning story was an investigative piece on how markets lose billions and another was on pension benefits. In 2011, TSN also celebrated its former reporter Orton Kiishweko who emerged EJAT overall winner. Recently, another reporter with TSN Anne Robi was declared the overall winner in the Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF) organised competition, which looked at journalists who had written many stories about children issues.