THE National Service economic wing-Suma JKT has introduced an agriculture insurance product, to protect among others, its 'Farm Production Unit' and facilitate availability of quantity and quality farm produce. The Insurance Broker is a subsidiary of SUMA JKT, whose operations started last month with agriculture insurance product being a priority, said the Insurance Broker's Managing Director, Captain Godson Mhando at the just ended 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair. The fact that the nation depends much on Suma JKT’s contribution towards industrial development through its Farm Production Unit, that was among the reasons behind introduction of the insurance product, explained Captain Mhando. “There is no way we can attain the industrialisation goal without protecting our farms against any possible natural disasters, mostly drought or floods. We incurred a 700m/- loss in 2004 when our rice farms were swept away by floods at Ruvu area in Coast Region. “It was really a very huge loss we had never experienced before. We thus saw the importance of insurance covers for us and the public at large, and thus started the process to have this insurance broker,” he explained. Capt Mhando stated that the cover was not only for the SUMA Farm Production Unit but was also set to serve the general public, so as to support many people engaged fully in agricultural activities and thus support the industrialisation drive. Elaborating on types of insurance premiums, Captain Mhando said that there was no specific amount since the cover depends on the size of the farm to be protected as well as geographical location of the farm in question. He clarified that some people were investing in disaster-prone areas, mostly in valleys where the crops can easily be swept away by rain waters; the type of premium cannot thus not be low. According to him, the premiums also depend on the client’s type of agriculture, saying those who undertake irrigation farming will have to pay less for insurance covers compared to their counterparts in the non-irrigation sphere. “In most cases, irrigation farming guarantees the targeted farm outputs as such kind of farming doesn’t depend on rains, he said, adding. “However, geographical location still matters for those who run irrigation farming because some have been deliberately conducting their activities in disaster-prone zones because they have already been protected.” For his part, Suma JKT Spokesperson, Major Javan Bwai, advised the government and other stakeholders to enlighten the public on agriculture insurancerelated matters, saying very few seemed to be well informed about the subject. He added that even the few who did were not adequately aware that insurance companies/ brokers were only covering unavoidable/unforeseen loss one has experienced as a result of natural disasters and not any kind of loss.