TANZANIA is on clear path towards development, thanks to strong focus and decisive leadership of the government, former Prime Minister Cleopa Msuya has said. The ex-premier said although it was too early to properly assess President John Magufuli presidency, already his strategic vision indicates that the country is on the right direction to industrialised economy. “I’m optimistic we are in the right direction,” Mr Msuya said in an interview at his Dar es Salaam residence yesterday, adding: “Three and half years are not enough, we need at least ten years.” The 88-year old former premier who rarely speaks to the media or in public said since day one when President Magufuli took office, he clearly focused on building an industrial economy. As a result, Mr Msuya noted, all Tanzanians—from ministers to local government leaders, from public to private sectors—have been talking and singing industrialisation. “This is the only time the entire Tanzanian community is talking and singing about single policy—Tanzania ya Viwanda (industrialised Tanzania),” Mr Msuya stressed, reminding wananchi of similar period when the whole country sang one song, during independence in 1961. He said President Magufuli has ensured that regional commissioners in their respective areas meet with people to see what could be done to industrialise their regions. “If you leave the industrialisation drive like that it will remain [buried] in the government books and be a useless policy,” he said, recounting his era when the first-phase government focused on single policy—building the TAZARA railway. He said President Magufuli has tasked his lieutenants—regional commissioners (RCs) and district commissioners (DCs)—to communicate with members of the public to push forward the industrialisation agenda. “If it (industrialisation agenda) is maintained, though I know there are some difficulties and it cannot sail through smoothly, we are likely to make a great stride,” argued the ex-premier. According to Mr Msuya, Dr Magufuli also went another mile to construct enabling infrastructures like railways, roads and energy to support industrialisation policy. He said the head of state focused on what ‘we call—things that matter’ to drive the industrialisation agenda. “You need to collect taxes and stop pilferages, money going to someone pockets, ghost workers and disappearance of Dar port containers,” he explained. Mr Msuya said during his time as finance minister and later prime minister, inter-ministerial meetings were conducted without allowances although they were later introduced. He described the allowances as pilferage of the country’s resources, commending President Magufuli for removing the pays to instil financial discipline and save public moneys for development projects. “He [President Magufuli] wants to maximise revenues and allocate funds to priority areas for the betterment of the nation, not individuals,” he stressed.