THE Emergency Medical Services (EMS), guidelines were launched yesterday to ensure a more standardized approach to the practice of pre-hospital patient care. The guidelines are not intended to determine local scope of practice, but rather, to provide a resource to pre-hospital clinical practice, maximize patient care and safety. The pre-hospital guidelines can be presented or adapted for use on a regional or local level to enhance patient care and benchmark performance of EMS practice. Assistant Director of Emergency Preparedness and Response Section in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Elias Kwesi, said the guidelines were intended to be a core set of guidelines, at least initially, with the goal of adding more guidelines in the future. Speaking during the closing of the EMS training to hospital care providers in Dar es Salaam yesterday, he said the purpose of emergency medical care is to stabilize patients who have a life threatening or limb-threatening injury or illness. In contrast to preventive medicine or primary care, emergency medical care focuses on the provision of immediate or urgent medical interventions. “It includes two major components; Medical decision-making and the actions necessary to prevent unnecessary deaths or disability because of time-critical health problems, irrespective of the patient’s age, gender, location or condition, “ he noted. Dr Kwesi said the W orld Bank was supporting Tanzania to develop a pilot EMS along the southern corridor from Dar es Salaam to Ruaha-Morogoro, as part of Trauma Care Sub-component of the Southern Africa Trade and Transport Facilitation Project (SATTFP). He said under the project rehabilitation of seven health centres including Kimara, Tumbi, Chalinze, Mikese, Morogoro, Mikumi Mbuyuni was ongoing. The Head, department of Emergency Medicine at Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Science (MUHAS), Dr Hendry Sawe, said the training commenced in November 2018 that involved health providers from various areas of the project. He said more than 225 health providers were trained, including 62 basic ambulance providers, 104 paramedics attendants, 25 medical call centre dispatchers, 287 community first aiders and 41 trainers. Dr Sawe said trained and managed medical personnel in hospitals across the country will be appropriately equipped to help millions of people impacted by accidents and medical emergencies. The seven dispatch centers will be crucial to the effective and efficient use of EMS resources and their core element will be a common computer-aided dispatch and communications system capable of monitoring the distribution and availability of resources in order to respond to emergencies rapidly and effectively.