ASSOCIATION of Friends of Africa (TADD), a Turkish civil society organization founded in 2015 in Istanbul, has expressed its commitment to increase cooperation in the fields of education, health and economy between Turkey and African countries. An official from Turkish Embassy in Tanzania, Mr Nihat Cumhur said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that one of the actions being taken by TADD is to conduct training aimed at creating awareness about Africa in Turkey. In the aspect of heath, Mr Cumhur said TADD has organized a voluntary project named ‘Oral and Dental Health’ supported by Turkish Embassy and TİKA (Turkish Coordination and Cooperation Agency). The awareness training that started on 14 July this year and set to end tomorrow in Morogoro and Dar es Salaam involves a group that comprises ten people, including seven specialist dentists, a nurse, dental technician and a lawyer. During the first week of the programme, TADD conducted several dental treatments and examinations at the Mchikichini Primary School located in Morogoro region in collaboration with the School of Dentistry at Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS). As a result of the exercise in Morogoro, 2000 dental examinations and 400 dental treatments were accomplished in five days alongside 1000 oral and dental health trainings for primary school students. Moreover, TADD distributed toothpastes and toothbrushes to local residents participating in dental and oral health training programmes. Within the scope of the ‘Experience Share Program’ by the TİKA, another team consisting of 15 volunteer students from faculties of dentistry and medicine from Turkey, joined the TADD Team in Morogoro and performed oral and dental health screening of local people in Morogoro region who don’t have quick access to health services. Cumhur said that in their second week, TADD organized several theoretical and applied trainings aimed at sharing medical experiences of Turkish dentists with post-graduate dentists in Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences. “The purpose of these trainings is to increase the capacity and know-how of post-graduates in the fields of regenerative endodontic treatment, implantology and dental radiology,” he said. Furthermore, Cumhur said that alongside the aforementioned training programmes, TADD also visited Ashura Orphanage founded by Ashura Foundation and supported by Turkish Embassy in Dar es Salaam. The group conducted dental treatment and examination in the neighborhood of Ashura Orphanage in Vingunguti. Turkish Ambassador to Tanzania, Ali Davutoglu and his wife Yesim Meco Davutoglu who is the honorary president of the orphanage also participated in the event. Ambassador of Tanzania to Turkey, Prof Elizabeth Kiondo was also present. 