MORE than 500 cashew industry stakeholders are expected to attend the African Cashew Alliance (ACA) annual conference to be held from 7 to 9 November in Dar es Salaam. The international cashew nut conference aimed to analyse the recent market dynamic and the role of both public and private stakeholders in addressing the emerging issues. Over the years, the ACA annual cashew conference has been Africans largest cashew event, bringing together a diverse array of cashew industry stakeholder from across the globe. Addressing press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday, ACA Managing Director Mr Ernest Mintah said that the 13th annual conference serves as a unique opportunity for African and international stakeholders to converge and discuss the African cashew industry, which grows over 56 per cent of the world cashew supply. According to him, Africa is the largest regional producer and of vital importance to a healthy and productive global value chain, saying Tanzania is one of the largest producer of the cashew in Africa. “In fact, in the future of the African cashew sector and the continued growth of the cashew sector and economy of Tanzania, the board and management of ACA in consultation with the private sector have chosen Tanzania as the host for the 2019 edition of its annual cashew conference,” he said. He said that in the three day, farmers, traders, processors, exporters, government officials, equipment manufacturers and services provides will convene to network and discuss the industry’s trend, opportunities and challenges of the sector. For his part, Dr Steven Ngairo from the ministry of Agriculture said that the theme of this year’s conference is ‘Fostering Synergies, Influencing Market Dynamics’. He said that all cashew stakeholders will take part in the conference with the aim of ensuring African cashew industry remains a visible contributor within the sector. “We believe that the conference will be an opportunity in increasing investors. Tanzania as the second largest producer of cashew in Africa, we hope various stakeholders will be influenced to invest in the sector,” he explained. Cashew Board of Tanzania Acting Managing Director Mr Francis Alfred said that Tanzania successfully hosted the ACA annual cashew conference for the first time in 2008 and now after ten years it is finally returning to the country. He said the annual cashew conference is held in partnership with the Tanzania governmental agencies, the ministry of Agriculture and CBT and the Tanzania Investment Centre.