RURAL Energy Agency (REA), has said all rural households in the country will be connected with quality and reliable electricity by 2030. REA Chairman, Julius Kalolo said at the 43rd edition of the Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF), that by the year 2025, it is expected that 75 per cent of the rural households will be connected to electricity. “We are on the right track to ensure that the project intended to connect all rural households with reliable and quality energy is achieved within the set targets,” Mr Kalolo said. He urged rural people where REA projects are implemented to make sure the electricity infrastructures are conserved for the benefit of the present and future generation. He also urged citizens residing in areas where the electricity infrastructures pass through to be patriotic and allow smooth implementation because they have huge benefits to all. “The government is spending massive resources to ensure all rural population are connected to reliable electricity at very low cost,” he noted. REA Acting Director General, Amos Maganga said the government has spent more than 2.3tri/-since when rural electrification project started to be implemented some 10 years ago. Before REA started the grand project of rural electrification, only 506 villages equal to 2.0 per cent were connected out of 12,268 villages in the country. “As of to-date 7,227 villages out of 12,268 villages are already connected with reliable electricity countrywide,” He said. A survey carried by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), in 2016, shows that 49.5 per cent of the villages in the country have been electrified. Due to REA electrification projects, over 4,300 primary and secondary schools in the rural areas are connected to electricity as of now with more than 3,600 dispensaries across the country also electrified. Mr Maganga said further that more than 220 water pumps connected to electricity in various rural areas guarantee them reliable water supply. Moreover, over 5,000 centers including restaurants, bars, groceries, saloon, welding activities and many others also connected. He said also some 1,200 churches and mosques are connected with electricity thus giving rural people opportunity worship at all time.