…March to Kagame Cup semis... REIGNING Kagame Cup champions Azam FC knocked out TP Mazembe from DR Congo, with a 2-1 win in the quarter-final match at the Kigali Stadium in Rwanda yesterday. Azam came from behind to win the match and sail to the semifinal stage of the annual tournament as they seek to win the third straight title. The ‘ice cream makers’ become the first Tanzanian team to get victory over the Congolese giants, who have always been a dominant side against the likes of Simba and Young Africans. However, Mazembe fielded most of a second string players. The game started at a slow pace as both sides looked cautious. In the 19th minute, TP Mazembe thought they had scored from a set piece but match referee ruled it out for an offside. However, just two minutes later, Ipamy Giovani headed home the opener for TP Mazembe. The winger perfectly beat Ghanaian goalkeeper Razack Abarola at the near post, connecting home a deep cross in from the left side. Azam pulled level in the 27th minute through Iddi Selemani, who powered home a drop ball from a defender, who cleared an initial set piece well taken by left wing back Bruce Kangwa. It was the second goal of the campaign for Selemani, who joined Azam at the close of the season from Mbeya City. Azam netted the second in the 69th minute, when Obrey Chirwa headed past goalkeeper, Bakula Ulonde as he reached quickly to a cross in from Abdul Haji. To reach the last eight, Azam recorded a goalless draw against Kenyan side Bandari FC last Friday, which consequently saw the latter being eliminated from the tournament. Azam won one match (1-0) against Mukura Victory Sports, lost 1-0 to Kampala City and drew their third battle against Bandari FC to book their slot into the last eight. On the other hand, Mazembe triumphed in two games of their three matches, losing 1-0 to Rayon Sports before registering two back to back wins against KMC (1-0) and a massive 6-1 thrashing of Atlabara FC. In the second quarter-final clash, Rwanda side, Rayon Sports were due to take on Ugandan league champions KCCA at same venue late yesterday. The second quarter-final round match day will be played today with three-time champions APR FC face Zambian side Green Eagles. Kenyan side Gor Mahia FC face Zanzibar’s KMKM at 13:00, while Djibouti side AS Ports face DR Congolese side AS Maniema Union at 15:30. Meanwhile, after being eliminated from the CECAFA Kagame Cup, which is going on in Kigali Rwanda, KMC leadership has shifted focus in preparing for the Mainland Premier League and CAF Confederation Cup. KMC, who were making their debut in Kagame Cup, failed to make it to the quarterfinal stage of the annual tournament despite managing to collect four points in group A. They lost 1-0 in their opening group to Congolese giants TP Mazembe, battled to a 1-1 draw with Atlabara and registered a shock 1-0 victory over Rayon Sports of Rwanda in their final group match played on Saturday at Stade de Kigali. A solitary goal scored by Hassan Kabunda earned KMC their maiden victory in the tournament, as they bowed out with four points. KMC Media and Communication Officer, Anwar Binde said the Kagame cup competition was stiff, saying their team has picked important lessons and will come back stronger next time. “It was a great opportunity for us to feature in the tournament for the first time in our history. Our players gave their all and we are happy with the team’s performance despite the fact that we are still trying to get the team’s chemistry with the arrival of some new faces,” he said. “The team will set pre-season camp in Dar es Salaam and we are planning to play few build up matches in readiness for the coming season,” he said. The top flight league is due to kick off on August 23rd this year.