NMB Bank has allocated over 500bn/- to support different initiatives that seek to support implementation of the government spearheaded industrialisation agenda. The money is expected to support agriculture for a period of five years, effective last year. This is the second time the bank is setting aside similar amount, after the bank apportioned 500bn/- in 2015 to support the sector. Besides supporting industrialisation, the bank has also expressed its resolve to serve Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), which are scattered in different local government authorities (LGAs) across the country, with over 600bn/- currently revolving in their businesses. Briefing Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa during his tour of NMB Mwanza branch shortly before he opened the Association of Local Authorities of Tanzania’s (ALAT) 35thAnnual General Meeting here yesterday, NMB Chief of Retail Banking Filbert Mponzi said the bank targets to reach more SMEs with different financial solutions based on their specific needs. “NMB Bank is keen to dish out more funds to almost all strategic economic areas like SMEs and industrialisation drive, with agricultural investments topping the list,” he said. He said so far, over 700bn/- has been invested in the agricultural sector, with the bank already disbursing 40bn/- monthly to different groups teaming up for small and medium scale agricultural undertakings. The premier applauded NMB bank for supporting the government in revenue collections, which have started to show impressive results in the government, especially local government. “This is our bank and we have to do business with our own bank,” said Mr Majaliwa. Acknowledging NMB support, ALAT members, including Njombe District Executive Director Ally Juma Ally and his Chato counterpart Eliud Mwaiteleke said NMB financial services have positive economic advantages in the national economy. Mr Ally said installed revenue collection systems through NMB have benefitted his local authority, which envisages 130 per cent revenue collection from the range of 80 to 90 per cent recorded in the past years. He said as a result of improved payment systems, other tickle down advantages could also be noted on different areas, including better recovery of staff loans and levies. Mr Mwaiteleke said the impact of financial services from banks like NMB, which boast of wide branch network coverage were increasingly noticed, citing the bank’s recent 30m/- support for education and health sectors. He said Chato District has recently recorded improved access to financial services, with over 115 villages served by NMB agents, stimulating economic development, individually and collectively.