THE recent commemoration of African Union Anti-Corruption Day was a valuable moment for our nation, Africa and the world. It was the day designated to recognise the vast progress and the need to persistently reflect on approaches to end corruption on the continent. Uniquely important for me and obviously for the government of Tanzania is the fact that the event took place at home - in Dodoma Tanzania, a new capital city, an emerging economic investment avenue, and today a place of political and symbolic importance. This important historical event for Africa and Tanzania was well co-organised by the African Union Advisory Board on Corruption (AUABC) and our national Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) under the leadership of the Executive Secretary, Madame Charity Hanene Nchimunya and Director General, CP Diwani Athumani, respectively. It is good to learn that other member states joined forces in commemorating the day as AUABC and PCCB did here in Dodoma with the private sector, non-governmental and civil society organisations, the media and citizens joining effort to ensure that all goes well. The event in Dodoma was fruitful. Yes, successful not because of the presence of high profile government dignitaries, but because of the unique African nature of participatory anti-corruption initiative, the discussions and articulation around this years’ theme: “Towards a Common African Position on Asset Recovery.” The commemoration emphasis was clear. It focused on the dangers of the growing illicit financial flows from Africa, recovery of stolen and illicit assets as a developmental issue impacting the achievement of Africa’s Agenda 2063 and sustainable development goals. I wish to make two observations regarding this day. First is the fitting honour for Tanzania to be the home of this years’ Africa Anti-Corruption Day. I use the word fitting because, in my view and from what I hear, read and research on, Tanzania is now emerging as moving into the group of successful anti-corruption countries on the continent. And the progress is real. I know the war is not over yet, but Tanzania is making remarkable inroads to root out corruption. Though it may not be easy for many to note what I believe to be a significant change, appreciate progress and therefore ensure that the achieved change is made sustainable, but the reality is that we are, as a nation, moving steadily to ensuring that the country becomes corruption free. Interestingly, the world is already looking at us with a smile much more now than in the past, and the voice of super powers, today affirms on our headway. For example, of recent, some have stood up and very clearly declared their position that they treasure our efforts to improve the management of our public finance, make our procurement system more transparent and the government determinations to identify corruption red flags. This should encourage us to press on. Despite the fact that more still needs to be done, one cannot deny the strides we have made over these past few years. This we boldly submit because a review of the performance of Tanzania’s Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau from sources like the government, donor agencies, academicians and think tanks, local and international NGOs and the media also clearly indicate that Hon Diwani and his team’s work is bearing fruit. Likewise, their progress is even more important because it goes hand in hand with the new impetus characterised by the new leadership. Here I am reflecting on the fact that since coming to power in 2015, President John Magufuli has waged war on corruption and waste in government, and PCCB not only continues to efficiently support the implementation of the convention and the fight against corruption, but supports well the 5th government initiatives, among other things to eliminate fictitious or fraudulent civil servants and positions and potentially save trillions of money, to mention a few. Secondly, I am of the opinion that an honest discussion at the commemoration day led by Hon Diwani Athumani on strides and challenges of fighting corruption in the country was timely and important, especially as Tanzania and Africa at large are now taking a new route by opening an anti-corruption special door, where engaging credible youth in anti-corruption has now been taken as critical to achieving progress and sustainable change. I believe the new focus on youth is crucial. And appealing to them, especially the credible youth to be part of the fight is, in my view, key to a longer-term and sustainable efforts to combat corruption in Tanzania and Africa. And I will justify my proposition as to why building on the shoulders of credible young people is vital. I begin with Benjamin Disraeli, the former British Prime Minister’s admission; the youth of a nation are the trustees of posterity. And in a similar tone, Mary Mcleod Bethune, argues; we have a powerful potential in our youth, and we must have the courage to change old ideas and practices so that we may direct their power toward good ends. These submissions are important because they remind us of, yet another proposal made by Pearl S. Buck, that the young do not know enough to be prudent, and therefore they attempt the impossible, and achieve it, generation after generation. By and large, this goes and is in line with the Africa Agenda 2013, which stipulates voices of African people expressed through their aspirations for the future. It simply wants to see Africa whose development is people-driven, especially relying on the potential offered, in our case, by its youth. So, well done PCCB and AUABC, for organising such a great event here in Dodoma. Keep moving. As you continue to make an appeal that Tanzania and Africa’s unity is critical in demanding the recovery and return of stolen assets, your avowal that Africa needs all her assets back, and your sincere call for accountability and transparency in the utilization of returned assets is critical, do remember also to engage and tap the hidden power among the youth. And on a final note, as you engage young people, also assist them to come out of the massive problems they are currently facing across the continent. Remember and consider their values, attitudes and perceptions. Do also remember Aristotle’s wisdom: youth is easily deceived because it is quick to hope. Cheers!