KENYA’S Harambee Stars Head Coach Sebastien Migne has omitted Young Africans bound goalkeeper Faruk Shikhalo and Simba’s new arrival Francis Kahata from the 24-member squad set to face Taifa Stars. Taifa Stars will host Harambee Stars on July 28th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, as the neigbouring nations go head to head in the African Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifying game which strictly features home based players. Shikhalo has secured deal to join Yanga while his compatriot Kahata has joined Simba respectively, thereby making the two stars to earn disqualification for the CHAN contest. Both Shikhalo and Kahata were included in the team’s provisional squad which was picked in May. The former has since been replaced by Ulinzi Stars goalkeeper James Saruni, who will compete for the starting role with John Oyemba, who was Kenya’s third choice keeper at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt. According to Coach Migne, the selected squad will enter in camp on July 19th ahead of the giant clash whose second leg will be played at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi on August 4th this year. Also included in the team are Philemon Otieno, Joash Onyango, Bernard Ochieng, Dennis Odhiambo, John Avire and Paul Were who were all in Kenya’s squad at the Cup of Nations. In a related development, Cliff Nyakeya has also been dropped from the current Harambee Stars squad as he has joined Egypt’s Al Masry hence rendering himself unfit to feature for the CHAN tournament. The game will refresh AFCON wounds sustained by Taifa Stars as they suffered a disappointing 3-2 defeat in their group C match hence an opportunity to avenge the previous recorded downfall. It was the only victory for Kenya as they went down 2-0 to Algeria and 3-0 to Senegal hence missing the chance to go to the last 16. However, this time around, the battle will be difference bearing in mind that no professional players will be used unlike during the previous encounter in Egypt whereby Mbwana Samatta and Victor Wanyama, who trade in Europe, captained their two respective sides. The full squad of Kenya is as follows: Goalkeepers: John Oyemba (Kariobangi Sharks), James Saruni (Ulinzi Stars). Defenders: Philemon Otieno (Gor Mahia), Yusuf Mainge (KCB), Joash Onyango (Gor Mahia), Benard Ochieng (Vihiga United), Mike Kibwage (KCB), Andrew Juma (Mathare United), David Owino (Mathare United) Midfielders: Dennis Odhiambo (Sofapaka), Teddy Osok (Wazito), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia), Duke Abuya (Kariobangi Sharks), Patillah Omoto (Kariobangi Sharks), Paul Were (AFC Leopards), Samuel Onyango (Gor Mahia), Roy Okal (Mathare United), Whyvone Isuza (AFC Leopards) Forwards: John Avire (Sofapaka), Musa Masika (Wazito), Nicholas Kipkirui (Gor Mahia), Sydney Lokale (Kariobangi Sharks), Piston Mutamba (Wazito), Enosh Ochieng (Ulinzi Stars).