PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa (pictured) has invited Egyptian investors to explore investment in Tanzania, saying the East Africa’s largest nation is endowed with immense natural resources. The premier who is here for a three-day official visit, assured the Egyptian business community of Tanzania’s political stability and strategic geographical location, citing potential investment areas as agriculture, agroprocessing, infrastructure, tourism, fishing and mining. He informed the business meeting delegates that his visit to the country aims at bolstering historic economic and diplomatic ties, which the two nations have enjoyed through exploration of new avenues for trade and investment. Mr Majaliwa told the prospective investors that Tanzania enjoys strategic geographical location and vast market for goods and services not only with the country but also in the East African Community (EAC) and Southern African Development Community (SADC). He explained further that the country enjoys favourable investment and business environment, noting further that the government is as well working to further improve the business climate through a blueprint seeking to harmonise the regulatory frameworks. “Implementation of the blueprint intends to reduce or eliminate levies, charges and fees, which have been identified as impediment to the business environment,” he explained. The levies and fees are those charged by separate government institutions like Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) and the Government Chemist Laboratory Authority (GCLA). The premier told the potential investors and businesspersons that the investment report by the World Bank in 2018 showed that Tanzania continues leading in Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) in the East African region, having received 1.2 billion US dollars in FDIs in 2017. “Our economy is expected to grow at 7.1 per cent this year from the seven per cent growth last year,” he stated. Mr Majaliwa encouraged the Egyptians to invest in Tanzania’s agriculture sector, which boasts of 44 million hectares of arable land in addition to 29.4 million hectares of land suitable for irrigation farming. Agro processing is as well another area of potential investment, he said. Tanzania produces 220,000 tonnes of cashew nuts, 120,000 tonnes of tobacco, 300,000 tonnes of cotton and over 120,000 tonnes of coffee, qualifying the country as the most suitable destination for investors in value addition on agricultural produce. The premier further encouraged the Egyptian investors in the fishing sector to explore business opportunities, saying Tanzania experiences a shortage of 400,000 tonnes of fish, annually. And, given the fact that Tanzania is among the leading countries with large numbers of livestock, he asked the Egyptians to consider investing in meat and leather processing as well as value addition to related products. Tanzania is also a gateway for six landlocked countries which use Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mtwara ports for imports and exports of their products. The countries are Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Zambia and Malawi, said the premier. He assured the host country that the Tanzanian government is determined to create conducive business and investment environment to enable the country to achieve middle-income economy by 2025.