RESIDENTS in almost all parts of Dar es Salaam and Coast regions will access safe and clean water by next year following signing of six agreements worth 114bn/- for implementing six water projects. The projects, which would include laying of pipes, constructing water wells and tanks, would benefit 1.9 million people and industries, and boost water availability from the current 85 per cent to 95 per cent by 2020. They would also address the outbreak of cholera since the use of shallow water wells has been one of the major sources of cholera outbreaks in the regions. “I believe that after implementation of these projects, by 2020, we will have reached 95 per cent of the population accessing clean and safe water in the city of Dar es Salaam,” Water Minister Prof Makame Mbarawa stated yesterday as he witnessed the signing of the deals. The Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA) signed agreements with different contactors and industries for supplying materials for projects construction. “After the signing, you should immediately start working because Tanzanians have been waiting for a long time,” Prof Mbarawa directed. Shedding light on the projects, DAWASA Chief Executive of Officer Cyprian Luhemeja, said the projects emerged from Magufuli over water scarcity in the country. When he inaugurated the National Assembly after he was sworn in as the Fifth Phase President, Dr Magufuli expressed dismay over water shortage facing citizens in various parts of the country. Mr Luhemeja said since Dr Magufuli ascended to the presidency in 2015 water availability in the city of Dar es Salaam was 68 per cent, the figure had increased up to the current 85 per cent. During the same period the DAWASA has increased its monthly revenue collections from 3.2bn/- to 11.2bn/-. During the last financial year, the authority collected a total of 135bn/- which is 95 per cent of targeted revenue collec-tion. “For the past four years since the Fifth Phase government came to power. the authority has not increased water tariffs and will not do so during this presidential term,” Mr Luhemeja stated. He said 40bn/- of the 114bn/- total project costs will come from DAWASA’s own source of funds. Among its features will include constructing tanks and lying pipes from the Ubungo area-Mbezi- Coast Region stretch. The second project worth 12bn/- worth will be the laying of a 60-km pipe from Mlandizi to Chalinze which is expected to benefit 120,000 people. The third project (7.6bn/-)will facilitate water flow from Kisarawe in Coast Region to Pugu and Ukonga in Dar es Salaam . Others will be implemented at Mkuranga and constructing water wells in Kigamboni District. Chairman of Dawasa board of directors, Gen (rtd) Davis Mwamunyange, said the implementation of the projects was part of initiatives to relieve women from long treks in searching for water. However, he said DAWASA still faced a challenge of tackling overbilling of customers. District Commissioners from the two regions of Dar es Salaam and Coast where the projects will be implemented spoke on behalf of the Regional Commissioners at the events. Kibaha District Commissioner Assumpter Mshama said the projects were important to the region which has many industries. She said many investors had responded well to government’s call to invest in industries in the region, but water shortage had been affecting production.