...Govt seeks to supply 300 villages with lake water OVER 300 villages will be supplied with water from three major lakes—Victoria, Nyasa and Tanganyika—under multi-billion shilling projects scheduled to take off in the 2020/2021 fiscal year. In his media briefing at the end of his official tour of Geita region over the weekend, Deputy Minister for Water Jumaa Aweso said the ambitious projects aim at ensuring water in the country’s major lakes and rivers are well utilised. According to Mr Aweso, the new approach will ensure reliable water supply to wananchi surrounding the lakes and rivers but also relieve the government from massive losses through digging of water wells that sometimes turn helpless or white elephants. “We want to get rid of ineffective water wells that are built at the cost of taxpayers but remain ineffective. Alternatively, the money will be used to supply wananchi with water directly from the lakes and provide the lasting solution to the water woes facing many villages,” he said. The deputy minister said feasibility studies for the projects might be completed between September and December, this year ready for project execution by mainly domestic experts. He also announced implementation of another 500 million US dollar (about 1.2tri/- ) project, which will guarantee reliable supply of water and sanitation services to 28 towns in the country, effective this fiscal year. Mr Aweso said all projects are earmarked for professional implementation, using highly qualified contractors subjected to strict due diligence. “From now on, we will carry out strict due diligence to contractors vying for all announced water projects to get rid of ghost and unqualified bidders… this is to ensure that no fake contractor can find way into any tendering process and get awarded any tender,” he said. On the anticipated performance of the Rural Water and Sanitation Authority (RUWASA), the deputy minister remained confident that it will meet the public expectations, challenging it to emulate other bodies like Rural Energy Agency (REA) Just like REA, which is ensuring that power is supplied to all villages, RUWASA will be tasked to supply water to all rural dwellers by ensuring that all villages have access to reliable water services. Mr Aweso said the newly formed authority has been well designed and manned with competent engineers to oversee speedy implementation of water projects in all 185 districts countrywide, with other 67 engineers having been flushed out over various allegations. In ensuring local experts are used effectively, a special design section within RUWASA has been formed to scrutinise the projects for execution using ‘force account’. The deputy minister further explained that the merging of former Dam Construction Agency with RUWASA will tame fund divergence and maintain accountability, among others. On average, according to Geita Urban Water and Sanitation Authority (GEUWASA), Geita town with 235,516 people gets clean water by 55 per cent, with different old and new water projects under implementation. GEUWASA Managing Director Engineer Frank Changawa said that new water infrastructure is underway, including treatment plant that will treat 56 million litres daily and 20 million litre capacity water storage tank.