TANZANIA Football Federation (TFF) has confirmed sacking of Taifa Stars Head Coach following the team’s dismal performance in the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Under Amunike tutelage Taifa Stars lost all their three group stage matches. They began their campaign with a 2-0 loss to Senegal, then 3-2 loss to Kenya and ended with voluminous 3-0 defeat at the hands of Algeria. The federation’s press report said the contract with the Nigerian football legend was terminated three months prior to its expiry. TFF, however didn’t mention the Amunike’s heir, but promised to unveil him soon. The report said the new caretaker will be assigned to lead the team that will compete for a ticket to play in African Championship of Nations(CHAN) whose official kick off is late this month. “The interim coaches to lead Taifa Stars will be unveiled after the executive committee’s emergency meeting on July 11 in Dar es Salaam,” said the statement. Under Amunike Taifa Stars have played 10 matches, they have won two, drew two and lost six of them. Earlier on Saturday, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe had told reporters at Protea Court Yard that he had confidence in coach Amunike, saying the Nigerian legend would deliver if given time. Amunike, whose contractual agreement with TFF was to take the team to 2019 AFCON in Egypt, succeeded in doing it despite losing all the three matches in the group stages. However, in his ten matches at the helm of Stars, Amunike won two games, drew two matches and lost six encounters. Egypt Head Coach Javier Aguirre was the first casualty of the Africa Cup of Nations as he was sacked just hours after the hosts were bundled out of the tournament by South Africa in the round of 16. Hosts Egypt lost 1-0 to an 85th minute goal from Thembinkosi Lorch on Saturday at the end of a lacklustre display in which their talisman Mohamed Salah looked out of sorts and they produced few goalscoring chances. Egypt Football Association president Hany Abo Rida announced the firing of the Mexican coach, and his own resignation, less than three hours after the game as a stunned host nation digested the defeat. Abo Rida also called on his board members to step down, calling his resignation a “moral obligation, although the football association had given the national team full material and moral support”. Just 48 hours after leading Uganda to the knock out stages of the Total 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, Sebastien Desabre has ended his reign as Uganda Cranes coach. But that came after the Cranes lost 1-0 to Senegal in the best of 16 match. The news was confirmed by Fufa in a statement released on the website yesterday. “On the 6th of July 2019, both FUFA and National Team Head coach of the Uganda Cranes Desabre Sebastien Serge Louis mutually agreed to terminate the contract between the two parties….,” reads part of the statement. There are reports that the French is courted by Al Ahly, the biggest club in Egypt.