KISUTU Resident Magistrate’s Court yesterday issued an arrest warrant for five foreigners alleged to have links with abduction of Tanzanian billionaire and industrialist Mohamed Dewji, MO. Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi issued the warrant when the case, in which the foreigners, one South African and four Mozambicans are linked, came for mention. He took into consideration a request by the prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon. The trial attorney told the court that the foreigners will be joined into the trial facing a Tanzanian taxi driver Mousa Hamis Twaleb, upon their arrest. The prosecutor named them as South African Phila Tshabalala, alias Mr Phila, and Mozambicans Henrique Alberto Simbine, Daniel Bernardo Manchice, Isaac Jaime Tomo and Zacarious Obasando Junior. The prosecution alleges that on diverse dates between May 1 and October 10, 2018 at various places in Dar es Salaam city in Tanzania and Johannesburg in South Africa, knowingly, the accused furnished assistance in the conduct of affairs of a criminal racket. It is alleged that the accused had the intent of either to reap profit or other benefit from the act. The court heard that on October 11, 2018 at Collosseum Hotel within Kinondoni Municipality, jointly and together with other people not in court, the accused kidnapped MO. The prosecution told the court that the accused committed the offence with intent to cause the prominent businessman to be secretly and wrongfully confined. Twaleb was charged alone with offence of money laundering, which is alleged to have been committed on July 10, 2018 at Mbezi Beach area. It is alleged that the accused acquired 8m/- while at the time of receipt he knew that the money was proceed of a predicate offence of participating in an organised group and racketeering. The police are in records announcing that MO, the 17th richest and youngest billionaire in Africa, was abducted by unknown armed people as he attended fitness session at the Colosseum Hotel and Fitness Club in Dar es Salaam. Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander Lazaro Mambosasa was quoted as saying that the abduction of the famous businessman was committed at around 5am. According to him, the abductors, two of them white, arrived at the scene in a Toyota Surf vehicle. The police commander explained further that before escaping with the billionaire who served as Singida Urban MP on the ruling CCM ticket between 2005 and 2015, the kidnappers fired shots on air. Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda was also quoted as saying that the 43-year old business mogul had no security guards and had personally driven to the gym. “And, this was his normal practice because he was used to peace, although he is rich enough to hire body guards,” the RC explained. About ten days later, MO, Mohammed Enterprises Tanzania Limited (METL) the Chief Executive Officer whose group company controls several subsidiaries in beverages, edible oils, flour milling and textile manufacturing and soaps, among other commercial activities, was freed. Dewji took to his Mo Dewji Foundation Twitter to confirm his release on October 20, 2019 saying, “I thank Allah that I have returned home safely. I thank all my fellow Tanzanians and everyone around the world for their prayers.” “I thank the authorities of Tanzania, including the police for working for my safe return,” he added. The police are on record to have said the businessman was dumped near the exclusive Gymkhana sports club where he was found in healthy physical condition. The police said they “suspect the abductors are South Africans because they were communicating in one of the vernacular from that country.” After dumping him, the abductors unsuccessfully tried to burn the car. The police recovered an AK-47 assault rifle, two pistols and several rounds of ammunition.