TANZANIA youth team lost 78-52 to Mozambique in their second Africa U-16 Women basketball match at Amahoro Stadium court in Kigali Rwanda. The gallant Tanzanian girls lost their composure the final quarters. The victory has placed Mozambique at the top of group A after winning two matches. Prior to the encounter with Tanzania, Mozambique lost 76-54 to Angola in their group’s opening match while Tanzania defeated hosts Rwanda 42-36 at the same venue. It was the first win for Mozambique’s U16 female basketball team after loss to Angola in their opener at the ‘Amahoro stadium in Kigali. Defending champions Mali defeated Uganda 108-32 to boost their campaign to defend their title for a record-extending sixth time. Angola, who defeated hosts Rwanda 68-49 in their second group stage game, are leading the table without a loss. Rwanda, who were expected to play their last group match late yesterday, were winless at the bottom of the table. Tanzania and Mozambique have tied at the second with one win and a loss. During opening match held at Amahoro National Stadium court in Kigali, Rwanda on Sunday, Tanzanian girls took control of the game to beat the hosts in all departments. The third edition of the championship has brought together Africa top teams pooled into two groups, is set to wind up on August 3 this year. The Tanzanian team is pooled in Group A along with hosts Rwanda, Angola and Mozambique while Group B consists of Mali, Egypt, South Africa and Uganda. National girl’s squad comprises Stella Kisoki, Naurei Ngimasirwa, Ndajiri Laizer, Nelious Mbugeni, Anna Mollel, Catherine Mollel, Paulina William, Husna Mwegelo, Happy Seuri, Rachel Masinde, Salome Kasongi and Sesilia Mollel. The team was scheduled to be in action again late yesterday by facing Angola their third match. Tanzania qualified for the continental level competition after finishing second in the recently ended Under-16 Boys’ and Girls’ FIBA AfroBasket Zone V Championship also held in Rwanda. The Africa level competition is serving as qualifier for FIBA U-17 World Championship for Women 2020 which Tanzania looks for its ticket.