SOME Southern African Research and Documentation Centre (SARDC), delegates deliberately met in Butiama recently purposely to honour the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, as its Founding patron 20 years since his passing away. Leading the team, SARDC Chairman, Prof Peter Katjavivi, who is also Namibia’s National Assembly Speaker, said that he felt honoured to lay a wreath on Mwalimu’s grave on behalf of the Board and plant a tree in recognition of his liberation work in the SADC bloc. It was particularly pleasing to celebrate Mwalimu’s life at his birthplace and final resting place, in Butiama. The Board also recognise the fundamental role Mwalimu played, in championing the policy of self-reliance in the field of socio-economic development. “Mwalimu was the Chairman of the Frontline States and one of the founding fathers of the Organisation of Africa Unity, which provided support towards the liberation of the continent also through the OAU Liberation Committee, based in Dar es Salaam”. I first came to Tanzania in December 1962 by dodging the Colonialist’s Immigration and Security as a leading representative of SWAPO and spent some years in the 1960s living and working in Dar es Salaam and Mbeya, because Tanzania was like a Mecca to us in SADC in the liberation struggle. When I crossed the border from Zambia (still Northern Rhodesia at that time), to Tanzania (then Tanganyika), I was overwhelmed by the fact that I had arrived in independent Africa with the national flag flying high with pride. Tanzania will always hold a special place in my heart, and in the hearts of all of us who were hosted by this country as we fought for our own independence. Mwalimu’s contribution to the cause of Africa’s freedom and self-determination deserves to be highlighted and passed on to the younger generations in Africa. As we talk of a shared past in our region, we need to inform our youth about where we have come from and cultivate their minds for our shared future! The work of SARDC is to ensure proper research and documentation of this shared past, as well as its work on current and future realities. At present, SARDC is working with UNESCO on a history project aimed at developing film and print knowledge materials on the liberation struggles of the region, aimed specifically at the younger generation. Tanzania’s role in hosting liberation movements from southern Africa will be suitably acknowledged in these materials. However, during this visit, I have retraced some of my footsteps, and have visited various places of historical significance to me and the regional liberation movements. These include the former offices of ZANU, PAC of South Africa, ANC, FRELIMO and MPLA. I also tried to visit the former office of SWAPO, though the building has been demolished, but we identified the place on Kaluta Street where it once stood. Dar es Salaam has grown tremendously and although I recognise some parts of the city, there are many changes that have transformed the city so that it is not always easy for me to find my way as I used to in the old days. The city holds so many memories for me and I had to pause and reflect on those days and accept that it was indeed remarkable, what we went through in those challenging years. We have achieved our freedom, and in Namibia we are coming up towards our 30th Anniversary of independence. The Speaker said that today’s challenges are to build systems, rules and strengthen regional integration to promote cooperation among the nations of our region. In order to fulfill the dream of unity that our founding fathers and mothers held so dear. With their host, Mwalimu’s son Madaraka Nyerere, who is also a member of the board, the delegates were taken around the family house and personal library, as well as the museum and the mausoleum, where Mwalimu Nyerere was laid to rest in October 1999. Prof Katjavivi said they also decided to have a meeting in Tanzania to connect with the country and the work and vision of the great son of Africa (Mwalimu Nyerere), with other SADC states to emulate his work and young generations to live to his expectations. As a regional think-tank with Board members from different SADC countries, the SARDC Board recognizes the peace and stability Nyerere championed for that is making the bloc to live in harmony. “Without peace, you can not plan, build a country and bloc. In chaos, common vision would not be achieved, I challenge Tanzanians especially the young generation to maintain the legacy he left behind,” he said. We acknowledge with great appreciation, Mwalimu’s determination to strengthen the unity of the continent in general and to defend Zambia. In particular, against the attempts by the white minority regime of Rhodesia to strangle, it during the course of the liberation struggle of the southern Africa sub-region. This is how the Tazara Railway was born, with help from our friends in China, to provide relief against the economic stranglehold on Zambia. The SARDC Board also visited the site of the OAU Liberation Committee, which is under renovation, and looks forward to visiting it again when it is open to the public as a heritage site. SARDC was established in 1985, during the time of the liberation struggle. Its first focus was to expose the attempts by the then South Africa regime to destabilise the southern African region. These include publications on water, energy, gender, infrastructure development, environment and climate, etc. that are regularly updated. It also works closely with the Southern African Development Community (SADC), and publishes SADC’s monthly newsletter Southern Africa Today, whose relationship is governed by a formal Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). The knowledge products provided by SARDC provide a basis for understanding regional realities. Thereby contribute towards policy development, regional cooperation, and the fostering of harmony between the people in the region. SARDC is based at Julius K. Nyerere House in Harare, Zimbabwe, and works throughout the 16 member states of SADC with members drawn from various countries and disciplines in the SADC region, and currently its Vice- Chairman is Arlindo Lopes from Mozambique. Is other objective is to improve the base of knowledge about economic, political, cultural and social developments in southern Africa, and their implications. By making information accessible to governments and policy makers, non-governmental organizations, the private sector, regional and international organisations, development agencies, parliaments, and the media.