A TOTAL of 32 teams are set to compete in the fourth edition of the Standard Chartered Cup tournament, set to be held in Dar es Salaam on August 24th this year. On Thursday, Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania Limited launched the fourth edition of the event, which is a 10 to 5 aside football tournament hinged on the Bank’s Liverpool FC sponsorship and it is running for the fourth time in Tanzania having successfully been launched in 2015. Speaking at press conference to launch the initiative, the Acting Chief Executive Officer of Standard Chartered Bank in Tanzania, Rayson Foya said preparations to stage the local event are in top gear. He said the tournament will bring together 32 teams comprising the Bank’s clients and it is scheduled to take place on August 24th this year. Last year, Tanzania Breweries Limited team won the local tournament. He said the Standard Chartered Group is the main sponsor of the Liverpool FC from 2010. Last year, the group renewed its sponsorship, taking it up to end of the 2022/2023 Premier League season. Foya said as part of its partnership with the Liverpool club, the Bank organizes the Standard Chartered Cup that provides the Bank’s key markets in Asia, Africa and Middle East, with a platform to actively engage football fans and also help them donate to charity in order to develop football. Now in its eighth year Foya said, the tournament has grown form strength to strength, with winners from all over the world, including Kenya (2016), South Korea (2015), Vietnam (2014), Thailand (2013) and Singapore (2012). The tournament has three phases–the local, regional and the finals which are held at Anfield-UK. Last year the bank in Tanzania, took a different approach which only incorporates the local tournament. The winner of the local tournament gets the grand prize of a trip to Anfield. The bank will use the same approach this year. “I am happy to inform you that we are maintaining the same approach as last year whereby we will only have the local tournament, and the winner out of the 32 teams will win the grand prize of a once in a life time ‘money can’t buy’ opportunity of visiting and watching a live match at an English Premier League football pitch –Anfield. This will ensure that our clients in Tanzania are guaranteed to enjoy the Liverpool experience should they win in country,” Foya said. Foya added that the bank was proud to be associated with Liverpool FC, citing that the two organisations share common values–a heritage of loyalty and commitment.