THE Youth in Rombo district, Kilimanjaro, have been challenged to use the economic opportunities which would rise as the results of the re-launching of the railway line services between the region and those of Arusha, Tanga and Dar es Salaam. The challenge was given on Sunday in Rombo district by the Deputy Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Mr Anthony Mavunde when launching the 2019 version of the Rombo District Commissioner’s Football Cup tournament. “The re-launching of the services has come with a reason and that is to enable Wananchi improve their economic well-being and this is your chance utilize it to the maximum. “There are many agricultural produces in Rombo and Kilimanjaro region as a whole, which you can transport using the railway line for cheap charges and therefore increase your profits,” he said. He advised the Rombo district administration authorities to register the participating teams in the tournament as economic youth groups so that they could benefit from government economic subsidies meant for the youth through the local government funds for the youth, women and the disabled. He hailed the Rombo DC Agnes Hokororo for introducing the tournament which he said would help unite the youth whereby he said the move would help in speeding up the district’s development processes through the youth. Speaking during the occasion, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Prof Adolf Mkenda, praised the youth within the district in the roles which they play in preserving Mount Kilimanjaro and Lake Chala, which are found within the district. He said the government was aware of their efforts in preserving Mt Kilimanjaro which he said including them been the very first persons to come to put out fire when it erupts at the mountain. “These two features are one of the main tourists’ attractions, by preserving and protecting them, you are showing your patriotism to the nation”, he said. Commenting on the newly established football tournament, the Rombo DC Agnes Hokororo, said priority would be given to educating soccer teams on the benefits of using the loans provided by the local government which is meant for the youth. “There are only 58 youth groups which have been registered by the Rombo district council, this is a small number compared to the big number of youths in the district. Upon that, only 47 of them have been subject to youth loan by the council, benefiting 6 90 persons, this is a very small number,” she noted.