PUNDITS in the country have mixed reactions on decision by national team, Taifa Stars key defenders, Kelvin Yondani and Erasto Nyoni to retire from international duties. The two defenders were part of the team that competed for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals currently ongoing in Egypt. Shortly after being eliminated from the group stages of the AFCON finals, early this week, Yondani (34) and Nyoni (31) announced to retire from the national team duty, to pave way for youthful players to step up. The two defenders have played for the national team for over a decade. However, on Thursday, Chairman of the Special Committee formed to steer support to the team’s campaign in the 2019 AFCON finals, who is also the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC), Paul Makonda, requested the duo to reconsider their decision of which, they agreed. Nyoni made his debut for Taifa Stars way back in 2007, hence playing for the last 12 years, while Yondani first donned the national team jersey in 2008 and since then, he has been regularly selected in the team. However, both players will continue to play their club football. Nyoni has just renewed a two-year deal to feature for Simba SC in the CAF Champions League, 2019/20202 Mainland Premier League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). On his side, Yondani is still very much part of Young Africans squad. He is expected to lead the team’s defence in the 2019/2020 Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and ASFC. Commenting on the development, former Taifa Stars player, Ally Mayay said the position they play (central defender) requires experienced players comparing with other positions in national team. “Both Yondani and Nyoni have been in a game for a long time. To remain with that consistence for almost seven to eight years is not a thing to be taken for granted and that is what makes them different from others,” Mayay said. He added: “It is easy to look for young blood to reinforce other positions like striking, midfield and full back departments but usually, central defenders are the ones who have experience after being in the game for long time. “This fact is valid around the world and that is why most good central defenders are those with much experience because it is a delicate position,” he said. Additionally, Mayay said retiring in football is not prohibited but as of now, the two defenders are still exceptional and very useful members in the national squad. He then called concerned authorities to start identifying young players to take over from their brothers when they announce to retire. However, several others argued that players are the ones capable of gauging their abilities, stating Yondani and Nyoni could be making right decision to announce their retirement . “It is not only for defenders but all departments of the team since it helps to identify potential replacement of players when they retire. For example, if Mbwana Samatta retires today, who can do the great job like him?" he asked. Taifa Stars returned home on Thursday following their early elimination in the competition as they lost all three matches in group C.