VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has directed the National College of Defence (NDC) to embark on research in security and strategic leadership so to come with ways of promoting peace which is a panacea for sustainable development. She issued the directive over the weekend at a valedictory function of the National Defence College (NDC) 2018/2019 held in Kunduchi in Dar es Salaam where 37 officials from different countries were conferred master degrees and diplomas in security and strategic leadership studies. “I urge the college to go beyond academic and knowledge advancement into enhancing research based problem solving capabilities. The government will continue to fully support you to go further and pursue your objectives you have been mandated,” she said. The Vice-President stressed the need for the NDC which offers courses to even senior officers and security organs from other African nations in security and strategic leadership to intensify research as global peace was challenged in dynamic ways which entailed scientific means to combat. “International security threats have become more non-traditional in nature manifesting in the form of terrorism, cybercrime and resources conflicts fuelled by climate change together with changes in global power relations with poverty and inequality. These presents African (Tanzania included) strategies with challenges demanding transformation regarding nature of peace, sovereignty, security threats and conflict management solutions needed to preempt them,” she remarked. She said that the government, through the Ministry of Defence, was ready to join hands with NDC to find mechanisms of facilitating such kind of research work, as Tanzania, like any other country, faced security challenges which demanded research based solutions. Meanwhile, The VP has urged the 37 security and strategic leadership course graduands at diploma and masters level to apply the knowledge gained to advise their respective governments on the best ways of containing and resolving existing socio-political conflicts in their respective countries. “I believe that now you are in a position to give policy advice to your respective governments; the main reason is to ensure that more time and resources are spent on development issues much needed by our people. Go and advise them accordingly on best ways to avert conflicts,” she said. Apart from Tanzanians from security organs and public service institution officials, others among the 37 graduands were from Egypt, Botswana, Burundi, Kenya, Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Mozambique and China.