MORE than 18bn/- has been collected from 120,699 electronic passports (e-passport) issued by the Immigration Department between January 31 last year and July 5 this year, it has been revealed. The department’s spokesperson, Mr Ally Mtanda, confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday at the ongoing 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) that since replacement of the old travelling document with the electronic one was announced last year, the turnout has been good. “A total of 120, 699 e-passports have been issued by the department since the announcement of switching to e-passport uses, on 31 January 2018 to 5 July 2019,” he said. He also explained that within two weeks, between June 19 and July 5 this year, about 20,865 travel documents were issued. Mr Mtanda made a passionate plea to those who have plans to travel abroad in the near future to apply for e-passports so as to avoid unnecessary troubles at the country’s exit points. He explained that out of the total issued passports, 11,9393 e-passports were for ordinary uses, 291 for service uses, 1013 for Diplomatic uses, and two for special diplomatic uses. He directed the applicants to go for on-line registration and then print the form for submission to any of the immigration offices, for e-passport processing. “Under normal circumstances, (if documents are complete and clear), the department issues the passport between three and seven days,” said the spokesperson. However, he called on those not faced with emergency trips to give chances to those in urgent need of the e-passport, especially now, when some students who applied for studies have been receiving their acceptance confirmations. In January 2018, President John Magufuli launched Tanzania’s e- passport, saying the new travel document would, among other advantages, enhance revenue collection, national security as well as control illegal migrants. The Head of State announced that the document would be available for 150,000/-and be valid for ten years.