OVER 1,000 research projects by Saint Joseph University in Tanzania (SJUIT), Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) and University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) remain idle, pending their commercialisation. Only two out of DIT’s 374 projects for the last academic year are in the market, with nine of the 374 on commercialisation process, the institute’s Principal, Professor Preksedis Ndomba said during an interview with the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam. He mentioned the two relaprojects already in the markets as traffic lights as well as liquid and solid soap. Those on commercialisation process include tea vending machine, water vending engine, briquette machine and digital books. “Others are 3D printer, hydroponics farming, CNG technology, CNC machine and leather products…there are many reasons behind the inactivity of the invented projects, one being the fact that commercialisation is a long process that requires among others, huge financial investment,” he said. It might be a short process once there is collaboration among innovators who consider standardisation to guarantee markets for the newly invented products, he said, underscoring the need for laws, policies and regulations of ‘Buy-Tanzanian goods’ as well as full reinforcement. SJUIT Director of Innovation and Techno-preneurship Acceleration Facility (ITAF) Dr Lawrence Kerefu argued that single focused mind might also be another reason behind the inventions’ idleness, arguing that most students innovate just to meet their degree requirements and not for their future. He said only 12 out of the 417 research projects are on commercialisation process, hinting that 200 projects that last year’s graduates hatched have not been developed. About 217 projects have already been produced in this academic year but hardly 12 are on the commercialisation process, he said, adding: “It doesn’t make sense when students exert many efforts in their discoveries but leave the knowledge and skills behind. Most do work only to have academic certificates but few have in their mind the focus of self-employment.” UDSM produced over 1,000 innovation projects last year but only 50 are in commercialisation process through the varsity’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre—UDIEC. The best 400 projects were selected for commercialisation but the country’s oldest university had capacity for only 50, according to UDIEC Director, Dr Ambrose Itika. “We are eager to see all the student discoveries going in the markets but commercialisation process isn’t an easy task. It needs not only huge funds but also experts to operate the incubations,” he said, adding: “Commercialisation is of importance because apart from making the technologies available in markets and cheaply accessed by every class of people in the society, it also helps in fighting against unemployment.” However, the don appreciated the government support through the Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), which has released some funds to back-up UDIEC efforts in commercialisation activities. A low-cost vein technology is one of UDSM products on commercialisation process under COSTECH sponsorship, said Dr Itika.