SIMBA Head Coach Patrick Aussems has expressed his satisfaction with the development of his squad as they registered their back to back victory in South Africa yesterday. Midfielder Clatous Chama netted twice, while Sharaf Eldin Shiboub and Muzamir Yassin scored one each as Mainland champions Simba cruised to a 4-1 win over Platinum Stars in Rustenburg, South Africa yesterday. “In the past few days we made some training sessions and I wanted to see what we have worked out in last few days especially defensively. Our focus right now is development and improvement of the team especially defensively. “These games are almost training sessions and I’m satisfied with what I’ve seen. The target is to be ready before the CAF Champions League and Mainland Premier League kick off,” said the Belgian trainer. It was Simba’s second victory in their pre-season warm up at their camp in Rustenburg, following another emphatic 4-0 win over a University side, Orbret TVET on Tuesday. Reports posted on the club’s social media networks, Simba were a dominant side in the match played yesterday morning at Rustenburg. Chama opened the scoring after 11 minutes before Shiboub added the second just two minutes later from a spot kick. After the break, Chama extended the lead in the 58th minute but the hosts pulled one back in the 75th minute through a spot kick converted by Ruele. There was still time for Simba to net the fourth goal, when Yassin powered home with three minutes to go. Platinum Stars is a South African football club based in Phokeng near Rustenburg. On Saturday, Simba will face Botswana’s Township Rollers before winding up their pre-season camp in South Africa with a clash against Soweto giants Orland Pirates on July 30th this year. Simba have pitched a pre-season camp in South Africa to shape up for the upcoming busy calendar, which will see them playing in three major competitions like the Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). With CAF Champions League fixture officially released and Simba thrown into the fray right from the first round, the Msimbazi Street side had to adjust their programme. Simba will face Mozambican side UD Songo in the first round, with the first leg set to be played away in Maputo in the weekend of August 9, 10 and 11 while the return leg will be held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam two weeks later. According to reports posted on the club’s social media networks yesterday, the eagerly awaited Simba Day will now be staged at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on August 6th this year, where they will face six times Zambia champions on the occasion of the Tanzanian club’s 83rd anniversary. In 1991, Power Dynamos became the first southern African club to win a continental trophy after they won the African Cup Winners’ Cup. The annual event, which is normally staged on August 8th, is increasingly becoming popular among Simba supporters and this will be the tenth year in a row the Reds stage the bonanza, which precedes the start of the Mainland Premier League season. As usual, the club will use the day to unveil new kits for the 2019/2020 season, introduce their entire squad for the forthcoming season and award outstanding current and former player. The new faces will include Brazilian trio -- defender, Tairone Santos da Silva from Brazil’s Serie D side Atletico Cearense FC, defender Gerson Fraga Vieira from India Top Division side ATK and striker Wilker Henrique da Silva from Bragantino FC, a Serie D side in Brazil. Others are Sudanese midfielder, Sharaf Eldin Shiboub Ali Abdalrahman from Al Hilal, striker Deo Kanda from Congolese side TP Mazembe and Kenyan midfielder, Francis Kahata from Gor Mahia. The list also has left wing back Gadiel Michael, goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya and attacking midfielder, Ibrahim Ajib from Young Africans. The list also has central defender Kennedy Wilson Juma from Singida United and attacker Miraji Athumani from Lipuli FC