FOR Taifa Stars, the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals was the learning curve but deep questions must be asked about the team’s defence, pundits said. Taifa Stars succumbed to 3-0 defeat at the hands of Algeria’s Desert Foxes at the 30 June Stadium late on Monday night, to end their campaign in the competition without a point. Adam Ounas brace and Islam Slimani’s strike condemned the Taifa Stars to their third consecutive defeat as they bowed out of the continental tournament shipping in eight goals and managed to score only two goals. Taifa Stars, who made a return to the tournament after a 39-year absence, lost their opening game to Senegal 2-0 before suffering a narrow 3-2 defeat to their East African neighbours Kenya. “This tournament has been the learning curve for Tanzania and it has been a cold room, which most of time they found too hot,” Shaun Bartlett, the former South African football striker said. “Nine changes were made in Algeria starting lineup and it did not make a difference because the quality that we saw tonight (Monday) was too much for Taifa Stars to deal with, especially in defence, where they made too many mistakes,” he said. “Awareness and positioning of Tanzanian defenders leaves a lot to be desired, the second goal was a clear example of poor marking and lack of focus. Central defender, Ally Sonso stepped ahead to give the scorer chance to run in behind and easily scored,” Bartlett said. Former Kenyan international Musa Otieno said Taifa Stars are going to learn some lesson in defence. “They need to have discipline in the pitch and off the pitch. They need to know once they lose the ball, how are they regrouping. Are they winning the ball as quickly as possible? “Every time they are being caught, they opened up the field and from there no transition. If you cannot play with discipline at that level, you are punished. “The way they (Taifa Stars) are building up, they do it very closer to the opponent … it is easy for them to cheaply lose possession and this is the way they have been conceding goals,” said Otieno, who during his hey days had a successful spells at AFC Leopards and Tusker FC of Kenya, as well as at South Africa Premier Soccer League side, Santos. Nigerian legend, Jay Jay Okocha also said Taifa Stars will go home knowing that they did not do well. “They haven’t got what it takes …at this moment to play a part in this tournament. For me this tournament came a bit too early for them. However, I know that they have taken some positives and hopefully the will come back strong next time,” he said. For Okocha, the match between Taifa Stars and Algeria was an example of how to play against an underdog. “You don’t make them gain confidence; you constantly put them under pressure. You know when you’ve got quality in your side, if you win the ball high on the pitch; you clearly know you have the better opportunity to score and that is exactly what Algeria did tonight,” he said.