Simba SC skipper John Bocco admitted that there will be more competition for playing time in the squad next season due to the presence of quality players. The champions departed yesterday for a pre-season camp in South Africa ahead of the upcoming busy calendar which will see them playing in three major competitions like the Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). However, speaking prior to the travel, Bocco said competition among the players is likely to be high since everybody will be eager to showcase high classy football to win trust from the technical bench. “In football, when players compete for playing time, usually the team performs better unlike when such competition is missing. It is my hope that such competitions will be done with much love among ourselves to enable the team fulfill its objectives,” Bocco said. Adding, the former Azam FC hit man urged his teammates to put the club’s objective above them in order for them to have another good chapter and help to propel the club further. “I believe that if we will have a good season as a team, then it will be a great platform for players to be seen by other big teams outside the country. We will therefore fight to our ability to bring the desirable successes at the club and for individual players,” said he. Elaborating more on the camp they have gone to pitch in South Africa, Bocco said it is part and parcel of preparations for the next season as they want to do much better than the previous one. He then called upon the club supporters across the country to continue rallying behind them insisting that they are ready to fight on the pitch to satisfy their fans. “Let me laud our passionate fans who have always been with the team. I believe that they are a perfect ingredient which enables us to do well in most of our matches. We dearly thank them a lot,” the captain said. On his part, the team’s Vice Captain Muhammed Hussein (Tshabalala) said he is looking forward to another sparkling season due to the nature of players who have joined the club. “Our main task as a team is to ensure that we work in unity for the sake of making sure that the set up goals are easily met and this camp is just one step towards meeting the intended goals,” he said. Also, the team’s new reinforcement Gadiel Michael revealed that the camp will necessitate him to get used with his compatriots as far as playing football is concerned. Asked whether playing in the same position as Muhammed Hussein will make him lose his value, Gadiel said that is the decision of the coach to choose who fits in accordance with the opposite team. Again, another new import for the reigning champions Francis Kahata said he will do what it takes to continue his good reputation on the pitch. “I believe that if we will play as a team, definitely, we can achieve great things,” said the former Gor Mahia player.