TANZANIA has been advised to take advantage of Southern African Development Community (SADC) membership to increase its share of exports in the region. Former Prime Minister Cleopa Msuya, speaking in a special interview, described it as “very unfortunate” if the country perceived this year’s SADC summit as a single event instead of its business opportunities. “We [as a country] are making a big mistake taking the Heads of State Summit as a big event…the big event is indeed our membership to [SADC] region,” Mr Msuya told the ‘Daily News’ last week. The ex-premier who retired from active politics in 2000 said SADC was created for business purposes. “SADC owes a lot to Tanzania, which spearheaded liberation of the southern Africa region. After liberation, the economic bloc was formed,” he said. SADC has some priorities— industry and trade, transport and communication, security and human resources through education. “We should not wait until the summit is held here to explore the SADC benefits…the summit is a mere one or two-day event after which the heads of state go back to their respective homes. Let’s stimulate our business community to come out with strategic plans to increase the region trade,” he said. Mr Msuya who served as prime minister for two presidents— Julius Nyerere and Ali Hassan Mwinyi—said planning was important and doesn’t happen overnight. He said celebration for taking over the SADC chairmanship was okay but, “If we end up on celebrating only, we are losing the meaning of integrating our markets.” The heads of state have their role to do and they have already agreed on how to ease business in the bloc.“It’s up to the business community to take advantage of the laid down trade agreements to increase our share of export into the region,” he said, arguing that the private sector has a key role to play in enabling the country to maximise its share of export to the SADC region. “They [business communities] should form committees to study on how we will maximise our exports to the Southern Africa region,” he said, adding: “I think someone has to do homework in the business sense and tell us what the [SADC] region wants from us.” He said the business community should also have similar strategic plans for the East African Community and COMESA blocks. An Economist, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, who works with TIB Development Bank, described the summit hosting as important to drive forward the country’s regional integration agenda with southern Africa. Tanzania, which is the third largest economy in the SADC bloc, has remained a net exporter to other countries in the bloc. The country, according to Bank of Tanzania Annual Report mid last year, recorded a trade surplus of 12.2 per cent in 2017. Tanzania registered a trade surplus of 445.5 million US dollars in 2017, up from 397.2 million dollars in 2016, thanks to the government initiative to increase trade within the bloc. “Specifically, Tanzania recorded a trade surplus with South Africa, DRC, Malawi, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Angola and Botswana,” the BoT latest report showed. SADC is a regional economic bloc of 15 countries in Southern Africa. Its aim is greater integration and trade in the region. It is one of eight regional economic communities in Africa. In SADC region, South Africa remained the major trading partner of Tanzania, accounting for 70.9 per cent of Tanzania’s total intra-SADC trade. In 2017, Tanzania’s exports to South Africa increased by 10.7 per cent to 699.8 million US dollars while imports declined by 12.1 per cent to 415.2 million US dollars. Tanzania’s major exports to the SADC region were gold, cigarettes, wheat flour, juice, ceramic, fish, glass, cement, soap, footwear, and bricks, while major imports, were motor vehicles, maize seeds, gas, iron sheet, lubricants, beer, apples and sugar.