HOLDERS Simba SC yesterday renewed their sponsorship contract with A-One Products and Bottlers Limited which make and distribute Mo soft drinks under the MeTL Group. However, through the new deal which is expected to run for one year at the tune of 250m/-, the flag product will now be Mo Xtra and not the usual Mo Energy that appeared on Simba Jersey last season. Briefing members of the media here, MeTL Group Director of Marketing Fatema Dewji said they saw it necessary to continue sponsoring Simba basing on their remarkable achievements they registered last season. “As you are aware, Simba sailed into the quarter finals of the CAF Champions League (CAF CL) and managed to defend the top flight league title for two consecutive years something which is big for the team and supporters,” she said. Adding, Fatema said the same deal they signed with Simba last year through MO Energy registered many successes and hoped that the similar good returns will be generated in the upcoming season under Mo Xtra drink. “Our main target is to see the club expanding its wings through fulfilling its long dream of winning the CAF CL title and continue to retain the Mainland Premier League trophy for many years to come,” she said. Further, Fatema revealed that such sponsorship deals help a lot to improve development of sports in the country as they enable teams to reach their intended targets easily. In a related development, she thanked government for banning the use of plastic bags saying MeTL Group wholly embrace the decision and they are on the leading role to assist government in making sure that the environment is protected. “We are among the few companies which have machines used to recycle plastic bottles which are scattered around our surroundings. We have people who go around collecting empty bottles and take them to be reproduced. This is a very important initiative since it helps to keep our areas clean as such, other companies should borrow a leaf,” said her. On his part, the club’s Chief Executive Officer Crescentius Magori thanked A-One Products and Bottlers Limited for again coming to their rescue and insisted that the money will be used accordingly. “Last year, we used some of the money to upgrade our training ground. This is the time for other sponsors and partners to come at Simba as our doors are always open ready to welcome all those who want to sail in the same ship with us,” Magori said. However, the CEO was lost of words when he was asked to comment on the current signings made by the Msimbazi Street club.