DAR ES SALAAM Stock Exchange (DSE) has amended price discovery regulations aiming to improve market liquidity. According to DSE, the trade rules were changed regarding the reduction of block trade threshold and changes on percentage variation on the touchline price. The bourse statement said the rules became effective this week and received full blessing form the regulator— Capital Markets and Securities Authority (CMSA). “CMSA has approved DSE’s proposal for amendment of Rule 2 (to provide for a reduction of block trade threshold from 1.0bn/- to 200m/- and Trading Rules 128 (1) and (3),” the statement showed. Orbit Securities said in its weekly synopsis yesterday lowering the minimum issued capital to trade on a session from 0.01per cent to 0.005per cent of the total issued capital of a particular company. “This amendment is expected to improve market liquidity by allowing more flexibility in the movement of counter prices,” Orbit said in a statement. Another amendment was on the calculation of the protection price limit which has been moved from 15 per cent plus or minus the touchline price to 10per cent for counters with less than 1.0tri/- market capitalisation, and 5.0 per cent for counters with more than 1.0per cent market capitalisation. “The amendments however provide a counter measure remedy for an illiquidity limbo that may be caused by the trading rules,” Orbit said. The remedy, Orbit said in a statement, that the amendment waves all trading rules on a counter that has not traded for 21 business days and provided that an independent valuation. For more than a year the bourse was running on bearish mode but in the last two weeks the trend changed and analysts predicting for the better future. DSE total market capitalisation had increased by 1.08 per cent to 19.17tri/- for the week ended last Friday, which was the second week the market cap increased suggesting a turning point from bearish run. Zan Securities Chief Executive Officer Raphael Masumbuko said the market echoed their sentiment of performance and turnover of last week. “The equity market echoed our last week sentiment in performance and turnover. “We forecast more improvement in the remaining two quarters,” Mr Masumbuko said through Zan Weekly Market Wrap-Ups report.