PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday met and talked to Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi on various issues, including strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries. Besides deliberations on strengthening the bilateral relations, the premier delivered President John Magufuli’s message to President Al-Sisi. The talks were held at the State House in Cairo as Mr Majaliwa wound up his three-day official visit in Egypt. In another development, the prime minister said the government has embarked on preliminary steps to formulate the national institutional policy framework for engagement of Diaspora in the country’s economic development. Speaking to Tanzanians living in Egypt, the premier said the policy will put in place guidelines for the stakeholders to identify and recognise Tanzanians in Diaspora in the country’s development. The premier, however, noted that the government had initiated various procedures to introduce the permanent residence permit. Through other laws to be enacted, the permit, according to Mr Majaliwa, will significantly reduce various challenges facing the Diaspora especially land ownership and dual citizenship. On free education, the premier told the gathering that the policy has boosted enrolment of school children in primary and secondary schools, noting that registration of standard one pupils had increased by almost 90 per cent while form one rose by almost 25 per cent. Mr Majaliwa further stated that the government had targeted to retain inflation at single digit, ranging between 3.0 and 4 .5 per cent. He also said the government had so far removed about 20,000, ghost workers who were costing the government 19.84 8bn/- monthly, equivalent to 238.176bn/-, annually. Mr Majaliwa said that the government had removed 12,000 workers with fake certificates who were costing the government 142.9bn/- per year. On rural electrification, the premier noted that so far over 4 ,000 villages have been electrified against the target of lighting 7,873 villages by 2020/21. He said the government is allocating over 4 69.09bn/- annually to execute the Project. During his visit, Mr Majaliwa met and talked to his Egyptian counterpart Dr Mostafa Madbouly and welcomed businessmen and investors from Egypt to invest in Tanzania. The premier also visited various Egyptian development projects, including construction of the new capital city, phase II extension project of Suez Canal and a large meat processing plant.