PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday ordered speedy issuance of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) certificates to investors and proper management of ecological conservation funds.Magufuli’s administration to make a comeback—two years after he relinquished his ministerial job over a parliamentary subcommittee report on Tanzanite that implicated him in sickening thievery in the sub-sector. As the government has now created friendlier environment for investments, which are key ingredients in attaining the industrial and middle income economy, Dr Magufuli emphasised that he was not ready to see any potential investor being delayed unnecessarily. “Make sure that NEMC (National Environmental Management Council) issues permits to potential investors as quickly as possible…and, if possible let them start their activities and furnish them with the document later,” Dr Magufuli directed. He instructed minister Simbachawene to ensure that funds issued for environmental conservation works are well managed, citing Rufiji Delta Mangroves project as one of the schemes which have been mismanaged. “A lot of money is being pumped into these conservation projects but the impact remains negligible. I want to see changes,” he said. President Magufuli also spoke tough on the growing tendency of failure to take action promptly, citing the ban on plastic bags that took nearly four years to implement despite repetitive notices from both the prime minister and vice president. “The ban came into effect recently just after my intervention… there are a lot of things that you and the experts under the ministry must act aggressively to address,” he noted. President Magufuli further disclosed that he is planning to meet pastoralists from all over the country to jointly discuss how to make the sector significantly contribute to the national economy. On the other hand, Dr Magufuli showered praise on Mr Bashe, saying he admired the way he packaged his contribution in parliament on agriculture sector, which if well managed, could help to attain the government championed industrial economy. “Go and put those theories into practice…you are very incisive and I admire your contributions in parliament. I believe you can help turn-around this sector, which employs majority Tanzanians,” he said. The president directed Mr Bashe to cooperate with the minister and other officials in the ministry to, among others, pin down unscrupulous traders engaged in coffee and cotton business. “The government had already put it clear that indicative prices for coffee and cotton are 1,500/- and 1,200/- per kilogramme, respectively but there are still deceitful traders bent on making super profit at the expense of poor farmers,” he said, directing officials to closely look into the matter. Dr Magufuli admitted that agriculture still faces a myriad of challenges, including indistinctness surrounding sugar sub-sector but believed that the challenges could still be addressed amicably. Speaking earlier, Minister Simbachawene pledged to deliver, saying he was aware of the environmental issues facing the country. “The country is now experiencing environmental degradation, forest devastation, mismanagement of water sources….a lot of money is injected into environmental conservation projects but there is no impact, these are key areas that I am going to start with,” he said. He disclosed that oath of allegiance he took yesterday was the fifth and he knew its importance, promising to remain loyal and obedient to the appointing authority at all the time of his life. Mr Bashe said there was a direct link between industrial economy and agriculture, affirming his fortitude to turnaround the sector by commercialising it and taking more initiatives that will lead to shifting from traditional to modern farming. “I am going to collaborate with my minister and other officials in the ministry to implement all plans billed to transform the lives of Tanzanians,” he said, adding that his major role, above all, is to help President Magufuli to successfully execute the ruling CCM election manifesto.