THE founder of the Simba Day, Hassan Dalali has implored sports men and women as well as soccer officials in Arusha to work harder in ensuring that the region gets a the Premier League class team. Speaking during the Simba Sports Concert held here over the weekend, Dalali used the platform to remind the residents of Arusha that, the region was an important precinct as far as sports, including football is concerned. He is surprised that the region lacks a proper football team to play in the country’s top flight league. “Arusha tops athletics and other forms of sports and in the past the region used to make scene in football leagues, I am really concerned that, at the moment there is no major football club here, despite the precinct being very sound economically,” said Dalali. At the moment, the region depends onto the Arusha Football Club (AFC), who play in the First Division League. Arusha’s only hope was the former Arusha United team which has been sold to a resident of Misungwi and changed its name to Gwambina FC. Dalali, who was the guest of honour during the Simba Sports Concert held at the Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium, also warned ‘naysayers,’ who have allegedly been spreading rumours against the ‘Simba Sports Club,’ claiming the team was steeped in crisis. “There is no crisis at Simba; The team is busy playing in international arenas, there is no time for conflicts, arguments or the speculated crisis,” maintained Dalali, who added that the team is currently enlisting new and better performing players. The Simba Sports Arusha Secretary, Thabit Ustadh, said the region has 15 branches of the club, but ten of them are active and during the event, these were presented with official certificates of recognition. “The other five branches are still in the process of being officially endorsed after being strengthened through the recruitment of more members,” said Ustadh, adding that soon the Simba branch will establish a sports shop here, where people will be buying balls, uniforms and other sports gear,” he added. During the Simba Sports Concert, there were football matches to colour the event, in which the ‘Nguzo Mbili,’ branch thrashed ‘Jamhuri Branch,’ 1-0 in the final game. Both teams are from Unga-Limited. Also won their match were Arusha Terminal who defeated Chem-Chem club of Usa-River 4-3 in a thrilling match.