NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars interim coach Etienne Ndayiragije is expected to name his sq uad today for the approaching African Nations Championship ( CHAN) qualifiers. Ndayiragije was officially named as Stars interim coach late on Thursday, succeeding sacked Nigerian Emmanuel Amunike, whose last game with the senior team was a 3-0 defeat from Algeria in the ongoing Africa Cup on Nations (AFCON) in Egypt. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the Burundian trainer was picked following an emergency meeting by the federation's Executive Committee on Thursday. “The committee endorsed him (Ndayiragije) as interim coach following his impressive achievements at his previous Tanzania clubs -- Mbao FC and KMC. He helped KMC to play in the semifinals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), during his first spell at the club,” Ndimbo said in the statement. Ndimbo further said that Ndayiragije has since proposed to work abreast with Coastal Union Head Coach Juma Mgunda as his right hand man as well as Polisi Tanzania FC Assistant Coach Suleimani Matola, a thing TFF wholeheartedly accepted as one way to promote indigenous coaches. Additionally, Ndimbo named former Stars and young Africans skipper Nadir Haroub Ally as the new team manager, whereas Saleh Machupa from Zanzibar's Malindi FC will trade as goalkeeper trainer. With this development, Ndayiragije who travelled with Azam FC to Kigali, Rwanda for the Kagame Cup tournament will cut short his responsibilities there to organise the national team affairs prior to CHAN qualifiers. Navigating Stars will continue to add value to the Burundian mentor who is yet to win silverware with a Tanzanian team but is one of the respected coaches so far in the country. Already, some pundits have described Ndayiragije's appointment as timely insisting that the Burundian knows a lot about Tanzania football and players involved in it. Tanzania will open their CHAN campaign on July 28th by entertaining Kenya at the 60,000 capacity National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, a game likely to reignite the painful 3-2 defeat the home team lately suffered from the neighbours in the ongoing AFCON finals. CHAN is the tournament which is specifically embraced by home based players as one way to expose their skills on global platform. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) has revealed that efforts to secure new league sponsor for next season are 100 per cent complete, just waiting for the contract signing. This was confirmed by the board's Chairman Steven Mnguto, who insisted that there is a possibility of winning two sponsors (main sponsor and co-sponsor) respectively. “What I can say now is that we have managed to finish 100 per cent of our discussion with the two sponsors and the last important thing we are waiting is official signing of the contract,” Mnguto said. He added that at the moment, they are looking on who should be the main sponsor and co-sponsor among the two firms, which have shown interest to bankroll the 20-team Mainland Premier League.