DEFENDERS; Erasto Nyoni and Kelvin Yondani have announced their decision to retire from international duty with the national football team, Taifa Stars. After serving the national team for over a decade, Yondani (34), and Nyoni (31), have announced to retire from the national duty, to pave way for youthful players to step up. Nyoni made his debut for Taifa Stars way back in 2007, hence playing for the last 12 years, while Yondani first donned the national team jersey in 2008 and since then, he has been regularly selected in the team. The two defenders were part of the team that competed for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals currently ongoing in Egypt. However, both players will continue to play their club football. Nyoni has just renewed a two-year deal to feature for Simba SC in the CAF Champions League, 2019/20202 Mainland Premier League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). On his side, Yondani is still very much part of Young Africans squad. He is expected to lead the team’s defence in the 2019/2020 Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and ASFC. Taifa Stars returned home yesterday after early elimination from the AFCON finals, in which they managed to score only two goals, conceding eight. Goals from Simon Msuva and Mbwana have heightened Taifa Stars’ marksmanship to finish joint fifth with African giants Cameroon, Nigeria and Tunisia at the ongoing finals. The statistics released on Wednesday by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), as a review of the teams after the end of the group stage showdown in Egypt, show that Stars did fairly well in attacking but was among the poorest in defending. Both Msuva and Samatta netted their goals during the 3-2 loss to Kenya’s Harambee Stars. The top scorers, according to statics are Algeria and Mali who have each netted six goals, followed by Egypt, Madagascar, Senegal and Ivory Coast with five goals apiece. DR Congo, Guinea and Ghana are graded third with four goals each, while Kenya, Uganda and giants Morocco are tied with three goals each. Tanzania has equaled with the defending champions Cameroon, the former champions Nigeria, Tunisia and Benin, all have netted two goals apiece. Teams that ended the group stage campaign with a single goal include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Mauritania, Namibia and Angola. According to the statistics, a total of 68 goals have been scored from the 36 matches of the group stage, an average of 1.9 goals per match. Among the brilliant performers are Algeria, Morocco, Egypt and Cameroon. The four teams are yet to concede. Seen as a historic moment in African football, Madagascar are the first debutants at the finals to qualify for the knockout stages since Cape Verde in 2013. Burundi became the third team to fail to score a goal in their first three games in the finals after Ethiopia in 1957 & 1959 and Mozambique in 1986.