AN own goal by Mukura FC defender gifted Azam FC a crucial 1-0 victory in their opening match of the CECAFA Kagame Cup championship at Huye Stadium in Rwanda. The goal came from an expertly taken corner kick that took a slight deflection from Azam striker Idd Seleman’s header in the 77th minute before landing into the yawning net. Seleman who made his debut for Azam after signing a one-year contract from Mbeya City, proved beyond doubt hat he is a good player provided he is given enough time to get used with his colleagues. It was a good start for the defending champions Azam who are looking to retain the title for third successive time and also a perfect start for its new coach Etienne Ndairagije. The Burundian coach already said the tournament is a good platform for him to get used to his new players prior to the upcoming Mainland Premier League, CAF Confederation Cup and Azam Sports Federation Cup games. However, Mukura also had their own moments in the game missing numerous scoring opportunities which saw their two goals ruled out for offside offence to the relief of the champions. The coming in of Donald Ngoma half way into the second half added rhythm for Azam as they continued to deploy more white shirts upfront in search of the highly awaited goal. In an early game, another Tanzania representative KMC salvaged a point in their inaugural match of the competition after being held to a 1-1 draw by Atlabara Club. KMC took the lead in the first half courtesy of Salim Aiyee’s 46th minute goal which was later cancelled out in the second half by their opponents. Aiyee, the former Mwadui FC striker emerged the top goal scorer for the domestic players in the last season’s top flight league after netting 18 goals and already vowed to continue firing more goals at his current team. A draw was much better for debutants KMC who are using the tournament to shape up their team ahead of the incoming busy schedule which they will be required to feature. Moreover, their new Ugandan trainer Jackson Mayanja already declared that Kagame Cup will help him to create a suitable formula for his side ahead of the approaching matches. Both Ndairagije and Mayanja are making their first managerial tasks at the unfolding competition before the start of the league.