The Central Bank has removed the Chief Executive of the TIB Corporate Bank with immediate effect to due to poor performance of the state-owned financial institution. The Central Bank said in a statement issued yesterday that it had suspended the appointment of Frank Nyabundege as Managing Director of the bank effective from Saturday. He will be replaced by Fred Luvanda, from the Directorate of Financial Sector Supervision who has been appointed to oversee the affairs and daily business operations of the bank as Acting Managing Director. “The Bank of Tanzania has decided to suspend the appointment of Frank Nyabundege as managing director of TIB Corporate Bank...following unsatisfactory performance of the bank,” it said in the statement issued late on Saturday. “This measure has been taken to improve the oversight and performance of banks owned by the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania,” the statement reads in part. Meanwhile, Diamond Trust Bank has been slapped with a 1.0bn/-penalty charge after it failed to establish a data centre in Tanzania. The central bank said in a statement over the weekend that in February and March this year it directed all banks and financial institutions operating in Tanzania to establish either a primary or secondary data centre in Tanzania with a view to ensure data and service availability at all times. It said it however established that DTB did not implement the directive, despite confirming to BoT that it had implemented a secondary data centre. “The Bank of Tanzania (BoT), has imposed a penalty charge of TZS 1,000,000,000.00 (one billion shillings) to Diamond Trust Bank Tanzania Limited (DTB), for failure to implement a directive to establish a data centre in Tanzania,” it said in the statement. In addition to the punishment captioned above, additional charge of 10 per cent of the penalty amount will be imposed to DTB on each month if the non-compliance continues. BoT urges on all banks and financial institutions to revisit their data centre arrangements and re-confirm their compliance status to BoT within seven days from the issuance of this notice.