IT is now official; the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASA) has been set in motion, with its Acting Director General, Engineer Gonsalves Rutakyamirwa, promising to deliver to the expectations of majority Tanzanians. The agency which shall be responsible for development and sustainable management of rural water supply and sanitation projects, comes into effect after the National Assembly enacted the Water Supply and Sanitation Act, 2019, earlier this year. Speaking at a news conference here yesterday, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water, Professor Kitila Mkumbo, said the agency officially inaugurated its activities yesterday, adding that its official launching was expected to be conducted on 16 July, 2019. The PS said the ministry had issued a grace period of three months between July and September, for the process of transferring employees, assets and other resources which were initially under water departments in the various Local Government Authorities (LGAs) and regional secretariats. “Within that period, top managers within LGAs, Regional Secretariat and RUWASA will be able to hand over offices to each other, as well as working tools and water projects at district and regional levels,’’ said Prof Mkumbo. The Water Supply and Sanitation Act, 2019 was enacted by MPs and subsequently assented by President John Magufuli on February 13, 2019. It provides for sustainable management and adequate operation and transparent regulation of water supply and sanitation services with a view to giving effect to the National Water Policy, 2002 and to provide for the establishment of water supply and sanitation authorities. The legislation also provides for establishment of community owned water supply organisations; to provide for appointment of service providers as well as repealing the Waterworks Act, among others. According to Prof Mkumbo, the management of RUWASA which came into effect yesterday would be led by Eng Rutakyamirwa as Acting Director General, who was appointed by the minister for water, Professor Makame Mbarawa on the competitive selection procedure after recommendation of the Board of RUWASA. Prior to his appointment, Eng Rutakyamirwa was Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Drilling and Dam Construction Agency (DDCA). Speaking yesterday, Eng Rutakyamirwa exuded confidence that the authority would deliver to the expectations of many villagers in the country who have been tortured by water shortage problems for many years.