GLOBALLY cases of deadly disease outbreaks have compelled governments to dispatch professionals to the fields, and commit a lot of funds to tame them. It is obvious that mere words and consolation cannot overcome diseases that include ebola, malaria, HIV/AIDS and dengue fever. The battle includes thorough research and entail commitment of adequate funds by a given government where such diseases have erupted. The citizens have an obligation to compliment the government’s efforts in the endeavour, through, among other means, to pay taxes, This is a major civic obligation. To quote Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.: “Taxes are the price we pay for civilisation.” More specifically, taxes are the price we pay for Tanzania we love. A well-functioning revenue system is a necessary condition for strong, sustained and inclusive economic development. The  government  deserves accolades for committing taxes address challenges in the society especially banking on the recent launch  in Dar es Salaam, of a five-year National Strategy for Vector Control (2019-2024) plan in Dar es Salaam. Speaking on the trend of the troubling diseases, the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms  UmmyMwalimu, said the country had recorded up to 6.5 million cases and 4,390 deaths due to malaria in 2017. Citing statistics from the World Health Organisation (WHO), which showed that worldwide there were 216 million new cases and 450,000 deaths being recorded annually due to malaria, the minister  pointed out that interventions towards tackling the problem were a MUST. "When dengue fever broke out early this year and created a lot of distress among the people, my fellow ministers in the cabinet were telling me to come up with a strategy to curb the problem. On the other hand, I told them that the effects of malaria were far worse, therefore, instead of coming with a strategy for dengue fever we should come up with a comprehensive strategy for vector control," noted Ms Mwalimu. According to her, officials from the ministry did an assessment of vector-borne-diseases like cholera, rift valley, bilharzia, yellow fever, among others, and decided that more should be done in overcoming the diseases. It is essential, therefore, for the citizens to sustain the tax payment obligation voluntarily, to facilitate success of the government’s  initiatives to combat problems, some of which sometimes hit crisis proportions. 