IN the three years’ reign of President John Magufuli in the Fifth Phase government, Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) notable achievements have been realised in various development arenas, with its Director General (DG) Eng Deusdedit Kakoko highlighting them as follows: Improvements of workers’ policy at the TPA To see into it that TPA staff, who are the backbone of development of the institution relied on by other sectors, TPA resolved to review public policies keenly related to its operations to align them with modern requiremnts and ensure improvement, growth and delivery of the workers in their areas of work. Currently about 20 policies have been reviewed to address the modern requirements. The TPA Board of Directors has already noted the policies and forwarded to them to the government according to the proposals and regulations in the Public Workers policy to be incorporated in the Minister of State, President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance for implementation. According to Eng Kakoko during the period, TPA managed to work and preside over all the cases which implicated its staff and after listening to them, the government has hence inaugurated a new system, though still working on it. The aim of the system is to move TPA to new heights to improve workers’ capacity and demands and to keep pace with modern work dictations, which in turn ensure delivery according to the government expectations. To reach the goal, it is essential that its staff work deligently, competently and creatively serve clients in the business operations with TPA. In order for the staff to work competently, they must be disciplined and creative so that they serve their clients efficiently at the Port. Eng Kakoko also noted that in order for the TPA to realise its goals, it has started a system of training its staff, an idea the government has supported. Currently TPA is doing a great overhaul in educating its staff for it to align with the government dream. ICT Project In the past three years in the Fifth Phase government, Eng Kakoko said that TPA has implemented the great project of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). This project once completed would bring a great change in the institution. And by the end of 2018/2018 fiscal year a great part of the operations, sales and financial transactions would be run through Information, Communication and Technology (ICT) system. Expounding, Eng Kakoko said TPA started improving Terminal Operating System (TOS) that would later be Port Operating System (POS). All these systems are being locally modified by national professionals sourced from within the country. Port Infrastructures Eng Kakoko said that within the past three years, TPA managed to implement different projects now seen successful in different stages. The government realising the importance of TPA in its collection of revenue for the development of the country, it noted that a big portion of the collection should remain within the Port to run its operations, because most of its activities involve spending. The Director General said that TPA runs a big project in Dar es Salaam Port known as Dar es Salaam Maritime Gateway Project (DMGP) that is being funded by China Harbours Engineering Company (CHEC) with about 336.4bn/-. The Project that would run for three years to be completed, saw its foundation stone being laid by President John Magufuli in the inauguration on 2nd July, 2017. All the projects of DMGP have different sub/contracts in it that would take 5 years to be completed and spend about 1 trillion/-, with one already in operation, besides other three, which require heavy work including drilling ways or designing a pathway as an entrance to the Port also already being signed. Eng Kakoko said that the project already accomplished and in operation is the built special gate berth for vehicles known as Ro-Ro-Berth that once already fully completed would serve vehicles offloading containers four times in comparison to the current capacity or translates as 2,500 vehicles per day. The project would cater for many vehicles and TPA plans to minimise vehicles clearing cargoes from 7 to 4 days with further notification that in the previous period it also managed to reduce the congestion from 170,000 vehicles to 70,000, pinpointing that vehicles’ numbers would also improve fourfold in the operations in the new efficeincy. Equally Eng Kakoko said that once the project would be completed, it would enable the Port in Dar es Salaam to successfully compete with others. Also the Port would be able to receive and accommodate a ship as big as some individual vehicles parked together. In the three to four past years, the Port in Dar es Salaam has been a transhipment base where a ship loaded with containers of vehicles could anchor on behalf of other Ports. In the process of improving gates number 1-7, gates number 1-2 are already in completion stage by June this 2019 year. Including improving the gates, TPA would drill berths from the current 10 to 15.5 to serve ships which require average 14.5 depth to carry loads in the present requirement. Eng Kakoko further said that once the improvements are accomplished, they would enable the Port to cater for Ship(s) that can carry modern 4,500 to 6,000 containers. By 2021, the Dar es Salaam Port would be able to handle 21 milion tonnes from the current 16.2, implying increament empowermdntg of 5 million tonnes within 5 years. He added that once all the projects would be wound up by 2025, implying end of the 10 contracts including improvemnts of number 8-11 gates and a space to make round turn of Ships, the Port would have the capacity to cater for 25 million tonnes. Within 10 years’ period to come, the Port would also have increased capacity to cater for 10 more million tonnes. The increase of containers would come along with increament of revenue being generated from taxing parcels/packages, which currently stand at 1.2 to 2 trillion shillings. By now the parcels show about 50 percent in taxes collected, where its 40 generated from the Port sector alone. He also realised that efficient and professional work would enable the Port to increase its revenue collections from the parcels taxations. For that mater, it is necessary for TPA and TRA to collaborate and work in consultations. On TPA’s side, its collections have improved in the past three years where in 2015/16 fiscal year it netted 703 bilion shillings in 2016/17 financial year, and 735 billion shillings in 2017/18, before it rose to 828 bilion shillings. However, TPA has put itself a goal to collect at least 1 trillion shillings on yearly basis. On the note, increament of revenue collections would enable the governmet to improve public infrastructures and others communities’ servies including those in education and health. On the side of Tanga Port, Eng Kakoko noted that TPA has completed improving gate number 2 and also that TPA has been using experts from the University of Dar es Salaam, after managing a completed a survey to increase the depth of the Port’ berth so that big Ships could dock, and the projects is envisioned to start in June 2019. Also the Tanga Port has managed to cater for big Ships carrying oil and other fuels and for the first time serving some cargoes destined to and from DR Congo like minerals and cement. Once the improvemnts would be completed, it would enable big business people and companies like A-Z from Arusha tohave the capacity to offload 200-300 conatiners on monthly basis relying on its services. Another project in the pipeline in Tanga Port would be the installation of Scanner machines to scan parcels and other luggage, besides the Port also planning to built an independent gate for oil and fuel cargoes, whose completion would enable it have the capacity to cater for about one million containers on yearly basis from the previous 600,000. Additionaly, Eng Kakoko said TPA has managed to build and enlarge Mwambani Port to modernly handle and sort out cargoes, though presently now looking for an investor. Worth notification is that there is an oil pipeline from Hoima in Uganda to Chongoleani Tanga in Tanzania. For Mtwara Port, Eng Kakoko quoted ongoing construction project at gate number 2 that is projected to be completed by end of 2019 year. With the completion of the project, the Port would be at a position to cater for 800,000 tonnes of containers yearly from the current 400,000 tonnes. The Port targets to serve and cater for the Sourthern Zones including countries like Malawi and Mozambique. For the Great Lakes Regions Port service, Eng Kakoko said that already there is an ongoing project. In Lake Victoria there are projects at Mwanza port, Magarini Port in Muleba District, Nyamirembe in Chato and opening new ones at Geita and Simiyu Regions. On the side of Lake Tanganyika, Eng Kakoko said that in the past three years there have been improveemnts at the Ports of Kagunga, Lagosa, Sibwesa, Kipiri, Karema, Kilando, Kabwe, Kasanga, Ujiji, Kibirizi and construction of Inland Port and Katosho. Citing Lake Nyasa, Eng Kakoko noted that in the Port there, TPA has inaugurated a projet to implement three projets, which were rolled out by MS Songoro Marine Company, where two are catering for cargoe known as Mv Njombe and Mv Ruvuma completed in 2017 and graced by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa in the launch. The third one being for passengers. The Ships opened and improved various business avenues and raised economy as well as statuses of families in the Lake Nyasa zone especially in regions of Mbeya, Songwe, Iringa, Njombe and Ruvuma. Equally, and the Ships network linked trade opportunities with neighbouring countries of Malawi, Mozambiques and Zambia, which in turn have improved TPA’s revenue collections and the country in general. On improving technology efficiency, Eng Kakoko said that TPA has already signed contrats to install them and improve work especially at gates 1-7 so that once completed and start work, including a conveyer belt would serve modern requiremnts in containers handling. Security and Safety of Cargoes Eng Kakoko noted the installation of modern Intergrated Security System (ISS) in Dar es Salaam Port as one of the ways to improve security and safety in such entrance abd clearance of goods/cargoes. He added that the ISS system now guarantees clients to have a lot of trust and faith in Dar es Salaam Port. The installation has in a way also enticed many business people to prefer using Dar es Salaam Port for clearance of their goods/cargoes. The system would be installed in all Ports countrywide to boost security and safety of clients’ cargoes especially at the One Stop Centre or Bandari Tower to further enable monitor of all other Ports for it is the tallest building in East and Central Africa. Regional Markets campaign On market, Eng Kakoko pointed out that in the past three years’ period TPA managed a campaign to reach neighbouring countries relying on Dae es Salaam Port to import and export their goods. TPA has managed to open a branch office in Lubumbashi in DR Congo, Lusaka in Zambia, Kigali in Rwanda and Bujumbura in Burundi. TPA also has agent office in Uganda, and Lilongwe in Malawi as well as in DR Congo and some more in Goma and Bukavu. Containers’ cargoes and Ships Eng Kakoko said that containers and cargoes numbers increased in the past three years. There was also an increase in the number of Cargoe Ships. TPA also witnessed an increase of containers from 13.7 million tonnes to 16.2 million tonnes within a span of two years and reaching 2021, assuring that Dar es Salaam Port would have the capacity to handle 21 million tonnes on yearly basis and by stretching to 2025, the Port would be at a position to handle 25 million tonnes. Benefits of Ports Ports have a lot of benefits to the communities and economy of the country, which Eng Kakoko cited as being also beneficial to the government, where over a half of the authorty’s revenue is channelled to improve Tanzanians welfare. A part of TPA’s collections is directed to pay its staff’s salaries and invest in running its internal projects at the Ports. The Port has also been used to import and export some raw materials for local and foregin industries and to the markets fast enough. The Ports have also helped a lot to import industries equipment especially machines in the minerals’ extraction and mining sector. TPA has also been helping communities in its Corporate Soial Responsibilties (CSR) coffer, where every year it has been releasing 300 million shillings. The focus of the assistance is to help the government in its development in Council, District and Regions, where TPA has Ports. Also Eng Kakoko said that TPA has started collecting its payments electronically with machines. The e-payment system has improved payments and minimised time wastage to the extent that they have been extended to small ports in villages. Because TPA is a government institution being run by the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party, it also tried to implement the paty’s manifesto in its activities and administration. Hence, whatever TPA has been doing is simply fulfilling pleges of the Party to the citizens.