REGIONAL land management experts are seeking to explore quicker solutions based on smart technologies to address challenges facing East African countries in land management and administration. The experts would from today hold a two-day conference in Zanzibar to chat out means to overcome such challenges. The conference has been organised by the Ardhi University with the support from German development agency (GIZ), the Dutch organisation for internationalisation in education (NUFFIC) and ADLAND. The 2019 Eastern Africa Land Administration Network (EALAN) Conference in Zanzibar would focus on Quest for Smart Solutions for Responsible Land Management and Land Administration in Eastern Africa,” according to a statement from the Ardhi University. The statement, released yesterday, said the conference has been preceded by a workshop and Annual General Meeting being held between 18th to 23rd July. The statement says that the experts’ intervention to seek smart solutions comes because traditional methodologies of mapping, registering and titling land have not yielded the desired outcomes. “The key solution now lies in digitization of the land administration systems that would help ensure good land governance, land readjustment and consolidation for food security generally,” it adds. During the conference, two key note addresses will be given by prominent land experts in Tanzania. The first key note address will be on Implementation of Land Tenure Support Programme (LTSP) in Tanzania and the second presentation will focus on innovative land administration in Eastern Africa and its impacts on customary land tenure. Each key note address will be followed by a policy dialogue session. The conference has attracted about 20 papers on results from recent research on the theme and a total of 120 participants. Participants are, among others, from the EALAN member countries, NELGA partners, ADLAND Project and Ardhi University, Ardhi University staff, officials from the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development in Tanzania, Commission of Lands in Zanzibar, Civil Societies from within the Eastern Africa region.