TANZANIA is ready to work with China to better protect the environment through close cooperation and shared prosperity in green development. Again, Tanzania has reaffirmed her readiness to seize the opportunity of joint implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and outcomes of Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Prof Palamagamba Kabudi made the statements here recently during the celebration of Tanzania Day at the 2019 International Horticulture Expo, saying the exhibition is a welcome opportunity for Tanzania to introduce her products in China and the world market. He said the government appreciates Chinese commitment to the global endeavour for ecological conservation and building the beautiful planet for all. He was of a view that the event has enabled participating countries to strengthen exchanges and mutual learning on ecological development in pursuit of win-win progress. The minister used the opportunity to market Tanzanian coffee, saying the crop is indirectly making a living for six per cent of Tanzania’s population. “As part of celebration of our national day, we have decided to host coffee cupping event. That is why our event this morning is taking place at the coffee pavilions. Coffee in Tanzania is one of the largest export crops and it still has a big potential for export to the world market,” he said. According to him, Tanzania produces 60,000 tonnes of coffee per year. Directly coffee is grown by about 450,000 families, with total value averaging 150 million US dollars. Arabica coffee makes up 70 per cent of total production. Tanzanian Ambassador to China Mberwa Kairuki thanked the organising committee for the support and availing space for Tanzania. “I comment the Expo organising committee for making available the Tanzania pavilion and the Tanzania Trade Development Agency (TANTRADE) for their ground work, coordination and facilitation that enabled Tanzania’s participation to this exhibition,” he said. Earlier, TANTRADE Acting Director General Latipha Mohammed Khamis said horticulture in Tanzania is the fastest growing agricultural sub sector and has registered tremendous growth in the past four years.