SOME 30 medical practitioners, including nurses and midwives at Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH), have received training through Tanzania National Nurses Association (TANNA) on prevention of hospital-acquired infection (HAI). Under the auspices of Johnson and Johnson, a multinational pharmaceutical company, the training was geared towards imparting knowledge to medical practitioners on the proper use of medical devices to prevent HAI. “The main goal of the training workshop is to provide medical practitioners with knowledge on prevention of hospital-acquired infections,” National Sales Manager of Johnson and Johnson Adam Mponda, said during the oneday training workshop here over the weekend. Mr Mponda explained that HAI is an infection that can be acquired in hospital, nursing home, rehabilitation facility, outpatient clinic or other clinical settings and that the infection is spread to susceptible patient in the clinical settings by various means. “We came up with the idea to train medical practitioners after realising that some medical practitioners do not use the medical devices properly,” he observed. Mr Mponda informed that the training workshop will cover a number of topics, including types of the hospital-acquired infections and HAI prevention as well as proper use of medical devices. He pointed out some types of HAI as hospital-acquired pneumonia or ventilator-associated pneumonia, gastroenteritis, puerperal fever and central line associated blood stream infection. Mr Mponda named some of the measures to prevent HAI as controlling and monitoring hospital indoor air quality needs to be on agenda in management for those with ventilatorassociated or hospital acquired pneumonia. Nursing Directorate Director at BMH Salome Kasanga expressed gratitude to the Johnson and Johnson pharmaceutical company for the training, which she described as vital to improve prevention of HAI in BMH. “I call on the workshop participants to share knowledge acquired here to your colleagues to improve prevention of hospital-acquired infection,” said Ms Kasanga in the opening speech she delivered on behalf of BMH Executive Director Dr Alphonse Chandika. TANNA BMH Branch Chairman Bahati Sai said the training will improve implementation of measures to prevent HAI at the hospital, promising to share knowledge acquired in the workshop with his colleagues.