THE Director General of the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL), Mr Waziri Kindamba, yesterday assured Tanzanians that the new state owned company will provide excellent services to all customers in the country without any delay. “The time will come when we will be forced to apologize to our customers for delivering services before the desired time. The new TTLC will provide excellent services to our customers in time,” he said after signing a 4.2bn/- worth contract with the Judiciary of Tanzania in Dar es Salaam. The contract that will be implemented in phases within 24 months involves the supply and installations of networks or fiber connections to buildings housing the Court of Appeal, High Courts, Resident Magistrate’s Courts and District Courts countrywide. Mr Kindamba assured the Chief Court Administrator, Hussein Katanga and other officials with the judiciary who witnessed the signing ceremony, that the contract in question will be implemented timely as expected with good quality connection services. “As we are signing this contract, already some of the equipments are on the site. Everything is on good course. We congratulate the Judiciary for trusting us to carry out this great project. I promise that we will not let you down,” the company’s director general said. Giving a briefing on the project, the Judiciary’s Information and Communications Technology Director, Mr Enock Kalege, told the gathering that the Judiciary of Tanzania is implementing a five year 2015-2020 Strategic Plan with the aim of, among others, to increase efficiency in the flow of judicial activities. “This measure is achieved by expanding the use of ICT at all levels of the Judiciary to facilitate timely access to justice but also to move the judicial services closer to the public. The judiciary is entering into contract with TTCL for connecting buildings from the Court of Appeal to Primary Court,” he said. According to him, efforts to connect court buildings started way back in 2015 by involving the TTCL and the move has started bearing fruits. The contract to cost 4,170,6 43,125/21, he said, would cover one Court of Appeal and 16 High Court buildings. Mr Kalege also disclosed other buildings as that of four specialized High Court Divisions, 29 Resident Magistrate’s Court buildings, 112 buildings housing District Courts and 10 Primary Court buildings, thus making a total of 157 buildings that would be connected countrywide. He pointed out that two types of services would be made available in the connected buildings, notably in-house data connections and internet serviced in all involved areas. The buildings would be connected using the Fiber Optic Cable (FOC) and Broad Band Waves (BBW) on a few other areas. “Based on the sensitivity and security of judicial activities, this Internet service will be facilitated through a technology of Virtual Private Network (VPN) through Multiprotocol Labeling Switch (MPLS),” he said. Mr Kalege mentioned some of the benefits as facilitating access to judicial services through electronic systems and to facilitate the exchange of information between the courts and institutions involved in the entire justice system in the country.