NMB Bank has handed over 10.48bn/- dividend to the government for last year, an increase of 3 per cent, compared to 10.17bn/- paid in 2017. Handing over a dummy cheque to the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Philip Mpango. The NMB Bank’s Acting Managing Director, Mr Albert Jonkergouw, said the money channeled to the government is part of the 31.8 per cent shares it holds in NMB. “NMB is one of the success stories of privatisation in the country, whereby for the past 10 years, it has paid over 118bn/- dividend to the government,” he said, adding “We are a strong and reliable bank with a strong balance sheet.” Mr Jonkergouw said that the country’s business environment had enormous opportunities and as NMB, with the largest network, is ideally in a position to support the business community in achieving their goals. The bank has over 220 branches, 6800 agents ‘Wakala’, and more than 800 ATMs across the country and is present in all government districts. “NMB has over the years maintained a healthy capital position and we intend to continue doing so. To achieve this, NMB will continue on its path of stable and continued growth in supporting its customers and being a major player in supporting the growth of the Tanzanian economy,” he said. Apart from the dividend, NMB Bank paid over 168.8bn/- in total to the government as taxes, ranging from PAYEE, corporate tax, skills development levy, excise duty, and VAT on services. Receiving the dividend, Dr Mpango said he was happy to receive it, calling on other companies in which the government has shares to emulate NMB’s example. “NMB is our success story when we talk about privatisation; they have been doing so well. While others are complaining, NMB is capitalising on opportunities we have in the country to do a sound business,” said Dr Mpango. The minister added that “If we had other institutions doing the same as NMB with such dividend, we could witness a huge improvement in the provision of social services and also contribute to major government projects like Stiegler’s Gorge hydroelectric power station, standard gauge and other infrastructure projects we are building.” At the NMB’s annual general meeting held in Dar es Salaam last month, shareholders approved 33bn/-dividend to be distributed to shareholders, which is an equivalent of 66/- dividend per share. The bank reported a 142bn/- profit before tax for the year ending December 2018; a 3 per cent increase from 138bn/- that was recorded in the previous year. Mr Jonkergouw stated that the bank sought to balance maximizing shareholders’ returns while also reinvesting funds into the bank’s business in order to finance its growth plans.