UGANDAN President Yoweri Museveni is expected to pay a one day private visit to Tanzania today. According to a statement issued yesterday by the Directorate of Presidential Communications, the two Heads of State will hold private talks at President John Magufuli’s home village (Mlimani), at Chato District in Geita Region. President Museveni becomes the second Head of State to visit President Magufuli at Chato a week after Kenya’s President Uhuru Kenyatta did so. Speaking to wananchi shortly after his arrival, President Kenyatta underscored the importance of the peoples of the two countries to maintain bilateral and brotherly relations between the two countries. He reminded that Tanzanians and Kenyans were relatives and therefore had to strengthen their relations including business relations. Meanwhile, MEDDY MULISA reports from Kagera that President John Magufuli has directed Water Minister Professor Makame Mbarawa to fire nonperforming water engineers and contractors who fail to complete work within the set timeframes. President Magufuli gave the directive on Thursday evening at Muleba town, where he made a short stopover on his way to Chato. “I have received complaints that several projects which cost millions of tax payers’ money were half completed and others were abandoned. Some Water engineers spend many hours on soft chairs in public offices and do not inspect projects on sites. You are personally doing a good job. However, I want you to be more aggressive. If necessary, fire even 100 engineers. This tough action will awaken them from slumber,” he stressed. He also directed the ministry’s technicians to find solutions by supplying people with water especially those living around rivers and lakes. Meanwhile, Professor Mbarawa has appealed to Tanzanians to take concerted efforts in preserving water sources by planting trees friendly to the environment. He made the appeal at Izigo W ard, in Muleba District while launching a traditional water source at Izigo village where he planted a tree locally known as “Omutoma”. He was apparently pleased with efforts being taken by the water management committee (WMC). Mr Chrisant Kamugisha, who is also Muleba District Council Chairman informed him that about 6.5m/- had been accumulated and the committee had deposited the money in the bank for the utility. Minister Mbarawa also urged other people to emulate the example. Mr Mbarawa is on a four day visit to inspect water projects in Kagera Region.