THE Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Mr William Ole-Nasha, has directed the Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), to ensure that innovations done in the country are used to address various challenges facing the public. Mr Ole Nasha issued the directive yesterday when he toured various education institutions participating in the ongoing 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair at Mwalimu Nyerere grounds along Kilwa Road in Dar es Salaam. He said the innovations done by youth from different education institutions such as Vocational Education Training Authority (VETA), University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Mbeya University of Science and Technology (MUST) should not end up in exhibitions. “There are a number of good things resulting from the innovation, but they end up in display innovations should go beyond exhibitions by making mass production,” he said. He called upon responsible institutions to cooperate in supporting the innovative youth so that they can secure patent for their work and obtain funds for production. Mr Ole-Nasha said that COSTECH should use the exhibition forum to bring together innovators, traders and industry owners so that they can enter into agreement on how they could help them. He noted that if the innovators will not be supported, they will end up introducing good products which are not useful to the society. The deputy minister, however, challenged COSTECH to set out a plan of reaching innovators in rural areas to promote their work instead of dealing only with those who are in urban areas. A report dubbed ‘Investing in Social Innovation and Technology in Tanzania: HDIF’s Reflections and Recommendations 2013-2018’ released recently by Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF), showed that Tanzania has improved the country’s ranking in the Global Innovation Index (GII), moving up 31 positions from 123 in 2013 to 92 in 2018. The development was attributed to the rapid development of innovation ecosystem in the country over the past five years. According to the report, the innovation ecosystem in Tanzania had developed rapidly, with an increase in the number of individuals and institutions stepping up and becoming more active, visible and connected than ever before. It said new start-ups and hubs were cropping up every day and there is growing awareness of the role that innovation can play in finding solutions to large and pervasive development challenges.