THE ability to learn and speak English among pupils in Serengeti and Bunda districts is expected to improve significantly, thanks to Grumeti Fund English Language Camp initiative. Launched in the area, the initiative involves teaching pupils the language through fun games, songs and dance with language experts sourced from the US leading them. The teachers from Concordia College in US partnering local trainers are mostly targeting Primary Schools in the area, where they held several camps at Grumeti Fund Environmental Education Centre, Mugumu and Bunda areas. “Each camp ran for six days and hosted 30 pupils each week per location and the major focus was to develop the pupils’ confidence, interest and ability to learn English,” read part of a statement Grumeti Fund had for press over the weekend. “Building a foundation, confidence and interest amongst the pupils to learn English at tender ages is important and has proved to expose them to master the language well,” it indicated. A total of 630 pupils have so far attended the camp since its inception in 2017, read the statement adding that the ratio of girls and boys picked for training has been equal ( 50 per cent to 50 per cent). Grumeti is non- profit organisation that supports conservation and local development activities in Western Serengeti. Every year, the organisation also offers scholarships to bright needy students in 21 villages of Serengeti and Bunda districts, bordering Ikorongo/Grumeti Game Reserves. Expounding, more than 400 girls and boys have benefited from the scholarship, since it was introduced in 2009. Grumeti Fund is a sister organisation of Singita Grumeti, a conservation and eco-tourism company that runs world class luxurious lodges within the wildlife-rich concession areas, which form the integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem. Singita Grumeti is now seen as the leading foreign investor in Tanzania with significant contribution on sustainable conservation activities and local development of Western Serengeti, part of the great Serengeti ecosystem in Mara Region. The investor has also created several direct and indirect jobs to the locals, where they are now guaranteed of permanent incomes and in turn declining poaching activities according to the local leaders