THE government has launched the national plan to manage, conserve and protect rhino population in a coordinated manner. Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamis Kigwangala (pictured) launched the vigorous Protection of Black Rhinos plan here yesterday. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF)— the leading organisation in wildlife conservation—is funding the plan in collaboration with the Tanzanian government. According to Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI) Researcher Dr Edward Kohi, the plan was prepared by a consortium of several organisations, including WWF, Tanzania National Park Authority (TANAPA), Tanzania Wildlife Authority (TAWA), Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) and Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS) under the coordination of the ministry. Dr Kohi said the plan, whose implementation is scheduled in a timeframe of five years, needs 61 million US dollars (about 140bn/) and its major objectives are to attain viable and optimal population of Black Rhinos throughout their natural ranges for conservation, economy and humanity. “The plan also aims at increasing the Black Rhino’s population at a minimum rate of five per cent, annually,’’ he said, adding that currently, the Rhinos population in the country is 161 and if the plan is well executed, the country expects to have not less than 205 Rhinos. According to wildlife experts, the difference between Black and white Rhinos is their hooked upper lip. Tanzania has two subspecies of black rhinos which are Diceros bicornis michaeli and Diceros bicornis minor. Speaking at the ceremony, Dr Kigwangala said in the 1960s, Tanzania had about 10,000 black rhinos but their population started to decline in the early 1970s due to increasing poaching that led to almost rhino extinction in the country. “The massive loss of rhinos triggered intervention measures by the government agencies and other stakeholders to secure and increase their population,” said the minister. Dr Kigwangala challenged the plan executors to ensure that by the end of the plan in 2023; the number of rhinos has at least doubled from the current 161 rhinos. The minister underscored the need to protect rhinos to increase revenue in the tourism industry, arguing that tourism contributes 17.6 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and 25 per cent of the country’s foreign currency earnings.