THE Deputy Permanent Secretary (PS), in the Ministry of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government-Health, Dr Dorothy Gwajima has directed Yombo Vituka Health Centre authorities to ensure the newly-constructed theater is operational by August. She made the directive in Dar es Salaam, recently while visiting the institution and discovered that its theater was still not operational, despite its constructions being completed since August last year. “I am very impressed with the ongoing construction of the new building carried out by the Temeke Municipal Council and some of the completed projects at the health centre financed by government under a programme of rehabilitating and constructing over 300 health facilities countrywide,” said Dr Gwajima. However, she expressed dismay that it was not operating despite teething problems, which the local authorities could alternatively handle. Earlier, the health centre doctor-in-charge, Dr Mainda Zayumba cited lack of electricity, which required installation of a transformer and some medical equipment including heavy duty autoclave, and caesarean section set up as a laboratory lamp as draw backs, which have halted start of their operations. Other equipment in her list included laparotomy sets and mayo set, altogether amounting to 134m/-. Equally, she pointed out that the Medical Stores Department (MSD) had been issued with 200m/-to supply them with the medical equipment, but not yet delivered. In response, the Deputy PS directed the Municipal Director, Regional Medical Officer (RMO), and District Medical Officer (DMO), to devise a plan before August this year to make sure that the theater starts work. According to Dr Gwajima, the effect was that many residents in the area were in turn denied the institution’s services in close areas, forcing them to transfer to Referral Hospitals unnecessary. She said that being also a member of the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF), Steering Committee, and citing her responsibility also to coordinate its activities, she felt tasked to further improve the lives of people living in poverty in the country. In a related development, she called upon the Secretariats from the Regional to the Council to comply with the requirements of the memorandum of understanding (MOU), they signed to implement and advocate TASAF’s programmes. “TASAF is among the many government programmes that strive to eradicate poverty in the county, and being the case, all your operations should be coordinated to uplift the lives of the poor,” pointed the Deputy PS. On behalf of Temeke Municipal Council, the area Water Engineer, Mr Primy Damas pledged to ensure that the transformer issue would be resolved before ultimatum expires.