NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike said they will open a new page today as they face Algeria in their last group C match of the Africa Cup of the Nations (AFCON) in Egypt. It will be the last match for Stars in the ongoing 24-team biggest football competition on the continent as they eye to record their first win of the competition. For Amunike, today’s match is a pride restoration campaign as there is no chance of qualification to the last sixteen after losing two matches. The country’s flag bearers began their AFCON campaign negatively losing to Senegal 2-0 before succumbing to another 3-2 loss to Kenya in an all East African derby clash which rejuvenated the latter’s hopes of reaching into the second round of the contest. With six points from two games, Algeria became the first team from group C to sail into the next round of the competition with their latest score being a 1-0 triumph over Senegal. Both Senegal and Kenya who face off today in another thrilling fixture of the group have three points apiece meaning that a win by each of them will be the entry ticket to the next door. Tanzania is pointless at the base of the table hence a win against Algeria will see them bagging three points which will be their first win in the tournament. However, commenting on today’s encounter, coach Amunike said the past results should be erased and instead open a new page. “I remember Taifa Stars lost 2-0 to Algeria in Dar es Salaam and somebody told me that again, Stars lost 7-0 to the same opponents but all that is history now, we should look for tomorrow (today) to change the previous bad results against them,” Amunike said. He added: “Personally, I have no doubt that tomorrow (today), we are going to post our first victory,” said Amunike. On his part, Star’s striker Simon Msuva conceded that the Algeria tie will be tough but insisted that it is the best time to show their potential. “In football, there is no big or small match. For us, we take every game seriously and we are ready for the showdown. Tanzanians should just pray for us to do better,” Msuva who scored the first goal for Stars against Kenya said. Stars had a bright start against Kenya scoring two goals in the first half courtesy of Msuva and skipper Mbwana Samatta which made them to go to the change room heads up. However, in the second half, Kenya’s Harambee Stars organised themselves to equalise before pumping the winning goal that sealed the deal on the day. It was Michael Olunga who netted twice to give his team a victory but the player later admitted that they were exposed to the difficult match against Taifa Stars. “It was a tough game against our neighbours Tanzania back home. They gave us hard time especially through their trio players Msuva, Thomas Ulimwengu and Samatta but we resisted well their pressure,” said Olunga who plays his professional football at the Japanese club Kashiwa Reysol. Elaborating on their match against Senegal, Olunga said they understand that it is a difficult game but they too have 90 minutes to make an impact. According to the fixture, all games in group C will be played simultaneously from 10:00pm.