PRESIDENT John Magufuli has warned government officials and other leaders who charge petty traders popularly known as machinga who have already paid 20,000/- and given Identity Cards. Dr Magufuli told a gathering at Rwamishenye village, Misenyi District in Kagera Region that such officials and leaders would not be tolerated. During his stopover at the village, a section of people complained about an official known as Pesa who was charging the machinga despite having IDs, something that triggered inconveniences and disharmony. After hearing the complaints, the President ordered the Regional Police Commander to arrest the person and he promptly complied. However, Pesa was subsequently released on the President’s orders on condition that he apologized to the gathering. He stressed that the machinga with IDs had already paid annual charges and should therefore not be subjected to any other charges. However, the President told the machinga not to block entrances of other business premises and shops since this denied revenue to other traders. Dr Magufuli said that businesspersons with shops that had a capital of over 4m/- and were paying large tax to Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) had a right to conduct businesses without hindrance. In another development, President Magufuli directed the Minister for Water, Professor Makame Mbarawa, to make sure that residents of Kyaka area in Misenyi District got clean and safe water within five months from now. Prof Mbarawa assured the President and the residents would get safe and clean water by December this year. Meanwhile President John Magufuli has been irked by reports aired by a section of residents who paid their money under Rural Electrification Agency (REA) II project but had to-date had not been connected to electricity. They complained that instead, connectivity was being given to other people under REA III. Following the complaints, President Magufuli directed Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani to immediately go to Kagera Region and solve the problem. The Head of state assured Tanzanians of the government’s commitment to improve social services. Dr Magufuli appealed to people to utilize electricity by establishing small and medium industries to add value to their crops. He also said that the government had allocated about 22bn/- for construction of a Vocational Training College in the region and urged youth to utilize the opportunity by joining the college to get technical skills. While at Muleba, President Magufuli showered praise on the late Engineer Leopold Mujungi for exemplary services to the nation. He visited his grave at Magata village and conducted prayers and directed the Regional Engineer for Tanroads to construct a decent house for the family of the deceased to whom he gave 1.5m/- as a token of consolation.