INTERFAITH leaders yesterday launched a book titled Social Market Economy Model for Tanzania (SMET), that is set to be a gateway to industrialisation that aims at inclusive and sustainable economic development. Speaking during the launch, Interfaith Chairperson, Bishop Stephen Munga explained that the book introduces an economic model, a tool that ensures the entire Tanzanian population is developing economically. “Development does not need a superman, but needs the participation of the community, and such progress brings about freedom,” he explained. “But people cannot be developed; they can only develop themselves,” he quoted Mwalimu Nyerere. SMET is based on principles of solidarity, subsidiarity, minimum wealth for all, open market with fair competition and regulatory frameworks, he mentioned. He pointed out that the book identified among others three important pillars that involve the society, the government and education. “Education puts emphasis in creating competent participants in the market economy,” he said as he offered constructive criticism, posing a question of how the current education system is preparing youth to cope and generate their own income with the current economic system. He further elaborated that the model was a combination of socialism and capitalist economic systems, created to fit the Tanzanian situation and bring economic freedom to every Tanzanian. “We do not want to leave any one behind, yes there will be rich people but we want the poor to be able to generate income as well, it’s a model of development for all,” he stated. However, he cautioned that this should not be just another book added to the existing dusty shelves. “We should now be able to change words into action and come up with strategic plans and change the lives of people liberating themselves from poverty,” added Bishop Munga. The Secretary General of Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC), and the coordinator of the project Rev. Dr. Charles Kitima, said that religious leaders have now got a tool to increase income development participation to their congregations. “We want to see people liberated from poverty. With this model, the goal of 2025 will be achieved, as without strategic plans six years is not far and it will be hard to realize it.” he noted. He revealed that only two million people are in the formal employment, with 13 percent of the population generating zero income, and 800,000 students graduating every year with minimal vacancy in the job market. “We need an education system that will affect how our youth think, with an understanding of the economic market so as to bring up youth who are competent to generate their own income, ” Father Kitima noted further. Sheikh Khasan Kaeke from Mwanza Region commended the efforts made by the religious platforms including TEC, Muslim Council of Tanzania (BAKWATA) and Christian Council of Tanzania (CCT), in trying to develop every Tanzanian, leaving no one behind. This book is like a directorate that will enable a religious leader and anybody else to educate their congregation on ways of generating income, he said. “Some religious leaders think that issues concerning the economy do not concern them, but as religious leaders we have the responsibility to ensure that we educate our congregations to understand the importance of engaging into various economic opportunities,” commented Sheikh Kabeke. "This model is in line with the country’s vision of 2025 and that President’s John Magufuli of creating 100 billionaires before his term ends," he said.