MADAGASCAR, the world’s fourth-largest island that is famously rich in wildlife and poor in financial health, has never been a hotbed for any sporting achievement. It’s qualifying for the recent Africa Cup of Nation (AFCON), finals in Egypt raised eyebrows, but its superb performance was historical. Since its national soccer team was formed in 1947, it was a tale of failed qualifications, withdrawing or not entering the AFCON competition, as if it had nothing to do with the continental tournament. Unfortunately, the country has over the past three decades experienced a series of political commotions and has a shaky infrastructure and poor leadership of football, despite the game being a popular sport. No one expected them to even pull a draw in its group, let alone winning a match or qualifying for the next stage of the competition. Tarea (a species of zebu cattle they chose for their nickname), went on to bulldoze some of Africa’s soccer giants, such as Nigeria who were beaten 2-0. Their last-16 tie against DR Congo proved that they were a force to reckon with, and it was not a surprise that after their 4-2 victory on penalties, hundreds of people were dancing on the streets of Antananarivo and in almost every village of this Indian Ocean Island. This is a country whose domestic league was so disorganized, that before travelling to Egypt, the national team was put in dormitories in a half-built hotel. Players had to step over electric cables as they tried not to bother the painters on the way to their rooms, with roaming chicken clucking in what was supposed to be the reception. At night, the players who were the pleasant package in Cairo used to have uncomfortable nights because of rats, bugs and spiders. Can you imagine all that their support group could manage to help the team financially was to raise £200/ . For which the players were so grateful before leaving for Cairo. Apart from that, the team took part in the AFCON finals when there was a national tragedy at home a few days prior, with 16 deaths and many more wounded in a stampede during Independence Day celebrations. Their feat provided a little happiness to the Malagasy, who instead of crying in sadness, started to cry with joy. It is worth mentioning here that their patriotism drove the county’s President, Andry Rajoelina, whose government had earlier shown little interest on the squad. To travel to Cairo and join the team until it was eliminated by an experienced and tested squad of Tunisia. When they arrived back home, the president welcomed them at the State House and awarded the players and officials with the rank of Knight of the Malagasy National Order, following their impressive run at the Africa Cup of Nations. He also offered them a cash reward of $250,000. I have narrated this sad scenario which was overshadowed with a pleasant performance just to show Tanzanians how players who are patriotic and determined to give their country a respectable representation in an international soccer tournament can perform wonders. To me, this is another lesson for us from the just ended AFCON tournament in Cairo. In a nutshell, apart from having good preparations, a perfect and well defined work plan and committed officials in the government and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), we need players who are patriotic and committed despite all the odds they may face when playing for Taifa Stars. Now that the AFCON 2019 is part of history, let us get ourselves well prepared for AFCON 2021. I have no doubt that we can do better than Madagascar if we are a little bit more serious