SPORTSMEN and sportswomen have been urged to register for the International Beach V olleyball Coaching course to be conducted next month in Dar es Salaam. The course is one of the campaigns to fast track development of volleyball in the country. The course, which is open for men and women, aims at promoting and developing beach volleyball and as well, imparting modern volleyball knowledge to the trainees, according to the organizers Tanzania Amateur V olleyball Association (TAVA). The four-day course to be held from 26th to 29th August, will be divided into two sessions as detailed the association’s Secretary, Alfred Selengia, who added the preparation for the much awaited course is on a top gear. The course of its kind will start with online sessions to enable participants learn through internet. “Preparation is going on well and we have already sent invitation to all volleyball stakeholders wishing to attend the course that aims to impart and boost their coaching skills,” said Selengia. He hoped, if well attended, the course can create good coaches capable of taking the game to the high level. He added that the International beach-volleyball coaching course will be conducted by a Zimbabwean instructor from Confederation Africa de Volleyball (CAVB). “ We welcome those wishing to participate to come forward and register for the course that will start with online lesson and climax with practical training,” he said. He believes Tanzania can overcome several challenges facing the beach volleyball in its bid to raise the standard of the game countrywide, so that it can compete at the global levels. “Beach volleyball is easy to develop because it needs only two players, but to fullfil that we need to develop all areas including quality coaches, who will groom young or talented players,” he added. Meanwhile TAVA has invited sports journalists to attend the August 26- 29 course so as to learn more about the game and assist TAV A in its development projects. “We value journalists since they are key players in development of the game. We urge them to come and join us at the course.”