ALL eyes and ears of Tanzanians, plus the broader international community, will today be focused on Rufiji in Coast Region, where President John Magufuli is scheduled to preside over the historic event of laying the foundation stone for the mega Rufiji Hydropower Project. The event comes almost seven months after the government signed the contract with the Egypt-based construction company - Arab Contractors - for project implementation. The project, the first of its kind in the country, is expected to add 2,115 megawatts to the national grid, spurring an industrialization drive currently being undertaken by the fifth phase government. Though the idea to carry out the project was conceived by the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in the1970s, President Magufuli spiritedly set out to realize Mwalimu’s dream. “The journey that started late last year after the signing of the contract enters the new phase which is the laying of the foundation stone,” Minister for Energy Dr Merdad Kalemani was quoted as telling reporters on Wednesday in Morogoro. According to Dr Kalemani, after the contract was signed on December 12, 2018, the contractor officially started mobilization work in February 2019 and officially started construction work in June 15. He said the pace of project implementation was good as the contractor had executed the preliminary tasks by one hundred per cent. The project has already started bringing benefits to locals as, according to the minister, 600 youths have been recruited for various preliminary job opportunities with 6,000 direct jobs expected to be created. He said upon completion of the project, 58 villages in Coast, Morogoro and Dar es Salaam regions will have been electrified. Rufiji hydropower project will immensely contribute to driving the country’s economy to middle income level. Mr Saleh Pamba, Dr Abubakar Rajabu, Abdulkarim Shah,Dr Magnus Ngoile and Dr Thomas Kashililah who are the friends of environment and conservation recently released their report titled ‘ The Reasons Behind the Project and Its Far Reaching Benefits’, in which they clearly stated the reasons underlined by the world bodies in objecting to the project not having any tangible effects that call for second thoughts. “In our findings, we conclude that the reasons underlined by the World Bodies in objecting the project do not have any tangible effects that will call for the second thoughts and as such the decision so taken by the Government to proceed with Stiegler’s Gorge Hydropower project is by far the correct one with no alternatives on hand that will assure the investors and other stakeholders of an affordable, reliable and sustainable electricity equivalent to 2115 MW,” the report reads in part. The conservationists were reacting to the reports that implementing the project would have serious consequences on the ecosystem in the Selous Game Reserve. They say given the fact that the area to be used in the project is only 2 per cent of 50,000 km2 of the Selous Game Reserve, the negative concern against the project is unfounded. The country needs ample, reliable and affordable energy to support industrialization, mining, high-speed standard gauge railways system, rural electrification and agro business.