TANZANIA Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA), has directed TTCL Corporation to connect people working in the 2,115 megawatt Rufiji Hydropower project site and the surrounding areas with high speed 4G networks before end of next month. The 4G will guarantee reliable and efficient communication services at the area. The directives were issued by the TCRA Director General Eng, James Kilaba during an official tour to the Rufiji Hydropower project site comprising of the management and the board of directors. “The aim of the TCRA learning tour is to support the government in the implementation of strategic national projects by ensuring there are reliable and efficient communication services,” he said. He said the communication regulator is of the view that no investment can be implemented and yield the expected results without being supported with efficient communication services. The directives issued by the communication regulator come just few days after the official launching of the 6.5tri/- worth Rufiji Hydropower project by President John Magufuli. The hydropower project will involve the construction of the 100 kilometers long and between 25 to 30 kilometers wide Nyerere Hydropower Dam, which is also expected to be the largest in East Africa region, 4th in Africa and 60th largest in the world. During the project implementation, over 6,000 people will be employed and 100 houses constructed for the TANESCO employees to manage the project when it is completed. According to Eng Kilaba all these people need to get access to high speed and reliable communication services during and after the project is over. He said the hydropower project site is also surrounded by hotels and other tourism facilities that will greatly need to be connected to high speed 4G eco system to easy communication services. He said reliable and efficient communication services are important because the project is expected attract local and foreign tourists. On his part, the TCRA board chairman, Dr Jones Killimbe said in this modern world communication is largely centred on data that can only be obtained efficiently through high speed 4G network system. “We have come to support the flagship projects implemented by the government that are expected to bring about huge economic transformation,” he said. The hydropower project will bring to an end the problem of power shortages the country experienced for a long time but which slowed down economic activities particularly the manufacturing sector. He said TCRA wants to make sure it becomes key facilitator of efficient and reliable communication services to all strategic national projects. The TTCL Corporation Principal Eng Cecil Francis said the state run telecom company will act accordingly to the directives issued and provide high speed communication services to meet the deadline. “We are already providing 3G network to the project site but we will upgrade the communication services to meet the needs of both people working in the project and stakeholders in the surrounding areas,” he noted.