VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan is today expected to inaugurate the 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF)—SabaSaba exhibitions—which started last Friday. Industries, Trade and Investment Minister Innocent Bashungwa told reporter at Mwalimu Nyerere grounds along Kilwa road in Dar es Salaam yesterday that this year’s exhibitions focus on utilisation of opportunities to promote the country’s industrialisation drive. This year’s “Agro Processing for Sustainable Development” theme will be sustained even in the coming trade fairs to deepen agriculture, livestock, fisheries and small scale entrepreneurship. “We want to help the country to achieve the middle income economy because the critical mass of Tanzanians will have been covered,” minister Bashungwa said, describing the DITF as an important forum for the business community in the country to market their products and strike joint ventures with other foreign companies. “We expect our factories and investors who have invested in the country to use the forum to network and establish strategic partnerships with foreign companies participating in the trade fair,” the minister said. He added that there will be special displays for the country’s strategic crops like coffee, tobacco, tea, cashew nuts and cotton, which earn the country foreign currencies. Mr Bashungwa said July 7 has been set as special day for display of strategic crops, with visitors getting the opportunity to see the crops and their markets. The minister also said that there will be a number of business to business meetings to avail farmers with opportunity to meet buyers and other stakeholders. Minister Bashungwa further said that countries participating in this year’s trade fair have increased from 33 to 35 while participating local companies have as well increased from 2,956 last year to 3,250. Meanwhile, the minister has assured traders and members of the public that Tanzania has the best quality of cashews, which can fetch good market. The minister’s remarks come amid misleading reports by some misguided people on the tainted quality of the cash crop. Mr Bashungwa assured that he has visited all cashew nuts warehouses in the country and based on expert information, there is no doubt over the quality of the agricultural produce in store.