THE government, through the water ministry, is implementing a 6 million Euros programme which is geared towards sustainably improving water security and climate resilience in urban areas. The programme funded by Germany through GIZ, German Corporation for International Cooperation, is a continuation of the long standing Tanzania-German technical cooperation in the water sector, according to Permanent Secretary, Prof Kitila Mkumbo. “The programme redefines our long standing technical cooperation with Germany in the water sector,” the Permanent Secretary remarked during an event to sign the implementation agreement here on Thursday. Prof Mkumbo said the threeyear technical cooperation programme would focus on three areas-climate resilient water resources management, water security and sanitation in urban areas and skills development in the water and sanitation sector. He noted that it would help in improvement of water supply and infrastructure in underserved urban areas, namely Songea, Tunduma, Mbeya, Shinyanga and Korogwe. Prof Mkumbo further said that the programme would improve climate resilient water resources management, including climate change adaptation measures through multistakeholder involvement. “It will also facilitate climate resilient water safety plans for water supply and sanitation authorities in selected regions,” he said. Prof Mkumbo noted that the programme would help enhancement of employability for technicians or artisans, largely females in the water sector by setting up apprenticeship for water and sanitation training for them. On his part, GIZ acting Country Director, Dr Johannes Schoeneberger, said the programme would provide technical and financial support to the government to enhance water resources management. “The programme will facilitate capacity building training in water areas to improve water security and climate resilience,” said the GIC acting Country Director. While presenting a brief on the programme, Head of Water Programme in GIZ, Dr Ernst Doering, said it would develop action plans for conservation and protection of water sources to enhance climate resilient water resources management. “It will also develop a business model for sanitation service chains to improve water security and sanitation in urban centres,” he said.