ESTABLISHMENT of mineral centres across the country has led to rapid growth in revenue to 136bn/-. Minerals Minister Dotto Biteko (pictured), speaking in Dar es Salaam at the receipt of 35.34 kilogrammes of gold that was intercepted at Kenya’s Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in February 2018, said the centres have boosted revenue collections to the government. The gold consignment was handed over to President John Magufuli by a delegation from Kenya led by the country’s Foreign Minister, Ms Monica Juma. It was revealed that the loot was being smuggled through Mwanza Airport then to Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) before heading to Nairobi from where the precious stone had to be exported to the UAE.Mr Biteko said the amount of gold that was previously recorded annually in the country, is currently acquired daily. “Previously, at Chunya gold market, only 12 kilogrammes were recorded annually but since the mineral centre was established in March, this year, production has shoot to 270 kilogrammes,” noted the minister. Geita Mineral Centre records 736 kilogrammes of gold, with mineral revenues throughout the country reaching 136.7bn/- while 7bn/- was collected through clearance fee and loyalty, said the minister. He commended President Magufuli for pioneering the mineral centres’ establishment as well as Regional Commissioners and District Commissioners for supervising the drive that is already bearing fruits. Mr Biteko also extended appreciation to the president for advocating the establishment of the country’s own smelters and mineral refineries. The minister hinted that the ministry had embarked on a plan under which the deputy minister and permanent secretary visited China to gain experience on the best practices that the country can emulate. “I am pleased to inform you that 32 investors have been vetted in the process based on their financial abilities and capabilities and already two companies have been granted licences to construct the refineries. However, another company has also been granted the licence to invest in the smelter here,” revealed the minister. He further informed the gathering that since 2010, Tanzania had not issued a major mining licence but for the first time during President Magufuli’s tenure, two Special Mining licences will be issued. Mr Biteko also identified some of dishonest acts which were going on to sabotage the mineral markets, citing a network that intends to destroy the mineral market by buying minerals for 96m/-, above the market value of 92m/- per gramme. “We have already identified the network of twelve people and we are dealing with them,” he added.