YOUNG Africans members and fans are bracing for the eagerly awaited week, dubbed ‘Wiki ya Mwananchi’ event, which will begin on July 28th and climax on August 4th this year at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The Jangwani Street club’s Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela confirmed that all necessary procedures ahead of the eventful week are progressing according to plans. “This will be a very big event for our club bearing in mind that it is the first time we are doing it as such, our fans and all football lovers in the country should turn up at the venue in their big numbers,” Mwakalebela said. He added that prior to the eventful day, they will conduct series of community works like planting trees, donating blood, visiting orphans and patients in various hospitals among other things. “On the peak day, we expect to unveil our new jerseys to be used for the 2019/2020 Mainland Premier League season, introduce the club’s anthem, parade new and old players, who will trade for the team ahead of the upcoming busy schedules,” he said. Adding, Mwakalebela pointed out that the Jangwani Street based team will play a friendly match against AS Vita from DR Congo, saying their opponents have already confirmed to honour the match. “They (AS Vita) have sent us a delegation list of 37 people, who will arrive in the country on August 2nd this year, perform light training session on August 3rd, one day before the big friendly match,” he said. He further said it will be a good platform for Yanga fans to know each other well since the day will be the first of its kind in the history of the club. “Yanga supporters in different regions should be willing to use well the upcoming “Wiki ya Wananchi” through performing various social activities so that come on August 4th, all of them should descend at the 60,000 capacity stadium,” he said. Some of the players expected to be part of Yanga squad next season include goalkeepers; Farouk Shikalo, Metacha Mnata, Ramadhani Kabwili and Klaus Kindoki. Defenders: Paul Godfrey ‘Boxer’, Juma Abdul, Muharami Issa ‘Marcelo’, Jaffary Mohamed, Andrew Vincent ‘Dante’, Kelvin Yondani, Ally Ally, Mustafa Suleiman, Ally Mtoni ‘Sonso’ and Lamine Moro. Midfielders: Papy Tshishimbi, Feisal Salum ‘Fei Toto’, Mohamed Issa ‘Banka’, Patrick Sibomana, Issa Bigirimana, Mapinduzi Balama, Mrisho Ngassa, Deus Kaseke, Raphael Daud Loth and Abdulaziz Makame ‘Bui’. Strikers: Sadney Khoetage, Juma Balinya and Kalengo Maybin. Currently, Yanga are in Morogoro for preseason schedule under the team’s Assistant Coach Noel Mwandila as the Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera is set to link up with the squad any day from next week.