TANZANIA and Kenya have agreed to reinforce their cooperation in the fight against crimes, exchange of fugitives and protection of natural resources for the two countries to prosper. President John Magufuli and his Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta reached the consensus during their telephone conversations yesterday during the handover of 35.34 kilogrammes of gold by a Kenyan delegation. The gold consignment was intercepted at Kenya’s Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in February 2018. Besides the gold, President Magufuli also received money, including 170m/-, 76,500 US dollars (over 175m/-) and 171,600 Kenyan shillings, which was robbed at NBC Mwanga branch in 2004. According to President Magufuli, the resolve to return the assets back into the country was reached when the two Heads of State met in Chato, recently. Upon receipt of gold and money—both being proceeds of crime—President Magufuli called his Kenyan counterpart to express his deepest appreciation for his integrity and patriotism. He warned all criminals bent on committing offenses in either of the two countries, saying they will be extradited without hesitation. “If you commit an offense in Kenya and later escape to Tanzania, you will be dealt with accordingly and vice versa. There is no room for people who abuse the rights of other people in our countries,” stressed President Magufuli. Speaking over the phone,President Uhuru pledged to stand firm to ensure that resources of the two countries benefit all people, noting that criminals have no place. He observed that it was their duty to ensure that people’s resources are protected and justice is done amongst all the people. By so doing, noted President Kenyatta, the two countries will ably construct good schools, hospitals and deliver other basic services. “We do not have boundaries in fighting crimes in the two countries, we will continue to embrace the good relations in bringing our people out of poverty,” he stressed. However, President Magufuli raised concern over the failure by security organs to tame criminalities, saying offences were continually committed in the country. Much as the security forces work hard, Dr Magufuli said something is wrong somewhere and challenged Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro to act tough to ensure all wrongs were immediately addressed. He further noted that Africa was blessed with vast natural resources— minerals, water bodies and forests among others—but the continent is not benefiting from the riches due to exploitation and smuggling. In dealing with the challenges, he said Tanzania has taken sweeping measures, including banning exports of mineral concentrates, strengthening security at the country’s ports and borders and establishing minerals centres and markets, among other initiatives. “After embarking on all the measures, the country had in the 2017/18 fiscal year targeted 191bn/- revenues from minerals but collected 301bn/-, an increase of 110bn/-. In the 2018/19 financial year, the target was to collect 310bn/- but 335bn/- was garnered. The 2019/20 fiscal year target is 470bn/-,” he said. President Magufuli also hinted that other areas that he had discussed with President Kenyatta as the plan to start procuring gas and maize floor from Tanzania. Besides the delegation that handed over the seized minerals, the Kenyan leader had also sent in representatives to deliberate on the gas and maize deals.