MIC Tanzania Ltd has pledged to work with the Universal Communications Services Access Fund (UCSAF) to extend data connection in wider and remotest rural areas of the country. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ here, the Company’s Chief Technology and Information Officer Jerome Albou said Tigo was undertaking serious investments in seeing stable rural coverage and reliable data connectivity come 2023. He was speaking shortly after he participated at the East African Communications Organization (EACO) meeting and panel discussion that brought together National ICT Regulators, Operators, Service Providers and other Stakeholders in the telecommunication, postal, broadcasting sector and the academia in the region. According to Mr Albou, although his Company was making some remarkable progresses in implementing a number of communication strategies to its earmarked areas of coverage, still some challenges needed to be taken on board. “Challenges hindering smooth rural communication include low investments and power connectivity forcing communication companies like Tigo to depend on solar power,” he said. He cited an example of low data traffic in many of the rural settings caused by lack of reliable power connection resulting into few smart phone users using data during the weekends comparing to the rest of the week days. Studies show that many phone users tend to charge their gadgets at the markets which takes place only once a week during the weekends as many households have not installed reliable power capable to charge their phones and other electricity devices. “And even if there were reliable power, studies are also showing many rural dwellers cannot afford data costs,” he said. He was of the view that working closely with UCSAF will address many of those challenges and work together to see how the current operating costs might be reduced. However, Albour said Tigo was equally working with the state in ensuring financial inclusion agenda particularly through maintaining its Tigo Pesa subscription which is now between 60 and 70 per cent. Giving his remarks, the EACO Executive Secretary Dr Ally Simba said the weeklong EACO Congress and meetings of Assemblies meet to deliberate on strengthening and promotion of regional integration among the six East African Member countries and development of the communications sector in the East African region. The theme for the 23rd EACO Congress therefore is timely. It comes at a time when we are seeing emerging of new technologies such as 5G, IOT, big data, AI etc. amidst the challenges we are facing as a region. Now it is the time to review our policy directions, regulatory approaches and rightly position our region for the digital economy,” he said. According to him, the drop in prices of smart phones and other terminal devices together with the availability of new innovative services and applications have all contributed to the growth in data communication and a sharp growth in demand for bandwidth which operators and service providers need to diversify and improve their service delivery. Additionally, he said, the structure of the telecom market is continuing to change because of the rampant mergers, acquisitions and consolidations by operators which we are currently witnessing in the market. Given our shared vision and responsibility, it is important for all stakeholders in the Telecom; Broadcasting and postal sector to come together and think of new strategies that we shall use not only to reposition our sectors but to help the consumers take advantage of the opportunities toward a fully digitized economy in the East African region,” said Dr Simba.