TANZANIA Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) yesterday signed in Dar es Salam an agreement with Heifer International Tanzania under which the latter will organise farmers into viable groups and teach them proper dairy farming so that they can grow and qualify for short- and long-term loans from TADB. The agreement was signed between TADB Director of Finance Derick Lugemala and Heifer International Tanzania Country Project Manager Mark Tsoxo. The agreement seeks to boost national dairy production through better knowledge and help farmers access affordable loans. Dairy production in Tanzania is characteristically low: 1-3 litres/animal and Tanzania’s dairy industry is very small either. Mr Lugemala told reporters at the signing ceremony that TADB was aware that Tanzania had significant livestock resources with the potential to transform the lives and incomes of livestock keepers. “TADB will collaborate with stakeholders to promote dairy farming and uplift smallholder dairy farmers, improve the dairy value chain and make the sub-sector produce enough quality milk needed by local industries like Tanga Fresh and ASAS Dairies,” he said. “Heifer International has enormous experience in the dairy sub-sector. This agreement will help align farmers in an elaborate system so that they can be eligible for loans. Our bank is ready to collaborate with stakeholders in this endeavour to help boost the growth of national dairy sub-sector,” he explained. He said TABD’s mission was to offer reliable loans to stakeholders in farming, livestock and fisheries sectors so that they could produce enough competitive products in the market. He explained that the thrust of the agreement was to focus on dairy farmers so that they could produce enough quality milk needed for local consumption and by local industries. Mr Tsoxo pointed out that the agreement would help their company increase the pace of uniting smallholders into viable groups countrywide so that could get knowledge and right techniques for successful dairy farming. “Our responsibility is to ensure smallholder dairy farmers benefit economically using this sub-sector and be active participants in the implementation of the government’s resolve to make Tanzania a middle-income and industrial economy,” Mr Tsoxo said.