SEVEN doctors from Bangladesh are in the country to learn sustainable implementation system of the 5S-Kaizen total quality management (TQM) in Tanzania. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Public Relation Advisor, Mr Raymond Msoffe, made the revelation yesterday, saying that one-week training would help the Bangladeshi to raise their system from 5S to the KAIZEN stage. KAIZEN is a Japanese evidence-based problem-solving process that enables people to improve a particular situation with minimum resource input and maximum wisdom. The Public Relation Advisor noted that the training would assist the participants to learn concepts, methods, and process of KAIZEN and observe its actual practices in operation. “Cases of the practice at the model hospital are necessary for us through Tanzania’s experience and efforts made over the past 10 years,” he pointed out. Mr Msoffe further said that JICA has been supporting the efforts of the Bangladesh health ministry to improve its non-communicable diseases management that is also addressed as an activity component for quality improvement in hospitals with support from the implementation of 5S-KAIZEN. “5S has been introduced in more than 100 hospitals in Bangladesh and has shown remarkable changes in hospital management and staffs’ positive attitudes. We believe that through this training, the participants would be equipped with right skills to help them strengthen their hospitals’ management,” he noted TQM is a multidisciplinary and participatory process with continuity skills; where all categories of staff normally bank on to realize high-quality services. 5S is a workplace organisation method that uses a list of five Japanese words: seiri, seiton, seisō, seiketsu and shitsuke, which translate as Sort, Set In order, Shine, Standardize and Sustain. The list describes how to organize a work space for efficiency and effectiveness by identifying and storing items in use, and maintaining the area and items, and sustaining the new order. The decision-making process usually comes from a dialogue about standardization, which builds understanding among employees on how they should organize their work.