THE Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (Ewura), has issued 607 licenses for electricity generation and electrical installation works in a single year. Ewura Communication and Public Relations Manager, Mr Titus Kagua said yesterday at the ongoing 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair that of the 607 licenses issued in 2018/2017, seven were for electricity generation with capacity of 97.3 MW when commissioned. Mr Kagua said that 600 electrical installation licenses were issued to individuals qualified to carry out electrical installation works, in order to ensure safety practices in electrical installation to customers. “The increasing number of people applying for electricity installation licenses was due to an increased level of awareness to electrical licensees following awareness programs, inspections and meetings with stakeholders conducted by the authority,” he said. The Electricity Act 2008 requires any person undertaking or seeking to undertake generation, transmission, distribution, supply, system operation, cross border trade in electricity physical and financial trade in electricity and electrical installation activities to secure a license. “The law mandates the authority to award licenses to entities undertaking or seeking to undertake a licensed activity,” he said. Mr Kaguo, however, said as of mid-last year, four very small power producers (V SPP) with total installed capacity of 453.03kW, were registered for conducting generation and min-grid distribution activities serving 887 customers in off-grid areas unreachable by Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco), service. He added that two VSPP were issued with provisional registration with potential generation capacity of 72kW that will serve 60 potential customers. “There is an increase of number of registered VSPP in 2017/2018 as compared to the previous financial year where two were registered,” he said. The latest report on regulatory performance on electricity sub-sector has recorded some achievements in the sector among others, network expansion and connection of 198,286 customers to electricity has increased connectivity and accessibility of electricity in the country. The report also indicated that network liability and loses have continued to improve as a result of continuous monitoring and inspection of electricity infrastructure while increased awareness has led to increase demand of the regulatory interventions to matters regarding licensing, consumer complaints resolution and electricity accident investigation.