TANZANIA takes over the rotating chairmanship of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) next week and there are needs to look over financing intra-regional strategic development projects. In a number of occasions Tanzanian Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi has maintained that the country is all set and looks forward to host the 39th SADC’s summit of heads of state. To many of us, this is an important summit particularly given its shape, starring role and focus to the regional integration agenda of southern Africa. Whereas, it is no doubt that hosting the SADC Summit is a great credit to Tanzania as a nation, this by itself doesn’t limit us thinking on what is needed to make the region’s vision and spirit better in attracting Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) when compared to other funding sources that is key to financing or funding inter-regional strategic infrastructure projects. It is critical in my view, specifically for us as Tanzania, as we are going to take up SADC Chairmanship. Many of us might not be aware but it is well agreed that the establishment of the SADC regional development fund and identification of strategic innovative sources of financing was aimed at providing funds to inter-regional economic projects. This desire has been a long held objective of SADC and hence, reminds me of the amendment to the SADC Treaty agreed back in 2001 that delivered clearly for its creation. If I may interpret the amendments of 2001 and achievement attained to-date and missed opportunities, I think, I am not wrong to conclude that progress within the SADC bloc as far as regional development fund concern has been slow not least as a consequence of the decision in 2006. Articles 16 of the SADC Finance and Investment Protocol which was signed up in August 2006 mandated the establishment of the project preparation development fund, stating “The State Parties [i.e. being the SADC Member States] agree to establish a Project Preparation and Development Facility [PPDF] to finance the preparation and development of projects by way of providing technical assistance towards project identification, project selection and feasibility studies and to participate in the financing of selected projects” to what extent has this fund been useful to whole SADC member states? As heads of state meet next month, it will be good to catch-up any verdict reached on where the fund will be hosted. This is important, since unsuccessful tender process launched in March 2007 to identify a suitable and fully qualified host institution for the PPDF hasn’t been certain. Why the process with the PPDF has been too slow? Available data indicates that by mid-2014, out of 290 funding proposals received only eight (8) were shortlisted. And whether shortlisted proposals were funded is different matter altogether. Anyway, in addition to state member contribution, the PPDF is funded with grant funding drawn from sources such as KfW, German stateowned development bank and from the EU amounting to not less than 16millon US dollars in total. Utilisation of these funds suggests that funding must have been committed by the end of 2016 otherwise it will be lost and must have been disbursed by the end of 2018. How many intra-regional strategic projects has Tanzania participated out of these funds? Despite the fact that there is mounting thrust amongst the SADC member states and other donors to finalise certain key unsettled issues in order to allow the setting up and operationalization of the fund as a instrument to mobilise innovative resources, I would like to call upon SADC member states to move away from funding sources where countries simply ask for more assistance or grants to financing its own strategic projects. Because I believe within the SADC region members’ environment is now suitable to attract in-house private investment. Studies have made it known that on average, assistance especially from donor nations especially grants has not been as effective as is desirable and may have nurtured a culture of aid dependency. Equally, the full picture given for poor assistance effectiveness in the continent that also include SADC member states, suggest that corrective measures would need to be adopted, if progress determined in our businesses environment is to be realized for the benefit of the people within the continent. It might be a subject of heated debate, but any honestly development analyst would agree that Africa that housed some of SADC states members has not benefited from the remarkable growth from aid or from foreign investment, compared say to East Asia etc. Why? Deep down into the pages, are policy challenges to attract foreign investment that might consist of among others; supportive macroeconomic policy and legal and regulatory structures and the rule of law and the execution of contracts to the functioning social and economic infrastructure, financial sector reforms and support for capital markets development and significantly restrained and explicit attention to the concerns of investor’s risk rating agencies to mention a few. Apart from the fact that tiny FDI previously went to industry or services, where there were the greatest prospects for technology transfer to sustain the development process, the foreign-funded manufacturing sector, which was dominated by importsubstituting industries in many member states, kept on being fragile, basically because import liberalization has undesirably affected their shares of the domestic market, furthermore to large currency devaluations which have weakened currency rates of return in foreign currency terms. Against these structures to attain fully implementation of regional infrastructure projects will need stronger regional cooperation. We need a cooperation that will be ready to seek to arrive at a clear understanding of the SADC member states’ overarching the bloc vision including in terms of: what activities SADC state members should undertake; how these activities should be structured; how big these activities should be; how these activities should be capitalised and by whom; what legal form they should take and how decisions should be taken and by whom. These set of questions are vital for SADC heads of state and they support infrastructure to come up with workable strategy, because to-date it is being argued that Africa’s striving in enticing foreign investment is ascribed to the perception that investing in the region is a high-risk activity. This observation is ingrained in a number of inter- related factors, which in my opinion have given the region avoidable negative image, comprising poor human, social and economic infrastructure, fear of policy reversal, civil conflicts and an inadequate legal framework for the enforcement of contracts. Others are low levels of income and small market size, poor international competitiveness, weak domestic and uncoordinated private sectors, undeveloped domestic financial sectors and undeveloped capital markets are other key constraints to attracting private capital flows. Assessments of foreign investors show that, FDI goes to nations with a stable political and economic environment, transparent and minimal regulations, good infrastructure facilities, a skilled labour force and low production and transactions costs-much the same set of factors that encourage domestic investors. Therefore there is a need for SADC member states to make a paradigm shift towards a holistic consideration of all the sources of capital that can be mobilized towards sustainable development and move from traditional funding to a financing approach. Other areas that I think need consideration is how the private sector is engaged. Engaging the private sector are broadly understood by governments but, the same government lack understanding about the mechanics of how to do so at each step of the country planning and project cycle, with a view to identifying and financing a pipeline of relevant projects. Addressing the development finance challenge within SADC state members in my opinion requires four elements. One, national sustainable development goals and plans must be well developed and aligned to national government policies; two, member states must have a well-articulated pipeline of projects. This is important because to date research show that national efforts to translate a country are sustainable development priorities into a well-articulated pipeline of projects that enable a country to achieve those priorities. This remains perhaps the most significant gap that exists at the country level. Three, each SADC member states must have a national financing allocation process linked to their development goals. This means engaging with the private sector to pigeon-hole their pipeline of projects according to which investment types are ready to support individual projects. If necessary, member states may need to jerk projects to attract appropriate capital and lastly member states need a national strategic financing plan for their development goals based on a strategic assessment of sustainable development needs. With a project pipeline to achieve its goals and a strategic allocation and plan for financing those goals, it will be better prepared to engage sources of funding and financing. By adhering to these suggestions and equipping member states with the right tools and capacity to avoid the above pitfalls—the SADC region could see a successful shift from the funding toward the financing model of their strategic development projects. This approach has been largely absent in a number of member states and no doubt, the 39th Summit of heads of state and government of the bloc will come-up with a robust strategy that would help the region to overcome these encounters.