THERE has been a tremendous heated debate on the value of Higher Education in an individual holding degree and his/ her contribution to peoples’ development. These debates occurring in the social media have been triggered by un-calculated utterance of a popular Professor and incumbent minister. The professor was alleged to have testified that he was picked-up from slums and elevated in life to the ministerial position by His Excellence the President Dr John Pombe Magufuli. The utterances came within a short period of time when a similarly highly learned, PhD holder and Regional Commissioner (RC) cried and complained at a public event that he is a destitute and pleaded for mercy and favour from the president to retain him in a government employment. The Professor’s utterance coupled with the reaction of the fired Regional Commissioner from public office was received by the public as a testimony of ‘weakness and how useless’ it is to labour so much to attain higher academic certificates, which cannot ensure one survival in life. Here the academically failed individuals got a forum and were up in the discussion and to some extent got a reason to justify why they did not invest so much efforts to attain higher education during their time(s) in school. In the social media discussion, it was evident that the public expects a PhD holder to have individual social and economic prosperity in line with the academic achievements. And that a highly learned person is free from the politicians’ goodwill and favours, but the contrary is being observed, and that most highly learned persons are forced to humble themselves in front of senior government and politicians, as if their existence are at the mercy of these public leaders. Even though this is just an individual matter, still the two examples of the behaviour of the Professor and the PhD crier, casted a dark shadow in the education system in terms of preparing graduates to bring solutions to social and economic challenges, and their ability to survive without getting mercy from senior leaders. Generally, the duo ashamed the whole fraternity of PhDs and students, who are studying and lack direction, wisdom, and knowledge, as well as understanding on how things work outside the realm of academics. It should be noted that the pursuit of Higher Education is not for personal gains in terms of economic prosperity and wealth attainment. However, the Masters and PhDs are designed to work and find solutions to public or community problems and challenges. This fact and impact of learned persons in the lives of the public, probably has not been well communicated and the public still thinks that one who is well educated has stopped to be a human being with same desires and needs. For example, the change of malaria treatment from Chloroquine to Coarterm as first line treatment was as a result of evidence generated from scholarly research. But also, the introduction of diseases’ resistant crops, and discovery of machineries as well as health interventions are as a result of laborious work conducted by people in research and in the academia. The gains of their hard work are not reflected in their respective individual self-prosperities. To demean Higher Ed- 986180001 ucation is like to turn away and pretend to be unaware of the benefits the grassroots people are enjoying. Medical doctors are highly trained and academically successful, but are not rich simply because they do not charge actual prices for the services they render to their clients. Medical doctors enjoy seeing their patients recovering and in turn resume to their routine activities. Another wrong perception is the generalization drawn from Bill Gates and other similarly rich people, who only made it to Colleges and dropped out. In fact, attaining the highest degree is an achievement in the academia and cannot be compared with one becoming a wealthy businessman, because business and academia are two different disciplines. A degree is a merit and an evidence of one being successful in the education sphere. At the same time it is a seed for social and economic transformation. Note, successful businessmen and women are being advised to employ academically successful persons to work on their investments, because they lack the knowledge and skills of the educated person(s). However, it is obvious that a PhD or Master degree holder cannot work in isolation. There must be a conducive environment to foster application of the knowledge and skills attained during training. A degree is like a seed which need suitable soil to germinate and grow, and remember the teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ put in this perspective in a practical sense. The teachings of Jesus are written in the gospel of Mathew Chapter 13 verse one to nine, where He described four types of soils. Of the four types of soils only one type supported the seed to germinate and brought the expected fruits. The other seeds which were on the other three types of soils never proved useful. Based on the teaching of Jesus Christ it is only 25 per cent of the seeds were successful. Similarly, the people of Tanzania must prepare suitable working environment to enable their learned fellows to apply their education and realize the expected results. It is also unfortunate when some highly learned people expose themselves in baseless talks and scenes only to be laughed at, that they never engaged their brains in time to reason and foresee the outcomes of their behaviours. This therefore, sends a dark shadow to the country’s education system, which is expected to prepare graduates to become think tanks and offer solutions to social and economic challenges in the society. Lack of confidence among academicians must be addressed right from the College and graduates should be ready to stand on their own. The spirit of self-reliance, hard work and entrepreneurship skills need to be impacted at the time of schooling. A graduate’s exposure to practical attachment and internship training are crucial in turning his/her mind to think outside his/her Classroom theoretically and transform what he/she learnt practically for the benefit of the society and not as an individual to mint money. Finally, graduates must distance themselves from being threatened, used or forced to humble themselves to politicians in expectation of appointment into public offices. Politics is a career which is opened for anyone at any time and a highly trained or simply a holder of Primary Education can also participate in it. Basically, there is formal and informal training for one to become a politician, what matters is one becoming a good orator, brave and courageous to convince people in the public. A PhD is noble achievement in the academic realm, and the holder is expected to be a leader and not a destitute crying for help and measure his/her success with money in bank account. We need to encourage students to work hard in School, Colleges and Universities and come back to solve public problems, but not look for avenues with their professions to make personal money and wealth.