SACKED national team, Taifa Stars Head Coach, Emmanuel Amunike has expressed his satisfaction with the work he did in Tanzania. On Monday, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) confirmed parting ways with the former Nigerian international, following the team’s dismal performance in the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt. Under Amunike tutelage Taifa Stars lost all their three group stage matches. They began their campaign with a 2-0 loss to Senegal, then 3-2 loss to Kenya and ended with voluminous 3-0 defeat at the hands of Algeria. Amunike was relieved of his duties, just 11 months since taking charge of the team. But Amunike holds his head high after qualifying Tanzania for AFCON for the first time in 39 years. “I have done my best to qualify the team to AFCON for the first time since 39 years and we had a mission to forge ahead when we got to the tournament but the results did not go our way,” he said. “Along with my assistant coaches, we have done our best and I have to move on. I want to thank the people of Tanzania for giving the opportunity to serve them in that capacity. He stressed that he held talks with his employers, TFF, as regards the contract he signed with them. “The Federation was good to me but then their football development must not be tied to me. We talked about our contract, we looked at contents, and of course, there is always common ground,” “They (TFF) say they want an indigenous coach. And of course, this business is about coming and going. The former Barcelona, Sporting Lisbon and Zamalek winger said he’s leaving his role in Tanzania in order to move forward. “My own journey in life should also not be stagnant in a place hence I have to move on and my journey in life must continue. For now, I want to reunite with my family because it’s been long since we are together.” “I’m happy with my players, I’m proud of their achievement even in defeat. Morocco coach was relieved of his duty. Same also for Egyptian coach and Uganda. That’s how it goes and one has to move forward. “I was somewhere before I came here (Tanzania) and of course, life is not static, it evolves so one has to think forward.” TFF, however didn’t mention the Amunike’s heir, but promised to unveil the interim coach after the executive committee’s emergency meeting to be held tomorrow in Dar es Salaam. The federation Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo said the new caretaker will be assigned to lead the team that will compete for a ticket to play in African Championship of Nations (CHAN). Under Amunike Taifa Stars have played 10 matches, they have won two, drew two and lost six. Earlier on Saturday, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe had told reporters that he had confidence in coach Amunike, saying the Nigerian legend would deliver if given time. The 46-year-old 1996 Olympic Gold medalist became the third coach casualty of the 32nd of the continent most prestigious competition after Egypt terminated the contract of Javier Aguirre. Uganda parted ways with Sebastien Desabre after they were eliminated from the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations.