PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday issued several directives to government officials with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism directed to form a national park from Selous Game Reserve. It was during the historic event to lay the foundation stone for the 2,115MW Rufiji Hydropower Project worth 6.8tri/- in Rufiji, Coast Region, yesterday. According to President Magufuli, despite Selous Game Reserve being the country’s vast wildlife with 50,000 square kilometres, it has been of littlesignificance in terms of revenue contribution to the public coffers. He said despite the game reserve having 47 hunting blocks with expensive hotels, including some that could charge up to $3,000 (over 6m/-) per night per room its contribution to the public coffers was dismal. He said forming the national park would help turn around Selous Game Reserve by inviting more tourists, who would, in the near future, be touring Nyerere Hydropower Dam as it would serve as a tourist attraction. “By directing the establishment of the national park I don’t mean that hunting blocks should be wiped out,” he said. He added: “The hydropower project will be named Julius Nyerere Hydropower Dam because it is not only a historic event marking a new dawn of bringing real transformation of the economic sector, but also realising the dream of the Founding Father of the Nation and first President  of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.” To utilise effectively the hydropower dam and the new national park, President Magufuli directed the Tanzania National Road Agency (Tanroad) to start conducting a feasibility study of the 60km stretch of the road from Fuga, where there is railway junction with the hydropower dam site and to utilise about 5bn/-, which was the smuggled money and gold returned by the Kenyan government to finance the project. Moreover, President Magufuli directed the Ministry of Energy to ensure the project was insured and guaranteed by the government. “The mega Rufiji Hydropower Project is implemented by the government and it should be insured and guaranteed by the government and not otherwise,” he insisted. President Magufuli directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to make sure work permits for foreign experts working in the Rufiji Hydropower Project were issued on time. “The work permits should be issued to only experts with knowledge and skills not available in the country,” he noted. He said also the Ministry of Energy should ensure Morogoro and Coast residents living near the project were given priority in jobs the project would provide. Furthermore, President Magufuli directed security organs to take charge of all security so that all activities and operations during the entire period of project implementation were done without any interference. The project is expected to be completed in 2022, but President Magufuli appealed to contractors to speed up the construction and finish the work on time. President Magufuli said the hydropower project paved the way for the construction of industries due to availability of affordable and reliable power. “When the mega hydropower project is completed, the cost of electricity will automatically go down. This will also lower production costs, resulting in a reduction in prices of goods and services,” he added. He added: “To reach the middle-income economy we need reliable and affordable electricity generated at low cost like Rufuji Hydropower Project.” He commended the Tanesco through the Rural Energy Agency (REA) for efficiency in connecting more rural population for which more than 7,400 villages were electrified compared to only 2,400 in 2015. Tanesco has managed to increase the number of customers to over 2,100 as of May this year compared to 1,474 a few years ago. It is projected that 75 per cent of all rural households will be connected by 2025 with the number rising to 100 per cent in 203