THE government has directed Regional Education Officers (REOs), and municipal, city and district executive directors to ensure that all promoted teachers receive their new salaries with effect from next month. The directive was issued yesterday by the Deputy Permanent Secretary in the President's Office, Mr Tixon Nzunda during his two-day official tour of Kigongo and Bukumbi Primary schools in Misungwi District. Kigongo and Bukumbi primary schools are among the schools that have been implementing the Child Opportunity Project from 2014 to 2018, with funding from the international organization Children in Crossfire (CIC). CIC deals with early upbringing and development of997950015children in partnership with Tanzania Home Economics Association (TAHEA). Mr Nzunda issued the order after he received complaints from some of the promoted school teachers who said they had received new salaries five months after their elevation. He said in addressing the rights and claims of teachers or other public servants, the government will never tolerate some leaders who have been suppressing their colleagues and ensure that they don’t succeed in getting their rights. “We want leaders who devote much of their time to resolve problems facing the public, including civil servants. In short, leaders should act as a bridge to facilitate success to others. In this context, I order you to address teachers’ complaints with regard to salary increment after promotion," he said. He said failure to pay new salaries to teachers after promotion brings about unnecessary stress to them, including causing accumulation of debt to the government, hence creating a burden. On his part, the CIC Country Director, Mr Craig Ferla said the project which is implemented in Misungwi, Ilemela and Nyamagana districts in Mwanza and Kilimanjaro regions aimed at reaching 25,000 children, but has surpassed the target by reaching 37,000 children who have been enrolled in pre-primary education program. He said the project involves a total of 370 teachers who have received practical training that helped them improve and change classroom appearances to become attractive to children and reduce absenteeism in school. On his part, the Assistant Education Director in the President's Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr George Jidamva urged education officers to create closeness with teachers to identify shortcomings and challenges they face in fulfilling their responsibilities. CIC has so far improved early education for around 36,000 children in more than 200 pre-schools and 120 government schools by training teachers and providing learning materials/books and supporting 2,000 vulnerable parents with around 8,000 children in poor areas of the country to develop good knowledge and practice towards their children.