NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars interim coach Etienne Ndayiragije said he needs to invest more time in his squad and understand his charges better before hosting Kenya. Taifa Stars go head to head against Harambee Stars at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Sunday for the first leg battle of the Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) 2020 qualifiers, whose finals will be played in Ethiopia. The return match will be hosted at the Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya a week later, with the overall winner in both legs cruising into the next round of the tournament designed for domestic based players. Taifa Stars camp is full throttle, shaping up for the clash and going into the match, Burundian trainer Ndayiragije is confident that Stars will knock out Harambee Stars and march into the next round of the qualifiers. The home team has already started preparations even though some players who were named in the 26 member squad are yet to join the camp from their respective clubs, which went for pre-season camp outside Dar es Salaam and country respectively. Commenting on the game, Ndayiragije said he is proud with the team and sees prosperity in the players. “Initially we focused on warm up and talked with players to make sure that they are mentally fit, motivated and ready for the match. “So far, we have been doing simple training sessions to bring the boys back into the camp atmosphere before starting serious business. I am yet to have the full team but within these two days (Tuesday and Wednesday), the squad will be balanced,” Ndayiragije said. Ndayiragije also revealed that he has been working closely with the team’s medical staff as one way of assessing fitness of players which he described as not bad and is looking forward to see their potential. “I’m working closely with the medical staff to check them (players) and almost all of them are in good shape. I’m proud of this squad and waiting for seven more players from Simba to join the team’s camp. The coach also said he is taking his time to find out how their opponents Kenya play so as to build his squad accordingly and be able to contain them. “We have a good squad and we are determined to win this game but we are also aware that Kenya is a tough side, they play physical game and we need to be at our best to counter their physicality. “They (Kenya) use a lot of energy on the field that is why we want to seek the best solution on how we can easily neutralise them and emerge winners on the day,” he said. On his part, Taifa Stars Manager Nadir Haroub Ally lauded the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for recognising his contribution towards developing football standards in the country by picking him to occupy the key position. “I am privileged to work as the national team manager and I will work abreast with both players and technical bench as a means to drive further our team,” he said. The former Star’s skipper added that he is going to sacrifice himself to the new job and let everybody complement him that he is the right man to occupy the hot post. He also pointed out that he has already started talking with some players of the team, to psychologically put them well ahead of the epic match late this month.