TANZANIA, through the Medical Store Department (MSD) has intensified efforts to boost domestic production of pharmaceutical products by encouraging investments through the Public Private Partnership (PPP) framework. MSD Director General Laurean Bwanakunu said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that investments in the pharmaceutical industry under PPP will reduce importation of medicines and medical supplies besides creating jobs for Tanzanians. He said available statistics from Tanzania Local Pharma Strategy Paper of 2016 show that the market need for medicines, medical devices and lab reagents for the country reached 457 million US dollars (about 1tri/-) annually. Speaking at the International Pharmaceuticals Investors Conference, which brought together domestic, foreign and prospective investors in the pharmaceutical sector, Mr Bwanakunu said that Tanzania has been spending lots of funds in procuring pharmaceutical requirements overseas. He said that 85 per cent of the department’s funds was being spent in importation of pharmaceutical products. “In order to reduce this dependency on medicines and medical supplies from overseas, MSD championed an idea to invest in pharmaceutical industry through PPP framework,” he said. Mr Bwanakunu said to facilitate its implementation, MSD contracted a consultant to conduct a feasibility study, which has established that the envisaged project is financially viable and bankable and can be executed through PPP framework. He said that through the feasibility study, three plants were proposed to be set up in different areas. One plant that will produce I.V (Intravenous) fluids will be in Mbeya, another for medical cotton products in Mwanza and the third for general pharmaceuticals in Kibaha, Coast region. The DG said that the factories will reduce not only the costs incurred for importation of pharmaceuticals but also offer jobs to over 800 Tanzanians. He further detailed that Tanzania was lagging behind in pharmaceutical industry, noting that to date the country has only five factories while the neighbouring Kenya has 45 factories. He added that the pharmaceutical imports have been denying employment to majority Tanzanians who could grab the opportunity if the factories could have been set up in the country. MSD Project Manager Engineer Fred Pondamali said that the department procures over 8 5 per cent of pharmaceutical requirements from overseas to serve 7 ,519 health facilities across the country. He said through the procurement procedures, the department spent up to six months to complete a single procurement circle to get all the products into the country. “We normally procure these products in bulk, sometimes we need to have an inventory that caters for up to nine months thus increasing the inventory management cost,” he said. PPP Commissioner from the Ministry of Finance and Planning Dr John Mboya said that the setting up of the three plants was a huge investment that was expected to cost 1.18 9 tri/-. “We are determined to make sure that this project is beneficial to the country” he added. In his opening remarks, Minister for Industry and Trade Innocent Bashungwa assured existing and prospective investors as well as the business community in the pharmaceutical and medical supplies industry that the government was working hard to create an enabling environment to conduct business. “The government is clearing a way of making Tanzania a good place for business...we are working hard to create an enabling environment for doing business in the way that reduces costs and red tape,” he said. The minister noted that the Finance Act of the current fiscal year has removed 54 nuisance taxes and levies, which were impeding implementation of the business blue print. Mr Bashungwa also noted that the government was ready to receive recommendations on legislations that need to be revised for smooth execution of the PPP framework. Potential investors present at the MSD organised conference, apart from Tanzanians, were from the US, Rwanda, Kenya, India, United Arab Emirates, Czech Republic and Pakistan.