GOVERNMENT secondary schools, especially ward schools and their students, excelled in 2019 Form VI National Exam results (Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (ACSEE) results of 2019), which were released on Thursday. Apart from featuring two ward government schools among the best 10 schools, out of 100 best performing schools, 64 are government schools, out of which, 52 are ward government schools. Among the best 10 students in science subjects, five are from government schools, two of whom are from ward schools while among top 10 students in art subjects, seven are from government schools. Minister of State in the President’s Office-Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Seleman Jafo, attributed the achievements to huge investments in the education sector. The minister made the revelation yesterday in Dodoma when he was giving the ACSEE results’ evaluation, urging parents and guardians to stop ignoring public schools’ selections for their children as education provision in those schools keeps on improving. He said that according to the evaluation, public schools, especially ward-oriented ones did the best, in comparison to yesteryears. “In the best 10, four schools are public owned ones. Two out of those four, which are Kasimiri and Mwandet in Arusha, are ward-oriented and Mwandeti number four. Tabora Boys ranked number five and Kibaha number six,” he noted. In 2018 ACSEE results, he said, Kibaha was ranked number one while Kisimiri was number two at national level. From number (position) 11 to 20, six schools were public ones, which were Ilboru, Nachingwea, Mzumbe, Mwanamwema, Tabora girls and Dareda. Out of best 100 schools, 64 were public owned ones and 52 out of those 64 were of wards. Twelve were oldest and with special talents. “On the list of best students in science, language, arts and commerce subjects, those from public schools seemed to have superseded their counterparts. Five students are from public schools and two of them from ward schools, including Temeke secondary school, one of schools which passed through various challenges to extent that we were about to close it down,” revealed the minister. Apart from infrastructure and school equipment, the government has also invested in human resources as schools currently have 30 to 40 teachers each, in comparison to five to six in the past. Minister Jafo appreciated the work done by teachers and Regional Commissioners of Tabora, Coast and Arusha as well as other actors in those regions whose schools did the best.