TANZANIA’s business climate is promising as the government embarks on various new strategies to boost investments in line with the country’s industrialization agenda. This is the message that the Kamal Group chairman, Mr Gagan Gupta, presented at the Metec 2019 trade fair in the German city of Düsseldorf. Briefing reporters after returning from Germany where he was a panelist at the four-day International Metallurgical Trade Fair with Congresses, Mr Gupta said his role at the conference transcended that of an investor in the steel industry. “My role was to speak about investment opportunities in Tanzania. It was much of telling investors from across the world who gathered at the event that Tanzania is a place of choice for those who want to do business in Africa,” he said, playing an audio of what he told fellow investors at the event. Ranking the Metec as one of the largest trade fair events in the world, Mr Gupta said he was lucky to have been invited by one of the event’s key players, Africon and became a panelist to explain what it was like to do business in Tanzania. “I told them that having been in Tanzania for over 15 years, all we can say is that it is the best place for one to do business. …I did not tell them about the steel sector alone but rather, the entire economy and its growth momentum,” he said. He said the aim was to ensure that more and more investors come to join their counterparts in Tanzania so that together, they can advance the government’s industrialization goals. “The investors there wanted to hear from the horse’s mouth…I told them that President John Magufuli is undertaking great changes in Tanzania so that businesses can operate without being subjected to corruption and bureaucracy. The President himself meets and listens to grievances of members of the business community and acts on them accordingly,” he said. He said as members of the business community, it was for them to join hands with the government in promoting Tanzania as a preferred investment destination. “It is our responsibility as investors to tell people outside about the business environment in Tanzania so that our colleagues can actually join us. That way, we will surely industrialize this country,” he said. Organized jointly by GIFA, METEC, THERMPROCESS and NEWCAST, the event offers a platform for meetings and business. It brings together international buyers, users, experts and decision makers from the metallurgy, heat technology and foundry industries to four events that cut across seminars and symposiums, special exhibits and technology forums as well as international congresses and lecture series.