THE Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF) has collected 1.7bn/- in the past eight months from legal suits filed against some defiant employers, thanks to the new Act that established it. Speaking to reporters at a seminar in Dar es Salaam yesterday, PSSSF Legal Officer Nicander Kileo said Section 62 (1) and (2) of The Public Service Social Security Fund Act, 2018 provided for an opportunity to PSSSF to treat unremitted contributions as debts. According to Mr Kileo, the collected amount of contributions resulted from the total of 106 cases filed against some defiant employers. Section 62(1) reads: “Every statutory contribution and other contributions payable under this Act shall be a debt due to the Board, and may be recovered by way of summary suit at the instance of the Director General at any time within twelve years after the date on which it was due”. Subsection (2) says: “In a case where a defendant applies for leave to defend, the trial court shall, before granting leave, require the defendant to deposit a sum equal to the contributions being claimed in the suit as security for due performance of the decree that may be entered against the defendant.” He said it was important for employers to remit employees’ contributions to avoid unnecessary inconveniences on both sides, saying timely remittance of contributions helps to, among other issues, do away with complaints from employees and retirees. For his part, PSSSF Compliance Manager Victor Kikoti reminded employees to regularly track their contributions to ascertain if they were duly remitted. “Despite PSSSF having its mechanism of tracing compliance on the part of employers it is equally important for employers to track their contributions,” he noted. He said PSSSF was moving fast in terms of improving its services, including settling payments (pensions) to its members. Giving an example, Mr Kikoti said they had begun effecting payments online instead of writing cheques. PSSSF Chief Public Relations Officer Eunice Chiume said the management of the fund would continue sensitising members and the public on its operations to do away with misinformation. PSSSF was formed last year following the merger of the PPF Pension Fund, Public Service Pension Fund (PSPF), Local Authorities Pension Fund (LAPF) and Government Employees Provident Fund (GEPF).