HIGHER learning institutions in the country are pursuing various strategies to commercialise and ease availability of student innovated technologies in the market. The universities have among others embarked on the search for sponsors to help easing availability of the new technologies at affordable costs. The University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) has in this academic year allocated about 1bn/- to research activities, including developing the new technologies, which have been discovered by students. UDSM’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre (UDIEC) Director Dr Ambrose Itika told the ‘Daily News’ recently that the varsity has acquired fund from Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) to support UDIEC, which is currently incubating about 50 innovations that were produced in the last academic year. “We are still brainstorming on other approaches because the university is capable of producing over 1,000 new innovations, annually. We would like to have all of them developed and put into markets but financial shortage remains a serious impediment,” said Dr Itika. He said UDSM has selected not over 400 best projects for development but its capacity is to develop only 50 innovations. The director further elaborated that selecting the best projects was a matter of prioritisation on what is highly demanded in markets, though all the new innovations are worthy developing .UDSM Head of Agricultural Engineering Dr Arnold Towo called on all Tanzanian innovators to adopt spin-off companies, knowledge transfer and industrial partnership systems to ease commercialisation and provide the society with affordable technologies. He explained that about three systems were collaboration between two or more parties, with each contributing what it has— fund, expertise or space/laboratories— to ease development of the new technologies. “Collaboration is what has worked in the developed countries… let us emulate them for the sake of fighting against youth unemployment as well as promoting industrialisation,” said Dr Towo. Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) has also acquired 11 million Euro (over 28bn/-) from the Italian government for installment of what is called ‘within wall incubator’ in the institute’s campus. It is a four-storey building whose construction is expected to start this month, according to DIT Principal Professor Preksedis Ndomba. Professor Ndomba implored all innovators to unite and go for their products’ standardisation and mass production to meet the market requirements and demand. “We as well ask for laws and policies to promote home made products to guarantee the market for Tanzanian goods. DIT has already gone an extra mile by introducing the institute’s trading company to assure our potential customers that we have a legally run business,” he said. Reached for the comments, Minister for Industry and Trade Innocent Bashungwa said the government is on the process to review both trade policy of 2003 and industry policy of 1996-2020. “The aim is to promote application of new technologies in all spheres… Tanzania in on transition period to industrial economy, application of modern technologies is of utmost importance,” he said.