PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday challenged the country’s universities and colleges to find means of expanding student enrolment to enable the country have enough skills for the envisaged industrial economy. The premier noted with concern that Tanzania was still behind other countries in the African region in terms of youth enrollment in tertiary institutions. Statistics indicate that in every 100 Tanzanian youth of about 25 years, only three of them were in higher learning institutions. This is below other countries, with their youth enrollment ratios in brackets—Kenya (4:100), Zambia (4:100) and Namibia (14:100). “The Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU), in collaboration with stakeholders should put in place strategies to boost enrolment,” Mr Majaliwa told the TCU in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He was opening an exhibition of higher learning institutions, an annual TCU organised event. The premier told TCU and the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE) to help the private higher learning institutions in addressing their challenges since they were critical stakeholders in providing higher learning education to Tanzanians. “You should also help them increase enrollment, don’t just always act against their weaknesses by closing them down,” he stated. Meanwhile, Mr Majaliwa directed TCU to ensure that the agents of foreign universities operating in the country have the list of universities that are recognised by the country’s accreditation authorities. “I now direct TCU to identify those agents and should verify qualifications of students whom they want to link with foreign universities whether they meet the country’s standards for joining particular courses,” he stressed. Earlier, Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology William Ole Nasha said the ministry in collaboration with the private sector players has formed sectoral skills councils which are expected to help universities to establish curricula that will lead to competent-based education at higher learning institutions. Explaining over the exhibition, TCU Executive Secretary Professor Charles Kihampa said the ongoing 14th exhibition at Mnazi Mmoja grounds has attracted 8 1 participating institutions. “With 66 local institutions and 15 foreign institutions, this year’s exhibition is generally successful,” Prof Kihampa noted. One of the participating domestic universities, the Open University of Tanzania (OUT), welcomed the premier’s challenge to increase enrolment. “It is really important for us to increase enrollment because without doing so the envisaged industries will lack enough skilled manpower,” Dr Mohamed Maguo, Director of Communications and Marketing of the OUT, concurred. He said OUT was glad that TCU has now recognised the foundation programme offered at the university as part of pathways to join universities in the country. Previously, the entry qualifications were ‘A’ level education, diploma or related qualifications Global Education Link (GEL) Executive Director Abdulmalik Molel, one of the agents for foreign universities, said it was important for foreign universities agents to cross-check with TCU over the credibility of their foreign universities before sending Tanzanian students, lest the country loses money and wastes time. “Confirmation will help parents from losing their money and students from wasting their time because at the end, TCU will not recognise their certificates when they return home after graduating,” Mr Mollel advised. He added that since 2007, GEL ensured that it sought recognition certificate from TCU for each foreign university that it wanted to send Tanzanian students.