THE National Electoral Commission (NEC), has issued a stern warning against individuals who will attempt to sabotage the ongoing updating of the permanent voters’ register. NEC Chairman, Judge Semistocles Kaijage said here yesterday that those trying to disrupt the exercise will squarely be dealt with by the government. “Let me warn those trying to sabotage this exercise in one way or another, either by giving false information or attempting to register twice… the culprits will be easily identified and punitive measures will be instituted against them,” cautioned the NEC chairman ahead of the updating exercise which will be officiated by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa here today. Judge Kaijage further assured Kilimanjaro residents that preparations for the much awaited voters’ register updating exercise were in top gear, noting that a total of 37 ,407 voting registration centres had already been earmarked in Tanzania Mainland while 407 will be operational in the Isles. According to the NEC Chairman, the exercise will involve registration of new voters who attained 18 years, or are expected to turn that age come October next year. “This updating exercise will also include providing new voting cards to potential voters who lost their voting cards, as well as for those whose cards were issued by the Electoral Commission in 2015 but got destroyed, as well as correcting information which resulted from mistakes made during issuing voters card in 2015,” he clarified. Through the countrywide exercise, NEC is set to update its voter registration list and include more than 4 million new voters this year. The process which commenced in August 2018 targets to improve the registration system. Updating of the voters’ register also seeks to expunge names of people who have died and those whose voting rights had been suspended due to various reasons. Section 15(5) of the National Elections Act(Cap 343 ) requires the electoral commission to review the Permanent National V oters’ Register twice; between a period commencing immediately after the General Election and the date preceding the nomination day for the next General Election.