THE race to 2020 election polls is slowly gaining momentum and the government warned here yesterday it will weigh efficiency of ward councillors in managing empowerment funds and whether they retain or surrender their posts. Next year, Tanzania will head for a general election involving ward councillors, members of the parliament and the presidency. According to Political Parties law and the National Elections Act, 2010, the posts are open to any eligible candidate. Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan announced yesterday that the government will adopt the new strategy to ensure the taxpayers fund reach the intended recipients but not a selected group of voters. Records from the Prime Minister’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Governments, show that the government has been allocating 56.8bn/- in (2016/17), about 61.6bn/- in (2017/18) and 53.8bn/- in 2018/19 as empowerment funds to support women, youth and people with disabilities. However, according to the vice president only a selective number from each council had been benefiting. The managers of the empowerment funds who are ward councillors tend to release the funds for a political vote, she said. Citing women empowerment funds which has increased from 3.4bn/- in 2015/16 to 16.3bn/- in 2017/18, Ms Samia noted a large number of women has not benefited. “It is the job of councillors to ensure that all people especially women benefit from the government- supported funds without bias. The government is implementing a series of actions to ensure that both women and children enjoy equal opportunities,” she stressed. The Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said the councils were issuing between 500,000/- and 1.5m/-, the amount not adequate for a group of entrepreneurs planning to grow. “I suggest that the minimum loan be 10m/- and should be as high as 50m/- ... this is the only way these women can also expand their businesses,” she noted. The minister was of the view that supporting women without bias will help to improve the welfare of the family and the community. The vice president was launching a project seeking to eliminate gender based violence in Dodoma and Shinyanga, an initiative of the Association of Local Authorities in Tanzania (ALAT). The new project is especially seeking to improve and promote gender equality in public and market places in particular.