ATTORNEY General (AG) Prof Adelardus Kilangi has ordered lawyers providing legal services in public institutions in mainland Tanzania against practising as private advocates. The AG directive will affect lawyers from all ministries, government institutions and agencies, independent departments, authorities, public entities and regional administrations. The AG Office had been receiving reports and complaints over law officers, state attorneys and legal officers in public service performing the contrary to the law, regulations and procedures. “These servants are required to comply with the Office of the Attorney General (Discharge of Duties) Regulations, 2006,” the AG said in his recently issued directive to the legal service departments and lawyers in the ministries, independent departments, authorities, public entities and regional administration. Prof Kilangi pointed out that his office has already issued a statement on the matter and had clarified to the Principal Judge of the High Court that the government was not barring public servants to be sworn in as private advocates for the purposes of protecting their seniority in the bar. “It is also not restricted for these lawyers to attend and vote at the Tanganyika Law Society sessions. What is being prohibited is the provision of licence to state attorneys that enable them to perform private functions,” he stated. Clarifying the matter further, the “Attorney Number One” in the country stated that according to the Office of the Attorney General (Re-structure) Order of 2018, together with the Office of the Attorney General (Discharge of Duties) Act, all lawyers in public services are state attorneys. The lawyers, he said, were implementing duties of the Attorney General in the ministries, government institutions and agencies, independent departments, authorities, public entities and regional administrations. The AG was, however, quick to point out that, “This qualification applies only to those who provide legal services to public institutions. This condition does not apply to professional lawyers who don’t provide legal services, for example, lecturers in public institutions.” Under Regulation 6(3) of the Office of the Attorney General (Discharge of Duties) Regulations, he said, the state attorney has the right to enjoy the privileges attached to advocates, save for charging fees to the extent prohibited by law and the law governing employment in public service. The AG further stated that under Regulation 8 of the same Regulations of 2006, all law officers, state attorneys or legal officers providing legal services in public services shall not become practicing advocates. “Based on these conditions, it is clear that though some lawyers in public services are enrolled as advocates, they don’t have right to perform functions as advocates while still in public service. The purpose for their enrollment is just to keep their seniority in the bar and not otherwise,” he insisted. Professor Kilangi reminded lawyers in public service that they are all state attorneys and have to comply with the Rules and public services ethics as set out in the Public Service Regulations of 2003. He said it should be known that even where the state attorney retires from public service, he or she is not allowed to represent a client or being an arbitrator or mediator in any matter he had worked upon when he was the lawyer for the government or public institution.