ZANZIBAR President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein has urged all public servants, including those occupying high offices, to observe professional codes of ethics in execution of their duties. Dr Shein issued the call in Urban West region when he graced the opening of the Public Service Week in Zanzibar, an event that attracted senior government officials and a section of other public servants from government institutions and agencies. “Public service is the steering wheel though which the government takes services to the citizens and its main objective is to bring about people’s development,” Dr Shein said. “The government has only two main duties; to serve the country and to serve the citizens and we’re supposed to look for instruments to serve the citizens so that they can benefit,” he insisted. He told public servants that their motive in seeking public jobs should be to serve the people rather than pursuing own interests and warned against business as usual behaviour in the public service. “We must work according to the laws, rules and regulations, the leaders must have professional ethics, best qualities and best practices,” charged the Isles President who also urged the government workers to be creative in their working places. Dr Shein told senior public servants to be creative and catalysts for changes and avoid embroiling in dysfunctional conflicts, insisting that true and sustainable development will only be possible if workers put in hard work and communicate effectively. “You must be the change you want to see and lead by examples, a leader should be a role model to his or her subordinates,” he said adding; “Public service does not thrive on conflicts and government activities will not be accomplished if there’s internal wrangling.” Dr Shein also warned against corruption in the public service as he reiterated government’s commitment to fighting corruption, citing the establishment of Zanzibar Public Leaders Code of Ethics and Ethics Commission as among measures which the government took to address the vices. He said the number of public leaders who are declaring their assets has kept rising, reaching 1727 in the 2018/19 financial year as compared to 1664 in the preceding year. Minister for Public Service and Good Governance Haroub Ali Suleiman lauded President Shein for improving workers’ welfare and supervising legal and policy reforms in the public service sector. The minister said during his reign, almost nine years now, President Shein increased salary for public workers four times and doubled the minimum wage from 150,000/- to 300,000/-. Public Service Week is an annual event to appreciate the work of the public service while inspiring public officers to live their values and ethos. The event was also attended by second Vice-President Ambassador Seif Ali Idd and senior government ministers.