TANZANIA Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) intends to extend natural gas connection to Morogoro, Dodoma and Tanga regions soon to reduce the cost of energy consumption. The new connections will bring to seven the total regions with natural gas for domestic use. The other beneficiary regions are Dar es Salaam, Cost, Lindi and Mtwara, which have already been connected. Energy experts are currently on the final stage of the feasibility study with about 2bn/- set aside for the study, TPDC Research Officer Engineer Limi Lagu said yesterday at the on-going 43th Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair. She said the natural gas distributions encourage industrialisation drive while individuals and institutions benefit from the cost-cuts in various ways, including vehicles conversion from fuel to natural gas system and low price for domestic cooking. Engineer Lagu confirmed affordability in natural gas uses, revealing that there is 30 per cent saving in industries, which initially used Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) and 40 per cent cost-cuts in transport/vehicles, which initially run on petroleum. She further noted that there is 30 per cent in cost-cut in institutions, which used Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) and 35 per cent in homes that shifted from charcoal. “This is according to Petroleum (Natural Gas Pricing Regulation of 2016) issued by the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA),” she said. She also affirmed that TPDC is set to distribute the natural gas in 1,000 households in Dar es Salaam and 300 in Mtwara, in the coming fiscal year. Chang’ombe, Mwenge, Sinza, Ubungo and Tegeta are among the targeted areas in Dar es Salaam. TPDC Geophysicist Faustine Kayombo urged the public to switch in to natural gas, assuring plenty availability of the resource, which can serve the country for over the next 50 years. There is 57.54 Cubic Feet (TCF) natural gas with 10.406 (TCF) extracted from land and 47.13 TCF from deepseas. “Only six per cent of the available natural gas is consumed. TPDC is eager to reach all Tanzanians and let people avoid costs they used to incur in their various activities, which involve energy consumption,” he said.