IN an effort to help women discover cervical cancer at early stages, the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH), through its maternity clinic, has embarked on a special programme to undertake free cervical cancer screening. A gynaecologist at the medical facility, Dr Caroline Damian, said here over the weekend that BMH came up with the idea to undertake the free cervical cancer screening after an increase of cancer cases, saying women can access the service at BMH on Tuesdays and Thursdays. “Over 80 per cent of women coming to hospitals for cervical cancer treatment do so at final stages, posing a serious challenge to cure the disease,” she said. Dr Damian explained that human papilloma virus infection (HPV) causes more than 90 per cent of cervical cancer cases and that about 70 per cent of cervical cancers occur in developing countries. “Free cervical cancer screening at BMH is to compliment the government’s efforts to curb the problem. We are all aware that the government is presently offering HPV vaccine to girls,” she said. Dr Damian urged women in Dodoma and neighbouring regions to use the opportunity of free cervical cancer screening service offered by BMH in order to detect cervical cancer at early stages of the problem. “I appeal to all women in the region and neighbouring regions to use this opportunity of free screening at BMH because cervical cancer patients may not experience any symptoms at early stages of the disease,” she observed. Dr Damian added that women going for cervical cancer screening at BMH will also have an opportunity to undergo free breast cancer screening. On her part, an oncologist at BMH, Dr Caroline Mrema, pointed out that treatment of cervical cancer consists some combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Making clarification on radiation therapy, Dr Mrema said it was not true that the therapy causes death as some people thought, adding that types of treatment for cervical cancer depends on patients’ health condition, age and stage of the disease.