THIS year marks the 55th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Tanzania. The fight against schistosomiasis in Pemba Island is one of the areas of the Sino-Zanzibar cooperation that people are enjoying. Health experts from China and the World Health Organisation (WHO), have been working with the Ministry of Health to implement this project. China has achieved the interruption of schistosomiasis transmission in most of its endemic areas through comprehensive strategies sustained over several decades. Now the populous nation is sharing its expertise through a jointly developed China-Africa-WHO collaboration for schistosomiasis–a disease widely found in many countries in Africa. The Zanzibar Elimination of Schistosomiasis Transmission (ZEST), project which started in 2011 also had other partners such as Schistosomiasis Consortium for Operational Research and Evaluation (SCORE–University of Georgia). It aims to eliminate urogenital schistosomiasis as a public health problem from Pemba. Schistosomiasis, also known as snail fever and bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic flatworms called schistosomes. The urinary tract or the intestines may be infected. Symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhoea, bloody stool, or blood in the urine. According to WHO, the disease is spread by contact with fresh water contaminated with the parasites, and those who have been infected for a long time may experience liver damage, kidney failure, infertility, or bladder cancer. In children, it may cause poor growth and learning difficulty. Methods to prevent the disease, as recommended by WHO), include improving access to clean water and reducing the number of snails, and that in areas where the disease is common, the medication praziquantel may be given once a year to the entire group. In a recent meeting with the Consular General of China consulate in Zanzibar, Mr Xie Xiaowu, Mr Yang Kun from ‘Jiangsu Institute of Parasitic Diseases-China, and Dr Dirk Engels from WHO, President Ali Mohamed Shein commended the partners for the successful pilot study in eliminating schistosomiasis. Mr Kun said that the success of the project in reducing the problem in Pemba Island is attributed to good cooperation with the people. “Zanzibar people are happy with development assistance from partners,” Dr Shein said. Mr Xiaowu said the traditional friendship between China and Tanzania was created and cultivated by the older generation leaders of the two countries. He said that the cooperation between the two sides in various fields is fruitful and has brought tangible benefits to the peoples of both sides. In 1964, China was the first country to recognize Zanzibar revolutionary government, and the first Chinese medical team was sent here. During this long period, the bilateral friendly cooperation in the field of healthcare has never stopped and this year marks the 29th batch of Chinese medical team. Since 1964, a total of 740 doctors have been sent to Zanzibar; More than seven million local patients were treated; More than 200,000 cases of various type of surgery performed; and more than 400,000 critical ill patients were rescued. The bilateral cooperation in the field of health care also includes the China-aided cervical cancer screening project which began in 2018 targeting to provide free medical examinations and surgery for 32,000 Zanzibar women over a four-year period. In addition, the Abdalla-Mzee Hospital in Pemba Island was also built by the Chinese government and regarded as the biggest hospital in the island. The construction of the hospital has greatly improved the conditions of the people in Pemba. Chinese doctors also provide training for local medical personnel along with using their spare time to go to the countryside giving free clinic treatment and sending medicines. As China-Tanzania celebrates 55 years of relations, Zanzibar has also benefited from support to improve public media. Between 2012 and 2018, more than 3,000 local people have received training, according to the Consular General. In the field of investment cooperation, the agreement on Sino-Zanzibar Fishery Cooperation was signed between the two governments during the Beijing summit of the forum on China-Africa Cooperation in September 2018. On June 17, 2019 the Sino-Zanzibar Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement was signed by representatives of the two governments in which the Chinese side will provide 100 million Yuan to the revolutionary government of Zanzibar as aid. Mr Xiaowu said this year also marks the beginning of the implementation of the outcomes of the Beijing summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). “Chinese will continue to provide assistance as much as we can to the economic and social development of Zanzibar and to promote Sino-Tanzania and Sino-Zanzibar friendly relations,” he said. China, WHO experts enhance fight against schistosomiasis PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein (middle-front row), with Chinese and World Health Organisation experts implementing a project to eliminate Schistosomiasis in Zanzibar. China has achieved the interruption of schistosomiasis transmission in most of its endemic areas through comprehensive strategies sustained over several decades. Now the populous nation is sharing its expertise through a jointly developed China-Africa-WHO collaboration for schistosomiasis–a disease widely found in many countries in Africa.