TANZANIA Custom officers at the Mutukula One Stop Border Post (OSBP) are at loggerheads with their Ugandan counterparts who have refused to operate for 24 hours. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Officers are now pointing an accusing finger on officers with the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) for hindering regional business growth following their decision of closing shop early when the border point is expected to operate day and night. In separate telephone interviews with this paper yesterday, the officers alleged that their Ugandan counterparts were affecting normal flow of operations at the border due to their early closure of office. TRA Acting Assistant Regional Manager in Kagera Said Mohammed told the ‘Daily News’ that traders were finding it difficult to ferry their goods and products across the border because of the Ugandan officers’ perceived laxity. “The conduct exhibited by the officers goes against the whole idea of establishing the OSBPs with the view of facilitating trade and free movement of goods in the region,” he said. Drivers of trucks are said to be bearing the most brunt, being forced to park their vehicles on the Tanzanian side every evening, waiting for the Ugandan customs office to open the following day, according to Mr Mohammed. While OSBP are meant to be in operation for a maximum of 24 hours, the Ugandan customs office closes at 8pm and opens at 8am the following morning. The Ugandan decision, according to Mr Mohammed, are also passengers and drivers plying between Bukoba and the neighbouring country. “Not once but twice, we have tried to engage our colleagues all to no avail,” he added. An officer in charge at the Mutukula border, Mr William Mkenda said the URA officers were now affecting the process of clearing cargo at the OSBP. “Once they clear with us, traders and passengers face the dilemma of crossing to Uganda as customs officials there are nowhere to be found,” he said. According to Mr Mkenda, it is only Ugandan immigration officers who work day and night at the border point. “They have been complaining of shortage of staff but that is something we cannot ascertain.” It is estimated that 418 vehicles pass through the Mutukula border point every day. Before commissioning of the OSBP, trucks and other vehicles used to take over a day on average to process through customs from Tanzania to Uganda.