I AM writing on something that is contentious. Self-styled zealots of democracy may cry foul. But with the freedom of expression bestowed on me by the Constitution, let me write it anyway. After all, I have learnt in life that no matter how noble an act may be, you will be criticized regardless. Remain steadfast! The onset of multiparty politics in the 1980s in Africa put a cap in the number of terms (or years), for political office bearers to stay in office. Those overstaying in power have been faulted for violating their Constitutions and denying citizens of their democratic rights to elect whom they like. I see it differently though! The tenures become a problem only when there’s failure in leadership, when there’s very little to celebrate or when corruption, injustice and bribery are rife. Many activists and advocacy groups “criminalize” the tenures only, but they overlook some key leadership traits such as performance and accountability. Term limits by themselves mean nothing. I would rather link or “tie” the tenures to excellence in performance of the elected leaders. Patriotic, committed and accountable leaders propel their countries. I would “reward” such leaders with longer tenures, and likewise, limit the tenures of ineffective ones to one term or even shorter; no matter how “democratic” they may be. It’s a mockery to the electorate and to a country to have a “democrat” (as defined by the west), when the economy on which he presides is a rot, “thieving” and economic “rape” are endemic or probity is lacking. The poor, who are the majority in our countries, suffer the most under such corrupt or ineffective regimes. Democracy devoid of economic development is useless. The history of developed countries suggests that prosperity preceded everything else. It was only after they had attained economic prosperity that they institutionalized “democratic” tenets such as the right to vote, tenures, freedom of expression and others. The real democracy is economic prosperity. Them telling us otherwise is deceitful. We should not be fooled. We thus need to define our own form of democracy in a way that fits within our norms and emancipates us economically. This is what happened in Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia and of late, Turkey, along with Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. I have visited all these countries and know a bit of their political economy. I illustrated them in my earlier three-in-one article in May 2018. As I said then, Singapore’s transformation was perhaps the most telling. The acumen of its first Premier, Lee Kuan Yew, who ruled for 31 years from 1959-1990, truly changed Singapore from virtually nothing to the envy of the world. Labelled as a dictator by Tying the incumbency of political leaders to excellence in performanceinternational activists and liberal media, he nevertheless transitioned Singapore from a poor, third world country to a rich, first-world country in a generation (25 years), making it into a manufacturing, shipping, financial and educational hub. Today, Singapore scores number 1 or 2 in almost every development indicator. Corruption is virtually non-existent. Shame to the critics! Lee was visionary, candid, innovative, uncompromising, goal and action-oriented, pragmatic. He waged a merciless war on corruption, targeting top officials, imprisoning them even for accepting small favors (“takrima”). He dispensed severe penalties for law breakers and instituted tight restrictions on inflammatory, hate and divisive speech as well as protests which he deemed an economic waste. He was often quoted as saying “If nobody fears me, I am meaningless”. In a way, he was a man of “hapa kazi tu”. South Korea’s economic story was equally impressive. The transformation heightened during Park Chung-hee’s 18-year “iron” rule from 1961-1979. Initially a mere exporter of human hair, the country became a manufacturing giant through an ambitious, Government-supported export-oriented industrialization. With the Japanese economic model in hindsight, the Government selected and promoted its “Mengis”, “Mufurukis”, “Bakhresas”, “Shamtes” etc. by giving them privileges and favors including low interest loans and export market support. The country also invested heavily in infrastructure and quality education. These measures, along with the firm commitment of the leadership to economic change, propelled South Korea to a middle-income status country in 10 years; an unimaginable feat any country has ever achieved. South Korea is a proof that the impossible is possible. Like Singapore, South Korea was, at the time, never spared of human rights criticisms. The third case is Malaysia. The country underwent rapid modernization under Dr Mahathir Mohamad; the country’s longest serving Premier (23 years, 1981-2003). He instilled discipline and accountability at work places, undertook mega infrastructural projects, commercialized agriculture, empowered the indigenous Malays (without “upsetting” the affluent Chinese), boosted a home-grown industrial base, and established centers of excellence, Multimedia Super Corridor, e-Government and other pivotal services. Despite his great achievements, he too was criticized by international and local activists on free speech, media content and human rights grounds. Leaving China aside, Turkey is a more recent success story. After the financial crisis of 2001, Turkey’s economic revival started in 2003 under Prime Minister (now President) Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. He channeled heavy investments into agriculture, disadvantaged regions, roads, airports and high speed railway. Presently, Turkey is among the world’s top 20 economies and renowned for its high quality textiles, furniture, transportation and construction equipment, consumer electronics, automobiles and agricultural products. Again, you have heard of criticisms labeled against Turkey on human rights issues. Why did the above leaders succeed? One, they were unyielding, or in the language of the west, iron-fisted. But this was their number one success factor anyhow. Iron-handedness excels where civility fails. Two, they were visionary, and believed in themselves. Three, they rejected their countries’ status quo. Four, they distasted corruption. Five, they sacrificed friendship (cheap popularity), for justice. Six, they were a hands-on (nothing slips, nothing sleeps) type-of-personalities. Seven, they were brutally candid, and made themselves, and their cabinet ministers, accountable to people.