MORE dairy investment is needed to plug in production consumption gap and register 5.8 million litres of milk expected in the next 15 years. Making the observation at the 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF), an official from the Tanzania Milk Board, Deogratius Mlay, said that was necessary in the Tanzania Livestock Master Plan (TLMP) 2017/18–2021/22. According to the TLMP, “The projected deficits will also be driven by a high human population, increased incomes, urbanisation, and income elasticity of demand, and lead to very high projected growth in consumption of animal-sourced foods.” Statistics show that milk production increased to over 2.4 billion litres in 2017/18 from 2.1 billion litres in the preceding year, and that is slightly below the market demand of 2.6 billion litres annually. Milk consumption in the country is still very low at an average of 20 per cent or 46 litres annually in comparison to global average of 200 litres recommended. Currently, there are 76 milk industries which produce about 500 litres of milk per day to over 120,000 litres a day. Similarly, during dry seasons, milk productions tend to drop due to absence of sufficient pastures to feed the animals. Despite being ranked second in Africa in terms of cattle population, according to Tanzania’s National Bureau of Statistics, livestock-related activities contribute only 7.4 percent to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), with an indication that growth of the livestock sector at 2.6 per cent and low. Coupled with this, the absence of a roadmap to develop the livestock sector has persistently hindered successful implementation of the previous investment plans in the sector. The additional dairy investments show that the gap in projected milk consumption can be addressed, and surplus produced through artificial insemination and hormone synchronization. The list also includes improved feed and health interventions, and value addition processing to help ensure a reliable market for fresh milk, and complementary policy changes. Thus, with additional investments there could be a surplus of about 0.5 million litres of milk in 2031/32, which would provide raw materials for domestic industries and exports, after meeting domestic consumption requirements. However, a great demand for milk could be met by the farmers forming Cooperative Unions to allow them have access to loans from lending institutions and increase investments.