AZAM FC bid to hit Kagame Cup treble hit snags yesterday after the team lost 1-0 to Kampala City Council Authority at Nyamirambo Stadium in Rwanda yesterday Azam who went there as a defending champions squandered the silverware to KCCA who won the trophy after 41 years. They first and last time won it in 1978 in the finals held in Kampala, Uganda. Mustafa Kizza scored the vital goal late in the second half that Azam failed to answer despite several well-planned attacks. It was KCCA who started the game strongly and were dominant in the early 20 minutes of the game. Gift Abubakar, who was the KCCA Dynamo started most of the raids in good collaboration with Allen Okelo and Muzamil Mutyaba. The best squandered chance for KCCA was in the 28th minute Kizza shot over bar a rebound from Azam goalkeeper Razack Abalora, who managed to snatch the ball from Okelo’s feet and the ball found Kizza well positioned. To the astonishment the striker’s shot went far above the goal. In the 35th minute Abalora was forced to stretch full and punch away Okello’s powerful shot. The teams finished the first half in a barren draw. In the 36th Paul Peter of Azam tested Charles Lukwago of KCCA with a distant shot, but it went off target. KCCA seemed to rely much on Mussa Ramadhani and Mustafa Kizza, who, most often enhanced both the attack and the midfield sections. It was him who scored the opener for KCCA in the 63rd minute after his long range ground shot passed all defenders and goalie Abalora into the yawning net. Azam faced KCCA from Uganda in the epic final match late yesterday as the former aimed to make a remarkable history by retaining the title for the third successive time. The team won the title last year after sinking Simba 2-1 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. It was the second meeting of the two teams in this year’s Kagame Cup edition. The two teams met in the group stage in which Azam lost 1-0 hence the match provided an opportunity for the ‘ice cream makers’ to avenge the defeat. The reigning champions outclassed AS Maniema from DR Congo on Friday after 5-4 penalty shootouts triumph. The two sides played to a scoreless draw after both normal and extra time. Prior to that, Azam smashed TP Mazembe 2-1 to progress into the last four with Obrey Chirwa striking an all important goal for his club but the Zambian missed Friday’s encounter due to injury. Should Azam win today, it would have ben the first major title for the team’s Burundian trainer Ndayiragije, while at the helm of a Tanzanian side. Ndayiragije is also preparing the team to successfully feature in the Mainland Premier League and CAF Confederation Cup. Reacting, Ndayiragije said his team played well despite the defeat. Tanzania was also represented by debutants KMC in the 16-team tournament but exited prematurely.