MINISTER for Trade and Industry Innocent Bashungwa has directed the National Development Corporation (NDC) to embark on strategic plans which would lead to the manufacturing of low-cost agricultural implements for farmers’ use in the country. Mr Bashungwa gave the directives in Hai District, Kiliman-jaro Region, during the launch of a tractor trailer and its architectural drawings for trailers, which was held at the Kilimanjaro Machine Tools Company Limited (KMTC) premises, recently. “The introduction of lowcost agricultural implements will enable small farmers who still use hand hoes to produce more food on bigger land within a relatively short period, compared to now when they spend a lot of time to cultivate smaller farms during agricultural seasons,” he said. According to him, the fact was proved by statistics that showed that many farmers were using hand hoes, which don’t help the country increase food production as intended by the national agricultural policy. “Out agricultural system needs to be transformed for the better, we need to make a difference as far as food production is concerned to make farmers work well for better yields. “For farmers to achieve that, NDC through your experts can support them by introducing low-cost agricultural implements, something which will increase farm produce, increase farmers’ incomes while at the same time assure national food security and good national income because we will have a surplus for export. Tanzanian farmers should now focus not only on producing food for local consumption but also for export, because many countries have shown interest in importing food from our country,” he said. Mr Bashungwa, who was promoted to the full ministerial post recently, noted that his ministry would work closely with the one that handles agriculture so as to make sure that food production is increased and the industrial sector is improved through agriculture. Commenting on the move by NDC, Tanzania Engineering and Manufacturing Design Organisation (TEMDO) and the Centre for Agricultural Mechanisation and Rural Tech (CAMARTEC) to join forces in the new innovation of the trailer, Mr Bashungwa said the move would introduce a new chapter in the country’s agricultural sector. Earlier on, NDC Managing Director, Professor Damian Gabagambi, said that after a long and successful research as well as different tests, the tractor trailers would now be manufactured locally by the KMTC, which is based in Hai District. “The introduction of this tractor trailers which would ease farmers’ operations, was the idea of the Ministry for Industry and Trade, after agricultural and economic experts discovered that farmers needed modern tools so as to improve their agricultural activities in order to have more harvests. “We are also planning to introduce more packages after the tractor trailers because farmers need a full package of agricultural equipment so as to achieve their desired goals of increasing food production,” he said. He further explained that NDC, through the KMTC, would also include other institutions which he named as TEMDO and CAMARTEC. The Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner, Ms Anna Mghwira, said the decision to involve KMTC in the manufacturing of the trailers was a step forward as far as the Kilimanjaro regional administration’s intention of reviving industries within the region was concerned.