NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars will today know their opponents for the qualification round of the 2021 African C up of Nations ( AFC ON), tournament. Taifa Stars have been seeded into Pot Three at the draws for the 2021 AFCON qualification round to take place today in Cairo, Egypt. The Confederation of Africa Football (CAF), will hold its 32nd General Assembly today at the Aida Ballroom and on the same day, the draws for the qualification round of the 2021 AFCON will be conducted. The 2021 AFCON will be hosted in Cameroon and countries engaged in the qualifiers, have been seeded into five levels, according to the FIFA official ranking issued on the June 14th this year. Twelve countries are seeded in pot 1 and they are Cameroon, Senegal, Tunisia, Morocco, DR Congo, Nigeria, Ghana, Egypt, Burkina Faso, Mali, Ivory Coast and Algeria. Pot 2 has Guinea, South Africa, Cape V erde, U ganda, Zambia, Benin, Gabon, Congo, Mauritania, Niger, Kenya and Libya. The countries in pot three are Madagascar, Zimbabwe, Central Africa Republic (CAR), Namibia, Sierra Leone, Mozambique, Guinea Bissau, Angola, Malawi, Togo, Sudan and Tanzania. Burundi, Rwanda, Equatorial Guinea, Eswatini, Lesotho, Botswana, Comoros and Ethiopia are the seeded teams in pot 4. The last pot has Liberia, Mauritius, Gambia, South Sudan, Chad, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles and lowly Djibouti. According to CAF, there will be 12 groups of four teams each (Group A to L). The first two teams in each group at the end of the qualifying round will make it for the final tournament that will be hosted in 2021 by Cameroon. Cameroon will be hosting the competition in 2021, for the first time since 1972 (49 years). The last time Cameroon hosting the competition, only eight teams were participating. Starting with the 2019 tournament in Egypt, 24 countries took part and so will be in Cameroon. Taifa Stars made it to the 2019 finals in Egypt after 39 years wait and the campaign was largely described as a learning curve for the team, although deep questions must be asked about the team’s defence, pundits said. Taifa Stars succumbed to 3-0 defeat at the hands of Algeria’s Desert Foxes at the 30 June Stadium on July 1st to end their campaign in the competition without a point. Taifa Stars lost their opening game to Senegal 2-0 before suffering a narrow 3-2 defeat to their East African neighbours Kenya. “This tournament has been the learning curve for Tanzania and it has been a cold room, which most of time they found too hot,” Shaun Bartlett, the former South African football striker said. Former Kenyan international Musa Otieno said Taifa Stars are going to learn some lesson in defence. “They need to have discipline in the pitch and off the pitch. They need to know once they lose the ball, how are they regrouping. Are they winning the ball as quickly as possible? “Every time they are been caught, they opened up the field and from there no transition. If you cannot play with discipline at that level, you are punished.