ROBANDA is one of the villages in Mara Region’s Serengeti District that are enjoying the fruits of conservation and tourism sectors. The village earns an average of 300m/-every year, according to its village government chairman, Mr Mrobanda Japan. Much of the revenue is channeled into the improvement of social services, the education sector getting top priority. “For example, we have been giving porridge to primary school pupils for many years,” Mr Japan told the ‘Daily News’ recently. “We also spend part of the revenue to address the shortage of desks and other issues in order to improve the learning environment for our children, he said. The village government, he explained further, had also built a secondary school that had helped to increased secondary education opportunities for boys and girls in the area. Robanda village hosts hundreds of citizens who live close to wild animals in Western Serengeti. It is one of the five villages in Serengeti district immensely benefiting from the formation of the IKona Wildlife Management Area (WMA). “About 200 ml/- of our annual income comes from Ikona WMA and the rest comes from other domestic sources in our village”, Mr Mrobanda said. Other villages benefiting from the country’s richest WMA earning about 3bn/-every year, are Natta, Park Nyogoti, Makundusi and Nyichoka. The WMA earns substantial revenue from Singita Grumeti, a foreign investor with significant contribution to sustainable conservation activities and local development in Western Serengeti, part of the great Serengeti ecosystem in Mara Region. The WMA received 1,529,289 US dollars (over 3.5bn/-) from the Investor Singita Grumeti, between 2014 and 2018 alone. The money is supposed to transform the lives of local people and support wildlife conservation activities within the WMA that forms an integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem. Last month, the Mara Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Adam Malima, said Robanda was one of the villages that were performing well on conservation-related issues in the region. “You (Robanda), are doing very well on conservation; other villages should learn from you “, the RC said. Mr Malima was speaking during a special ceremony held at the village to introduce the award won by Serengeti National Park as the best park in Africa in Mauritius last month. Village government chairman, Mr Japan said poaching for bush meat which had been rampant in the village in the past ended after the formation of WMA.