YOUNG Africans midfielder Mohammed Issa ‘Banka’ said he is looking forward to the friendly match against AS Vita set on August 4th this year at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yanga will play the match as part of activities lined up for inaugural ‘Wiki ya Wananchi’ event, which has specifically been organised to among other things to parade players, who will be trading with the Jangwani Street side for the upcoming season. The team is currently in Morogoro for pre-season camp as they are eager to build a competitive team capable to be featured in three major schedules which are Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). “The match against AS Vita is not easy at all but that is why we are here training hard to make sure that we excel on the day and give pride to our fans,” Banka said, while also making a rallying cry for supporters to descend at the 60,000 capacity venue in their big numbers. Adding, the player revealed that come next season, there will be much competition within the squad especially at the midfield department, where he said there are top quality players. “Beginning next term, surely, one should be compelled to work hard to win trust of the coach and playing time, otherwise, the competition among players to make to the first team will be stiff,” said he. On a personal point of view, Banka said he will be the changed player since he has started getting used to his colleagues, unlike in the previous season whereby he joined them midway into the season after ending his suspension imposed by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF). On his part, the team’s Coordinator Hafidh Saleh said Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera is expected back in the country any day this week and he will go straight to Morogoro upon his arrival. “After being with his national team DR Congo in the concluded Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals, he requested for a break and went to his residential place in France. He left the whole programme to the technical bench, who are really doing a good job as far as implementation is concerned,” Saleh said. He also said that all professional players signed by the club have jetted in except goalkeeper Farouk Shikhalo, who is also expected to join his fellows this week. Yanga played their second pre-season friendly match on Friday when they thrashed Moro Kids 2-0 thanks to goals from new arrival Juma Balinya and right-back Paul Godfrey. Balinya was signed from Uganda’s Police FC where he emerged the top goal scorer for the Uganda league.