OVER 40 golfers will tomorrow lineup at Mufindi golf course to tee off for the July monthly Mug Golf tournament. The competition, according to the organizers, is among the initiatives being carried out to make Mufindi Golf Club a popular golf destination by attracting golfers from other clubs countrywide. Doto Kitinusa, the Mufindi club’s Vice- Captain told the ‘Daily News’ from Iringa yesterday that preparation for the 18-hole tournament has been finalised. He said that the event will be blessed with the presence of amateur and professional golfers who have been invited to battle it out for the top honours. Kitinusa said that his club is happy to host golfers from different clubs as they are working hard to revive the game at the region. The tournament’s coordinator, Alfred Mdemu added that most of the top pros are product of Mufindi though they are currently based at different clubs. “Their presence here will add colours to the event and as well help to develop and promote golf in Iringa region,” he said. He named golf pros who have been enlisted for the 18-hole event as Frank Mwinuka, Stanley Sanga, David Helela, Richard Mtweve, Rodrick John, Frank Rise, Aidan Nziku and Brayceson Nyenza. “In order to ensure the club becomes the best place to play golf, we have begun a long-term programme of junior players to enable them learn golf skills for the personal and country benefits,” he said. “We will be doing this competition monthly starting this year, I believe my club, through this competition, will step forward towards development as Mufindi has a good history in producing talented golfers,” said Mdemu. Mdemu, who is Director of the Nevada International Barber, and one of the event’s sponsors, said the tournament values contribution from other clubs, hence it has decided to invite players from all clubs operating in the country. Kiwango Security, New Popex Hotel (Buguruni), Times General Supplies, China Tanzania Security co. Ltd, Mo’oud Pamba (Buguruni) and Nevada International Barber are the event sponsors. He added that heft prizes await the event’s overall winner, men’s Division A, B, C and the ladies division winner. Among the confirmed amateurs include Agustino Dembe, Basili Mtweve, Tedy Kalinga, Rose Nyenza, Samweli Kileo, Musa Ndanzi, Frank Ngulo and Yohana Mbadime. One of the participants Mbadime said: “You know this is ideal platform to revive golf at Mufindi, this club has long history of rediscovering many talented golfers, most of them have already joined paid ranks and will be part of this week contenders,” said Mbadime