THE 16-year old youth Karim Nassir Swedi, player from Arusha will soon fly to Copenhagen to enlist as a striker for the Danish Soccer team HB Køge. The Copenhagen based club recruited the youth from the Future Stars Sports Academy, after being impressed by his skills during the annual East African ‘Chipukizi Cup’ tournament held here recently. “The Danish Embassy in Nairobi has already phoned me for interviews, after submitting my credentials, which means the journey will take place anytime from now,” said the player. Playing in the First Division League, the HB Køge is a prestigious and professional Danish football club based in both the town of Herfolge and the town of Koge, both located in the Køge Municipality of Zealand Region, south of Copenhagen. Karim, who has just completed Ordinary Levels studies here, has been Form Four student at Jaffery Academy (International), School in Njiro, Arusha before doing his final exams this July. “I intend to become the next Mbwana Samatta, in carrying the country’s flag to international sporting arenas,” stated Karim Swedi. He plays on position Number Seven ‘winger,’ on the pitch. The boy joined the Future Stars Sports Training Academy three years ago. The Future Stars Academy Director, Alfred Itaeli explained that, Karim’s star started to shine during the annual ‘Chipukizi Cup’ challenges organized by FSA. The instructor from the International Federation of Football Associations (FIFA), Jan Poulsen (former Taifa Stars coach) who is also from Denmark discovered the boy’s talent in 2018. “Karim is not the first recruit, from Future Stars, because in 2017, another youth player, Ombeni Joseph was chosen to join the Danish Team. He however failed to make it to Copenhagen because his passport was not processed in time,” said Itaeli. Last year, 2018 the Chipukizi Cup tourney attracted 122 teams from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar Isles. For this year, the 10th edition of Chipukizi Cup (2019) will again take place in Arusha in December.