TODAY we look at the lives of children who are born in caves, dense forests, deserts or isolated islands to communities that still shun civilization. Such rather rare communities include the Hadza of northern Tanzania. These people are also known as the Tindiga. The Hadza possess a thrilling ‘click’ language and uncanny hunting skills. They use bows and arrows in hunting. They gather wild fruits, tubers, roots and leaves for food. Children are taught hunting. They are also enlightened on the habits of animals such as monkeys. While some families live in cave-like holes inside baobab tree trunks, others live in “burrows” underground or in crude thatched huts. It is intriguing, to say the least, to see that some indigenous Tanzanians still live so primitively nearly sixty years after Independence. Hadza people are largely polite. They receive and cooperate with visitors including tourists and researchers without hostility. Most of them live in grass huts that dot Yaeda Valley in Mbulu District. Others live close to Lake Eyasi. They are a group of fewer than 1,000 people. They are deemed to be the last real hunter-gathers. Nearly all Hadza children never go to school and some are never taken to hospital. The Hadza are mobile foragers who practice hunting and gathering as their almost exclusive means of subsistence. Older children are shown edible fruits, tubers, roots and leaves in the forest. Nursing infants accompany their mothers on daily foraging trips until they are approximately two or three years old and being weaned. Children are weaned on ground baobab powder, animal fat, pre-masticated meat or liquid honey. Weaned children are normally left in camp without adult supervision but, in some cases, they may remain under the charge of an older juvenile caregiver. Once they reach around three years of age, they spend ample time foraging. Children may accompany their mothers on foraging excursions or forage close to camp in mixed age and sex parties. Girls forage in groups, as do adult women, whereas boys begin to forage alone or in pairs, like adult men, around the age of ten years. Hadza children are particularly dynamic foragers, even by hunter-gatherer standards. They are very active foragers and can collect up to 50 percent of their daily energy requirement above the age of five years. Medicinal herbs are in common use among the Hadza. Children focus their collection efforts on baobab fruits, berries, figs, birds, tubers, honey, small game such as hyrax, mice and galagos and drupes and legumes. In addition to being avid foragers, Hadza children routinely share their food with friends and family. Hadza children grow up in an egalitarian community where food sharing is central to group formation and survival. Mid-day meals typically occur without adult supervision in communal spaces away from home where children assemble and play. During these meals, children eat while they play and are free to distribute their collected food as they choose with no adult oversight over distribution. Despite outside attempts to introduce agriculture to the Hadza, the majority continue to live in a traditional way. The communities practice cooperative child rearing with all members of the community looking after each other’s children. Due to the nature of their way of life, the Hadza people migrate with the seasons to ensure they can obtain the best seasonal produce. They possess little or no belongings and can set up shelters in just a few hours. In the dry season, they often sleep beneath huge trees instead of setting up camp. Hadza men appear in cotton cloth shorts while most women and girls appear in cloth or animal skin skirts. Hadza men forage individually and will look for honey, fruit (baobab is a favorite) and occasionally wild game. They hunt wild animals using bows and arrows. They will feed themselves throughout the day and bring the rest back to the camp to share out. The women, on the other hand, tend to forage in groups and focus on picking wild berries. The community will adjust their diets to the availability of the season. They have been described as highly skilled and opportunistic hunters. They are also intelligent. The Maasai are another tribe who appear to shun civilization mainly because the men carry spears, knives (sime), and clubs even when they are in crowded city streets. So, they are erroneously believed to be very dangerous. In fact, they are gentle, sociable and kind. They rarely use “sime” or spears in a fight. The Maasai, who also dress scantily in blue and red cotton wraps, are different from the Hadza. The Maasai depend heavily on cattle for nutrition. They also eat stiff maize meal (ugali) and wild tubers and roots. The Maasai diet consists of milk, meat, fat, blood, honey, and tree bark. These foods are also fed to children. Both fresh and curdled milk are drunk. Fresh milk is drunk in a calabash and can be mixed with fresh cattle blood. To some extent, the Maasai are hunter-gatherers. Blood is also boiled and used in cooking or drinks, accompanied with ugali (monono). Most of the meat dishes are fried or roasted then mixed with blood and eaten with ugali. Honey is a prime ingredient in mead, a fermented alcoholic drink that only elders may take. Maasai kids thrive on these rather peculiar foods and survive. Unlike the Hadza people, the Maasai are a pastoralist tribe living in Northern Tanzania. Some of the Maasai pastoralist families often keep moving from pastureland to another grazing their cattle. This being the case children in these families rarely go to school. However, most Maasai families take their children to school. In fact, some Maasai students, who are academically brilliant, graduate into respectable engineers, managers or other scholarly occupations. Recent years have seen Maasai ministers (including prime ministers); lawyers, journalists, medical doctors and other distinguished professionals. The Hadza people are different in this aspect. Many never take their children to school. Farther afield, we find the San or Saan people of Botswana, South Africa and Namibia who live in deserts and forests. They are also disparagingly known as “Bushmen.” The San people raise their children in hot deserts. Others live in the jungle. Like the Hadza, San people are hunter-gatherers. They are traditionally semi-nomadic. They move seasonally within certain defined areas based on the availability of resources such as water, game animals and edible plants. Most San families live in simple grass thatch huts. Others sleep in the open, especially those who live in sandy deserts . A few months ago, three Bushmen children were arrested by paramilitary police in Botswana. The arrests were the latest signs of a new government policy to intimidate Bushmen who have returned to the Central Kalahari Game Reserve. The children were arrested for being in possession of antelope meat in the game reserve. All have since been released, but further reports of harassment and intimidation have surfaced and there have been a growing number of Bushmen arrests. In another development, wildlife scouts in Botswana confiscated fruit and berries from a Bushman. The victim was told that the food was ‘for animals, not humans!’ He told newsmen later that “The Bushmen are being hunted and their rights denied because of tourism. Police are given guns to go out and hunt and arrest Bushmen who are gathering bush food.” “The Bushmen cannot eat or drink. How will they survive?” The tribe relies on hunting game and gathering fruit and berries to feed their families. They now risk starvation, or will be forced to rely on government handouts only available in the resettlement camps. The camps, which they call “places of death,” are located outside the reserve. A few months ago two Bushmen were arrested and tortured for killing an antelope. So, Hadza people of Tanzania are not the only tribe who live in the forests and caves. They are not the only primitive people in a civilized country. Primitive people, who are also referred to as isolated people or lost tribes, are communities who live or have lived without contact with civilization. In 2013, it was estimated that there were more than 100 primitive tribes around the world. Large populations of such people live in the densely forested areas of the Amazon Forest in South America and New Guinea. The people who live on the Andaman Islands in India are the most secluded tribe in the world. They live in the nude just like wild animals. The existence of these people comes mostly from violent encounters with neighbouring tribes and from aerial footage. Another Andaman tribe, the Jarawa, live on the main islands, largely isolated from other people. These people, most of whom remain nude, raise their children in forests. The Jarawa are fantastic architects of tree homes built as high as 35 metres above the ground! This unique architecture protects families from the swarming mosquitoes as well as from hostile neighbors, wild animals and evil spirits. They raise their children just like wild animals. The tree houses are built in clearings with large trees selected as the main poles. The tree homes are reached through a single notched pole which serves as a ladder. The floor is constructed first. The walls and a roof of sago tree leaves are added later. They are bound together with raffia. The houses often shelter as many as a dozen people. New homes are blessed by smearing animal fat at the threshold. Whole family groups, along with pets and other domestic animals, live together in one house. The larger homes have separate living spaces for the men and women of the family. Fire is the biggest danger to tree-dwellers, so the fire pits are specially designed with cut-away floor sections in case things get out of control. Even without going up in flames, the houses only last about five years. Jarawa men move around in complete nudity. But most of their women wear short skirts made of sago palm leaves. The men’s menacing looks are intensified by long necklaces made of dog teeth. They rarely lay their bows and arrows aside. The arrows heads are often made of bones. They use the bone arrows only for shooting people. Dying villagers often whisper the name of their spiritual killer to their family, who then kill the killer (kahukha), even if the one named is a family member or friend. Then, the “kahukha’s” meat is boiled and eaten. In 1971, it was announced that a primitive tribe, the Tasaday people, had been discovered living a Stone Age lifestyle on the Philippine island of Mindanao. The Tasaday, a group of 27 people, all of whom were naked, were reported to have had no contact with outsiders.