Stars are pooled in group J along together with Tunisia, Libya and Equatorial Guinea, accoreding to the Africa Cup of Nations fixture released yesterday in Cairo by the continental football governing body (CAF). Stars will face a busy schedule in the coming months after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) announced kick off date for 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo, the qualifiers will now come early as anticipated, with the kickoff set for October 7th to 15th this year. Ndimbo said that CAF Executive Committee that sat in Cairo, Egypt on Wednesday made decision to set new dates for the qualifiers. Another round of matches in the qualifiers will be played in November 11 to 19th this year. He said another round of matches will be played from August 31st, 2020 to September 8th 2020, before another round of matches that will be played from October 3rd to 15th 2020. The final qualifier matches will be staged from November 9th to 17th, 2020. Taifa Stars were set to know their opponents for the qualification round of the 2021 AFCON tournament following a draw that was due to be conducted late yesterday. The team is also involved in the African Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers strictly for home based players and they will face neighbours Kenya’s Harambee Stars on July 28 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The return leg will be staged in Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi a week later. Meanwhile, the 41st CAF Ordinary General Assembly took place yesterday in Cairo, Egypt, with the highlight the signing of a roadmap and agreement on governance reforms. FIFA General Secretrary Fatma Samoura is expected to assume the role of General Delegate to lead the reforms and governance at CAF for a six-month renewable period effective August 1 this year. “Dear delegates, I have appealed to FIFA. This call is on my own initiative and I assume total responsibility. Faced with a situation that worsened step by step, I asked the President of FIFA, Gianni Infantino to bring me an interim support. “He has approved our sister Fatma Samoura, FIFA General Secretary, to accompany us in the implementation phase of new structures and more generally to help CAF to continue the reforms that we started, as well as follow the investigations that FIFA’s Governance Committee would like to engage on the management of the Central Administration,” CAF President Ahmad Ahmad said in his opening address. Ahmad signed on behalf whilst FIFA President Gianni Infantino appended his signature on behalf of world football governing body. Another highlight of the General Assembly was the election of members to the CAF Executive Committee for the cycle 2019-2023. The elected members are Augustin Senghor (Senegal), Sita Sangare (Burkina Faso), Moses Magogo (Uganda), Pierre-Alain Mounguengui (Gabon), Abdulhakim Al Shalmani (Libya) and Mohamed Ally Sobha (Mauritius). Senghor, who represents the Western Zone A was elected unopposed just as Sangare and Mounguengi for the Western B and Central Zones respectively. For the Central-East zone, Magogo polled 33 votes against 19 by Leodegar Tenga (Tanzania). The Ugandan previously served as a co-opted member of the CAF Executive Committee for 2017-2019. On the part of Al Shalmani, he defeated Algerian Amar Bahloul by 29 votes to 21 for the Northern Zone seat. For the Southern Zone, it became a three-horse race between Sobha, Andrew Kamanga and Adam Mthetwa (Eswantini) following the withdrawals Elvis Chetty (Seychelles) and Felton Kamambo (Zimbabwe). Sobha garnered 38 votes whilst Kamanga polled 12 and two for Mtethwa. Also, on the agenda was the appointment of Chairman and Vice Chairman of the CAF Governance Committee, which was unanimously approved for a four-year term. Ivorian Michel Kizito Brizoua-Bi will chair the committee with Dieudonne Happi of Cameroon his deputy. Other members of the committee are Maya Boureghda (Tunisia), Monica Musonda (Zambia) and Tumi Dlamini (South Africa).