DELEGATES from the East African Communications Organisation (EACO), member states and other partnering groups convened in Mwanza recently for a five-day meeting. EACO), as ‘the Private Public Partnership (PPP), Organisation within EAC region is known globally for its systematic coordination and successful proposals it always puts forward. Through it, cross-border Frequency coordination has been effectively and efficiently handled, thus becoming a study case in other zones because many applications of short codes are harmonized in the region. Through EACO, service providers share experiences on how they overcome challenges during the course of lending their services to the people of East Africa. Through such experience sharing, member countries have made a series of remarkable achievements in the transformation of the communications sector in the region for the past 20 years. As a way of appreciation to the Service Providers in Tanzania, TCRA in this financial year intends to identify, recognize and reward outstanding performance in the ICT sector in Tanzania. TCRA are planning to do so because they know appreciation is fundamental in human life through recognition of good work done. The awards confirm that their deeds are worthy and valued as such, and satisfaction and productivity will increase to levels never seen before, and hence, constant desire to improve by individuals or institutions. The awards key objectives include to identify, recognize and reward outstanding players, provide knowledge and information by sharing best practice, experiences and expertise, and also foster innovation and creativity in improving service delivery channels. Through the awards, TCRA expects to build awareness and confidence in the public, NGO’s, Donors and civil society, promote government’s role in ensuring access to ICT is a right for all Tanzanians, and also enhance greater regional collaborations in the development and promotion of local content. TCRA wants to accelerate effective use of information, education, communications and technology amongst stakeholders The Awards categories will therefore include Best Tanzanian–owned ICT company of the Year, most innovative ICT company of the Year, Telecommunications Company of the Year, Broadcasting Company of the Year, Postal Company of the Year, Online and Digital Content company of the Year. TCRA says that the list of categories will continue to be reviewed and fine-tuned to acceptance level of the ICT stakeholders. The government has lauded TCRA for deciding to hold these awards and stakeholders’ engagement later this year. The Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Dr Harrison Mwakyembe has urged all stakeholders in Tanzania to prepare for these Awards, through better services delivery, and also insisted that TCRA should explore hybrid composition of judges. While opening the 23rd East African Communications Organization (EACO), Congress in Mwanza, the Minister for Works, Transport and Communication Engineer Isack Kamwelwe called upon all stakeholders to prepare for the Awards, through better services delivery. TCRA Director General Engineer James Kilaba admits that plans to reward outstanding performance in the ICT sector in the country are progressing well. The award confirms that such deeds are worthy and valued, and productivity will increase to levels never seen before, hence constant desire to improve by individuals or institutions. I hope these awards shall promote government’s role in ensuring access to ICT as a right for all Tanzanian and also enhance greater regional collaborations in the development and promotion of local content.