DAR ES SALAAM resident alleged to have killed his wife and later burnt her body into ashes using two bags of charcoal appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in the city yesterday charged with murder. Khamis Luwongo, alias Meshack (38), was not allowed to enter plea to the charge before Senior Resident Magistrate Salum Ally. The magistrate informed the accused that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the matter. The accused was ordered to remain in remand until August 13, 2019, when the case will be mentioned. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution, led by Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, have not been completed. Prosecuting, the trial attorney told the court that on May 15, 2019, at Gezaulole area in Kigamboni District in Dar es Salaam, Luwongo killed his wife Naomi Marijani. It was reported that Naomi went missing from her home at Gezaulole on May 15, 2019, but investigation by the police revealed that she was killed by her husband and the dead body burned. It is claimed that the ashes of her body were buried at Mkuranga District, Coast Region. Meanwhile, the prosecution is still conducting the investigations into the trial of Dar es Salaam resident Haji Juma, who is facing three counts relating to smuggling of foreign currency of 750,000 US dollars (over 1.5bn/-) outside the country. Juma who resides at Magomeni Mapipa is charged with money laundering, failure to declare currency and possessing the foreign money, suspected to have been unlawfully acquired. The prosecution requested for adjournment of the matter, pending further investigations. The magistrate granted the request and the case was adjourned to August 13, 2019. It is alleged that the accused committed the offence on June 19, 2019 at Julius Nyerere International Airport within Ilala District in the commercial city of Dar es Salaam. The prosecution alleges that when leaving the United Republic of Tanzania in possession of the 750,000 dollars, the accused falsely declared that the sum belonged to GSM Company. It is claimed that on the same day and place, the accused was found at the airport with the money, which having regard to all the circumstances, was suspected to have been unlawfully acquired. On money laundering, the prosecution alleged that the accused engaged himself with money while knowing or ought to have known that the property was proceeds of predicate offence of possessing money suspected of having been unlawfully acquired