THE residents of Babati urban have been urged to fully tap business opportunities available in their midst following the government’s decision to waive some nuisance taxes. The call was made yesterday by Babati Urban constituency Member of Parliament (MP), Pauline Gekul when speaking to the residents at a meeting organised here by NMB bank to the local traders from Manyara Region. “Business environment in the fiscal year 2019/2020 is promising because the government was working on addressing [ traders’] challenges,” Ms Gekul said. The traders who attended the meeting happen to be members of NMB Business Club. She further urged them to stop complaining of teething problems in business instead they should grab the opportunities. “I believe you [NMB] will continue to provide more services for my voters so that they improve their economic statuses,” added the MP. On her part, NMB Senior Relationship Manager Business Banking, Wogofya Mfalamagoha said the bank would keep on empowering and supporting the traders with business skills as well as network to link with others countrywide. “NMB has more than 200,000 business people all over the country, who have taken soft loans worth over 600bn/-, and you will realize that the Business Clubs we organize regularly do educate and impart skills, which are helpful and beneficial to all,” Mr Mfalamagoha said. However, he asked them not to focus on collaterals when they want to acquire loans, but rather think of implementable businesses with ideas sourced from professionals so that they benefit. “The bank does not intend and bond its customers for failing to pay back the loans taken,” Mr Mfalamagoha said. The Relationship Manager equally tipped them not to take their businesses for granted and light because any business activity be it small or medium to a trader is essential in developing the economy of the country. Commenting, Manyara Region NMB Business Club Chairperson, Ally Msuya, praised the bank for creating a good business environment and relationship with their traders. Hinting that the unity would be a forum to further address challenges facing them.