MAINLAND giants Young Africans will now face Kenya’s side Kariobangi Sharks on August 4th this year at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yanga will play the match as part of activities lined up for inaugural ‘Wiki ya Wananchi’ event, which has specifically been organised to among other things to parade players, who will be trading with the Jangwani Street side for the upcoming season. Initially, Yanga was due to face AS Vita on the same date but the Congolese side canceled the trip to Tanzania due to tight schedule after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) released inter clubs fixtures. Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Yanga Vice-Chairman, Fredrick Mwakalebela said ‘Wiki ya Wananchi’ programme remains intact. He said after AS Vita cancelled their trip to Dar es Salaam, the club’s management decided to extend invitation to Kariobangi Sharks of Kenya, who have confirmed to send their team to honour the climax of ‘Wiki ya Wananchi’ on August 4th this year. “Preparations are going on well for the club to host the event. It will be a great match against Kariobangi Sharks, who recently beat English Premier League side Everton FC in SportPesa Super Cup,” said Mwakalebela. Kariobangi Sharks registered a 4-3 win on penalties over Everton, after the match had ended 1-1 in regulation time at the Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, Kenya on July 7th this year. On his side, the Secretary of ‘Wiki ya Wananchi’ Organizing Committee Deo Mutta said the festivities will begin on Saturday with some members of the club travelling to Zanzibar to pay homage to the grave of Zanzibar first President Abeid Amani Karume, who was an ardent fan and member of Yanga. Yanga are currently in Morogoro for a pre-season camp as they are eager to build a competitive team capable to be featured in three major schedules which are Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). They have so far played three warm up matches, winning all. On Monday, Yanga registered a mammoth 7-0 victory over non-league side ATN in a pre-season friendly encounter at Morogoro Bible College in Morogoro region. Rwandese import, Patrick Sibomana grabbed a hattrick, while Namibian striker, Sadney Urikhob scored twice. Uganda striker, Juma Balinya and Ghanaian defender, Lamine Moro netted one each. In the first match, Yanga beat Tanzanite 10-0, with attacker Mrisho Ngassa grabbing a hat-trick. Other goals were scored by Feisal Salum, Raphael Daudi, Mapinduzi Balama and midfielder Papy Tshishimbi. Also in the score sheet were Rwandese Patrick Sibomana, Issa Bigirimana and Balinya. Mwinyi Zahera charges also registered a 2-0 victory over Moro Kids following goals scored by Balinya and right wing back, Paul Godfrey ‘Boxer’. The Jangwani Street lads will face Botswana side Township Rollers in CAF Champions League, with first round, forts leg set for August 9, 10, or 11 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The return leg will be held in Gaborone two weeks later. In March 2018, Yanga were knocked out of the CAF Champions League by Township Rollers on a 2-1 aggregate after playing a goalless draw in Gaborone, Botswana in the second leg tie. In the first leg which was held in Dar es Salaam on March 6, Yanga were defeated 2-1. If Yanga make it past Township Rollers, they will progress into the second round in which they will face winner of the match between Green Mamba of Eswatini or Zambia side Zesco