THE government has resolved to find a lasting solution to the dispute pitting Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) against the pastoral communities living within the area. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa maintained here yesterday that the government was committed to bring both parties together to quell the tensions between NCAA and Maasai communities that coexist with wildlife within the 8,292 square kilometres. Speaking shortly before inaugurating Dr Mary and Richard Leakey Museum and the commemoration of Zinjanthropus 60th anniversary, the premier assured Ngorongoro residents that he was willing to convene a dialogue for the two parties at a later date to end the perceived dispute. Mr Majaliwa maintained that he will convene the dialogue after the Southern African Development Community (SADC) conference in Dar es Salaam later next month. “I’ll call the meeting later next month with a view of putting an end to the hullabaloo that has emanated from the perceived dispute,” assured the premier amidst thunderous applause from a section of Ngorongoro residents who were part of the crowd that attended the function at the Olduvai Gorge. While planning for the upcoming dialogue, Mr Majaliwa appealed to the pastoral communities and NCAA’s management to refrain from peddling lies and sowing the seeds of hatred, warning that such actions might compromise the planned meeting. The government assurance follows an earlier request by Ngorongoro Member of Parliament and Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technology Dr William Tate Ole Nasha for the premier’s intervention on what he described as disharmony between NCAA and the pastoral communities. Dr Ole Nasha told the prime minister that Ngorongoro residents felt aggrieved by ill-treatment from NCAA’s management. “Sixty years on, we haven’t been living in harmony, our counterparts have not honoured their obligation of providing us with social services and have continuously been using excessive force against the locals,” alleged the legislator. NCAA has for years been at loggerheads with the locals, with the Maasai accusing the authority of planning to evict them from the area they inhabited since 1959. However, the authority has for many years been supporting the communities, through the Ngorongoro Pastoral Council (NPC) by building schools, providing food and providing education opportunities to children from Maasai communities. NCAA also gives the communities 8bn/- annually, with 3bn/- supporting NPC activities while the remaining is channeled towards the welfare of the Maasai pastoralists. The prime minister reminded all Tanzanians of their noble duty to protect and preserve the country’s rich heritage. “The resources guarantee the government huge sums of money in terms of revenue and foreign exchange, we therefore have a responsibility to protect them,” he said. The premier was categorical that the government will not spare anyone found sabotaging the resources, warning that all saboteurs will be squarely dealt with. He commended NCAA for striving to promote the destinations found within the 8292 square kilometers, which include the Ngorongoro crater and the state-of-the-art museum at Olduvai Gorge. “I’m informed that since the commissioning of the new museum, revenues have shot up from 1bn/- to 2.5bn/-, annually, well done,” he commended. Mr Majaliwa underscored the importance of Zinj’s discovery in the country 60 years ago, saying it attested that every global citizen hailed from Tanzania. In 1959, famous paleoanthropologists and archaeologists Louis Leakey and his wife Mary discovered a human skull of what came to be known as Early Man at Olduvai Gorge in Ngorongoro Conservation Area.