MEDIA have to recognize the importance of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in fostering the country’s development, the Deputy Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Ms Juliana Shonza, has stated. Her remarks came ahead of the SADC Heads of State summit in Dar es Salaam in August this year. Tanzania will host the summit during which President John Magufuli will assume the position of chairman of the community for the next one year. “Media should know the importance of the SADC and educate citizens on how the country benefits and opportunities that they can utilize,” Ms Shonza said. She was speaking when opening a media workshop on Monday in Morogoro at which media professionals were taken through issues of the SADC how to report them. The workshop was part of preparations for the forthcoming summit and to make the journalists more knowledgeable on the regional community. The seminar is part of a programme to strengthen the capacities to implement the regional agenda in SADC member states. The European Union and Germany support SADC member states to facilitate and coordinate the implementation of their regional commitments. The deputy minister said awareness among members of the public over the SADC was still low, thus the media had work to do in educating them. In particular, regional economic, social and political strategies have to be known to the public and how Tanzania implements at country level, she remarked further, adding: “The media should explain various economic opportunities that are beneficial to the community,” she said. Ms Shonza urged journalists to embrace patriotism when reporting the SADC summit. “It will be surprising if a Tanzanian journalist will use his or her pen to tarnish the image of our country when reporting the summit,” she said. The Acting Director for Department for Foreign and Regional Affairs, Ms Agnes Kayola, said the public had to be updated over what will be discussed during the SADC summit and the media have to play an educative role.