NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars should be on their guard, going into the return leg of the 2020 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN), qualifiers against Kenya’s Harambee Stars as the hosts vowed to finish them this weekend. Taifa Stars will be looking to break down Harambee Stars blockade at the Moi Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi this Sunday, to progress to the next phase of the qualifiers meant for home based players. In the first leg tie held at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last Sunday, the two teams battled to a barren draw and the result leaves both teams with everything to play for in the rematch this weekend. Harambee Stars skipper, Dennis Odhiambo had been quoted by the Daily Nation of Kenya as saying that he is convinced that they will progress to the next phase of the 2020 CHAN qualifiers. The outcome of the last weekend match left the two sides in dilemma and need to battle it hard for in the decisive Sunday’s return leg to be staged at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, in Nairobi. Harambee Stars skipper Odhiambo said that they need to plan well for the match in order to get a good result after a difficult first leg in Dar es Salaam, especially in the first half and that the good thing is they did not concede an away goal. In the last Sunday’s CHAN qualifiers match, Taifa Stars skipper, John Bocco was stopped in his tracks by the impressive Kenya goalkeeper, John Oyemba, who was earning his first cap. “It was important not to concede because a solid defence is key. Now at home we will look to score goals and finish the job. I am convinced,” explained the Sofapaka midfielder. However Taifa Stars interim Burundian tactician, Etienne Ndayiragije has said they will be looking to upset the odds in Nairobi as the first leg result means nobody is at an advantage. “It means we have to work twice as hard to stand a chance of eliminating Kenya. I know the opponent is also preparing to give their all so it sets up an exciting battle,” Ndayiragije said. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Information and Communication Officer , Clifford Ndimbo has said that the federation is currently preparing logistics for Taifa Stars trip to Nairobi, ahead of the Sunday’s return leg match. However, Ndimbo said that they are in doubt whether Stars players, goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, defender, David Mwantika and midfielder Mudathir Y ahya will be part of the squad that will travel to Nairobi, Kenya. The trio missed the first leg in Dar es Salaam due to injuries and they are running out of time to be fit for the return leg. “We are waiting for the report for the team physician in regard to players’ conditions. This will decide on whether Manula, Mudathir and Mwantika will make the trip to Kenya,” he said. In the related development, Taifa Stars Team Manager, Nadir Haroub Ally said that attacking midfielder, Ibrahim Ajib has joined the injury list and is also racing against time for a trip to Kenya. He said Ajib sustained knee injury during the first leg match at the National Stadium Taifa Stars qualified in the first edition, which was held in 2009 in Ivory Coast, whereas Kenya never been lucky to play in the tournament since its establishment. The 2020 CHAN will be the 6th edition of the biennial football tournament organized by the Confederation of African Football (CAF), exclusively featuring players from the respective national championships. It will be hosted between January and February 2020 in Cameroon this is after Ethiopia who were formerly awarded as host admitted it was not ready to host this competition.