THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday directed the prosecution to complete investigations into the trial of businessman Ndama Hussein, alias “Mtoto wa Ng’ombe,” facing fraud charges in transactions involving exportation of minerals worth 16bn/-. Alternatively, Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde told the prosecution to use their wisdom to withdraw the case against the accused person to await the completion of the investigations. The court’s decision was in reaction to concerns by the defence that the accused has been coming to court without the prosecution completing the investigations, which have been pending since the arraignment of the accused in 2016. “It is true this is a long time case. The prosecution should use their wisdom to either withdraw the case or complete the investigations,” the magistrate said before granting another adjournment of the trial to August 20, 2019 . Earlier, State Attorney, Jenifer Masue, for the prosecution, had requested the court to set another mention date because they were still conducting the investigations into the trial. The trial attorney could not disclose the reasons behind such failure. In previous court sessions, the prosecution had informed the court that the prosecution had not obtained legal mutual assistance from Australia to get essential exhibits in order to complete investigations . A mutual legal assistance treaty is an agreement between two or more countries for the purpose of gathering and exchanging information to enforce public or criminal laws. Modern states have developed mechanisms for requesting and obtaining evidence for criminal investigations and prosecutions. He is charged with forging several documents, including a certificate of clearance from United Nations for exportation of minerals worth over 16bn/- . He is alleged to have made a false export permit for minerals and samples of minerals on February 20, 2014 in the city. He allegedly purported to show that a company called Muru Platnum Tanzania Investment Company Limited was permitted to export four boxes of gold nuggets weighing 207 kg valued at 8,280,000 US dollars to a company based in Australia known as Trade TJL DTYL Limited, while it was untrue. It is alleged that on March 6, 2014, in the city Hussein forged a certificate of clearance from the UN Dar es Salaam Office purporting to show that 207kg of the minerals from Democratic Republic of Congo intended to be exported by Muru company to Trade TJL Limited having been cleared of criminality. On February 20, 2014, the accused person allegedly made a customs declaration form purporting that Muru Company had paid 331,200 US dollars as importation tax to Tanzania Revenue Authority for the said minerals at 8 ,280,000 US dollars imported from DRC, while it was false. The prosecution told the court further that on the same day in the city, Hussein forged insurance cover from Phoenix of Tanzania Assurance Company Limited, showing Muru Company had insured the four boxes containing the minerals. Between February 26 and March 3, 2014, in Dar es Salaam, with intent to defraud, the businessman allegedly obtained from Trade TJL Limited 540,390 US dollars by falsely pretending that he would supply and export the 207 kg of the said minerals valued at 8 ,280,000 US dollars. ‘ Mtoto wa Ng’ombe’ has already been convicted by the court on one count of money laundering of the sum of 540,000 US dollars (over 1bn/-) and sentenced to either pay a fine of 200m/-or go to jail for five years after pleading “guilty” of the offence. He opted to pay the fine to escape the jail sentence. Such move by the businessman recorded a history in the country’s judiciary as he becomes the first accused person to enter plea of guilty for money laundering offence since the Money Laundering Act, Number 12, governing the prosecution of such offence, was enacted in Tanzania about ten years ago.