KISUTU Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam has ordered the arrest of four businessmen over alleged conspiracy and 100m/- tax evasion in the importation of hangers’ bags. The businessmen are Anwar Rubeya, who stays at Magomeni Mapipa, Joseph Marcelo, a resident of Kwa Azizi Ally, Matiku Mgaya who resides at Kiwalani and Idd Bogobogo from Vikindu. Senior Resident Magistrate Salum Ally issued the arrest warrant after granting a prosecution’s request. Upon their arrest,according to State Attorney Janeth Magoho, for the prosecution, the four suspects will be joined into a trial of ten others who were arraigned to face the two counts and another of occasioning loss to the government. Arraigned before Magistrate Ally were Roselyn Kerandi (46), Ally Kachagama (40), Geofrey Kayanza (38), Khalid Kigoma or Samir Gulum Hussein (29), Edward Maguri (50), Alex Sanga (47), Saidim Mwarabu (28), Lali Bakari (28) and Hamidu Abu (28). They were not allowed to enter any plea to the charges because the case falls under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate informed the accused that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain the trial, which will be tried by the Economic, Corruption and Organised Crime High Court. Under the circumstances, the magistrate remanded the accused until August 6, 2019, when the case comes for another mention. The trial attorney informed the court that investigations into the matter have not been completed. The prosecution told the court that on unknown date within the City of Dar es Salaam, all the accused conspired to commit the offence of tax evasion. It was alleged that on February 21, 2019 in the city, the accused failed to pay tax, including import tax and duties amounting to 100,739,873/-, the property of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). All the accused were also charged with occasioning loss to the authority. The court heard that on the same day in the commercial city, by their willful acts, the accused subjected TRA to pecuniary loss of the amount by evading import taxes and duties on one 40-foot container of imported hangers’ bags.