EABC in partnership with GIZ is conducting training to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) from the region on trade to impart knowledge and competence as key instrument in tapping the potential of the East African and wider African market. With support from German Development Cooperation under ‘creating perspectives: Business for Development, East Africa’ EABC improved skills of managers engaged in the manufacturing sector from the six East African Partner States on Export Preparedness and Management. Business for Development, East Africa project is a joint initiative by Federation of German Industry BDI; the Federal German Ministry for Cooperation and Development (BMZ); the East African Business Council (EABC) and the EAC Secretariat. Working with selected 74 growth-oriented small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in East Africa the pilot project aims to improve their economic perspectives by productivity, competitiveness and innovation. Speaking at the award ceremony today Peter Mathuki from East Africa Legislative Assembly said SMEs are the backbone of the economy not only in East Africa but also in Germany where 80 per cent of employment increasing is attached to SMEs. EABC has repositioned to respond to the needs of SMEs in the region by establishing a fully-fledged desk to help members with cross border trade challenges and provide advisory for business development. Support to start-ups and SMEs is crucial for the creation of employment and income generation for the steadily growing population in the EAC Partner States. On his part, Kennedy Musyoka, Member of East African Legislative Assembly commended the SMEs for exploring the opportunities of the wider EAC market and employing the youth in the region. “As legislators, we would like more business to grow and expand across EAC borders and provide more employment, “said Musyoka. Among the challenges faced by SMEs while doing business in the region including access to finance and not adhering to provisions of the EAC Customs and Common Market Protocol, lack of knowledge on export, product standards among others. The EABC as the voice of the private sector in the region provides policy support through advocating for a conducive business environment, for instance, fair customs and tax systems, elimination of non-tariff barriers and harmonisation of standards.