AQUACULTURE and poultry subsectors received a major boost yesterday, thanks to an agreement that Tanzania and Netherlands sealed. Under the five-year Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), the two countries agreed to empower Tanzanians engaged in the sectors with a view of elevating them. Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Abdallah Ulega said the deal is expected to greatly benefit Tanzanians specialising in fish farming and raising domesticated birds like chickens, ducks, turkeys and geese for meat or eggs. He revealed that the private sector, through the Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs), will play a leading role in the agreement, with the two governments playing a facilitating role. Apart from opening up the local market, Mr Ulega exuded confidence that the agreement will also address protein deficiency, which leads to stunting among under- fives, in the country. “There is high demand for protein in the country just because not so many Tanzanians eat enough fish and chicken,” said the deputy minister. According to Mr Ulega, Tanzania harvests only 350,000 tonnes of fish species annually against the actual national demand of 700,000 tonnes. “This is a huge gap that we hope the five-year project will help to bridge,” he added. A recent report by the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) indicates that fish farming, considered by some economic experts as a lucrative venture in Tanzania, remains largely a part-time activity. The report further reveals that only 17,000 Tanzanians are involved in aquaculture, with 14,000 of them engaged in freshwater farming and the rest in seaweed farming. Netherlands Deputy Minister for Agriculture and Food Quality Marjolijn Sonnema said the sectors are set to undergo major transformation through the PPP initiative. She revealed that a number of private companies from Tanzania and the Netherlands will be involved in the five year pact. “After long and fruitful discussions, we have both agreed to provide adequate knowhow to the poultry and aquaculture farmers on how they can improve on their yields,” she explained. The Netherlands minister added that farmers will be trained on tailor-made skills on how to produce enough harvest for food. According to Ms Sonnema, the pact will also promote cooperation in trade, investment and research between the two countries.