THE Managing Director of Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) has said SADC’s decision to hold its 39th Summit of the Heads of State and Government aat Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC) is a great honour to Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the statesmen, who championed the establishment of the regional economic grouping. Speaking to reporters in Arusha yesterday, AICC Managing Director Elishilia Kaaya said holding the SADC summit at JNICC was indeed a great honour to Mwalimu and a coincidence to Tanzania, which was very supportive of freedom struggle in Africa. “To hold a SADC summit at a convention centre named after Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the founding President of Tanzania is an important opportunity to nurture and cherish Mwalimu Nyerere’s legacy,” Mr Kaaya told reporters in Arusha tourist city. The AICC boss also thanked the government of the United Republic of Tanzania for support and guidance provided so far as the country geared up for hosting one of the most prestigious summits of the Heads of State and Government in Africa. He said AICC, one of the oldest and experienced facility in hosting international meetings was ready to provide the best services beyond the SADC standard and ensure the SADC summit was a success and memorable to all delegates. “We also feel that this is an opportunity for Tanzanian entrepreneurs to ensure they utilise this opportunity provided by the SADC summit to showcase their businesses and provide services needed for the summit.” He called upon Tanzanian entrepreneurs to utilise the business opportunity by making various business deals in Dar es Salaam and other places likely to be visited by the delegates. Mr Kaaya, whose institution owns JNICC, said his organisation was doing all it could to ensure the regional annual summit was provided with the best services and facilities, saying preparations were in top gear. Tanzania is set to host the 39th SADC Summit of Heads of State and Government from August 17-18, 2019 and will be preceded by a ministerial meeting that will bring together ministers and permanent secretaries and other senior government officials from August 9-16, 2019. From August 5-9, 2019, the regional economic block will also organise SADC Industrialisation Week to facilitate industrialisation in the entire SADC region.