AS Tanzania gears to improve infrastructures for smooth tourism operations, it is emerging that the number of tourists visiting Magamba Nature Reserve Forest (MNRF), here is sharply rising. The State-owned Forest Reserve in Lushoto District managed by Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS), under Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism is blossoming after measures were put in place to revive it and curb human activities abusing it. T he observation was made here yesterday by MNRF Chief Conservator, Ms Getruda Nganyagwa, adding that this year's figures show that there have been 2,226 tourists in the reserve, estimated as a rise from 516 tourists in 2015. Ms Nganyagwa attributed the increase to funds sourced from the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF), since 2012/13, which have targeted restoring its infrastructures characterized by high biological diversities and rich in different flora and fauna. Various attractive sites for the ecotourism are found within and outside the reserve, and include historical, cultural ones and viewpoints of Jiwe la Mungu, Kigulu Hakwewa Kwehondo and Skyline), Old German Cave, Sungwi Waterfalls, Mkussu Waterfalls, Hambalawei, Kibohelo & Grewal Dams and Old Grewal Saw Mill. The Chief Conservator said that EAMCEF has so far supported the reserve and surrounding villages with some 182m/- . The funds, she said have been used to, among others conserve and clear paths for tourists, and fortify borders measuring 9,283 hectares and surrounded by 21 villages. "I can say that the current situation in terms of thrive of the forest and an increase of tourists is good and largely due to support from EAMCEF. They have also supported villagers with projects, which in turn have ensured them sources of income, and better energy, and hence, they do not have to enter the forest and destroy resources anymore," said Ms Nganyagwa. However, she disclosed the projects as agriculture, vegetable gardens, beekeeping, poultry and wood-saving stoves. The stoves use less firewood and spices from trees they grow earn them money. However, the EAMCEF also releases funds for 24-hour patrol in the reserve. The Chief Conservator hinted on the human activities taking place in the reserve as trees’ felling for firewood and for sale, which has been majorly addressed. She said that after extensive awareness campaigns the villagers have understood and grouped to own the projects. Tourism activities taking place in the reserve comprise camping at sights, picnic, hiking, witnessing the Germany Cave that was built during Germany rule in East Africa. It is believed that the cave was used for defense and bauxite mining during the First World War 1914-1918, where reserve's altitude varies between 1,650 and 2,300 making the Kwehondo the highest peak. On her side, EAMCEF Northern Zone Projects Officer, Ms Magreth Victor, said they targeted the Eastern Arc Mountains as part of the Eastern Afromontane Ecoregion that is recognised globally as one of the 34 biodiversity hotspots on earth, and characterized by high concentrations of endemic species.