…links Tanzania to Uganda, South Sudan CENTRAL corridor transport system that links Tanzania to Uganda and Southern Sudan was launched here yesterday to facilitate haulage of cargo and passengers in the East African region. The government, through Marine Service Company Limited (MSCL) and Uganda Railway Corporation, has established the one stop centre for smooth handling of cargo from Dar es Salaam port through Mwanza port to Uganda via Port bell. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe, speaking during the launching ceremony, said cargo will be transported by railway from Dar es Salaam port to Mwanza and later shipped to Uganda, using MV Umoja. The minister noted that the new arrangement was another initiative to ease movement of people, goods and services across and beyond the region. The arrangement comes hardly two days after the government inked the contract for construction of the longest bridge on lake waters in East Africa. The 3.2-kilometre bridge that will cost 593bn/- will connect Mwanza region and Geita and Kagera regions and ultimately the neighbouring countries. Engineer Kamwelwe said the freight train will arrive at Mwanza port and go direct to the freight ship without having to unload the cargo. “It is a pride as a country because there are few countries in Africa that are connected to integrated transport infrastructure,” he stated. The minister said connection of rail and water routes in transportation of passenger and cargoes will help to reduce congestion at the Dar es Salaam port. “This kind of system is also implemented in our neighbouring Uganda where cargo is enabled to get to Kampala,” the minister noted further. Engineer Kamwelwe said current reports show that since the freight route was opened on June 6, last year, a total of 1,165 wagons equivalent to 45,720 tonnes have been transported through the central corridor by rail and water. The minister said the route will involve cargo transportation owned by the World Food Programme to South Sudan through Uganda. “My Ugandan colleague Zuba Ntege will receive the consignment at the Port Bell,” he hinted. Engineer Kamwelwe added that out of the freight, 864 wagons equivalent to 34,960 tonnes were transported by the WFP, which contributed about 75 per cent of the total wagons shipped during the period. Industry and Trade Minister Innocent Bashungwa said the completion of the transport routes at the central corridor will boost economic growth in the country and accelerate industrialisation. WFP Country Representative Michael Dunford said over a year ago, MV Umoja ship departed Mwanza South Port carrying 18 containers full of humanitarian food assistance for its operation in Uganda. “The shipment marked the re-opening of the rail-lake-rail corridor on Lake Victoria which was closed over 10 years ago,” he explained. Mr Dunford said since its re-opening, WFP has transported almost 36,000 tonnes of food across Lake Victoria, with 40 per cent of the consignment purchased domestically, boosting the national economy and supporting smallholder farmers. He said the route had reduced transit time by up to 50 per cent and has significantly reduced prices, helping the UN agency to get food more quickly to the needy in the neighbouring, landlocked countries. “Last year, the corridor saved WFP enough money to meet food requirements for nine million people for one day,” he explained. He said in 2018, WFP purchased over 160,000 tonnes of food in Tanzania, injecting 60 million US dollars (over 130bn/-) into the local economy, up from 28 million dollars in 2017. To enhance the railway capacity, Mr Dunford said WFP has embarked on the 600,000 dollar rehabilitation of 40 wagons that are currently out of service. Other projects to connect the East African member states to reliable transport, include expansion of Mwanza Airport, which the Regional Commissioner John Mongella said was at an advanced stage. He mentioned crucial areas as cargo terminal which is ready, control tower that is almost ready as well and the runway as the preparations for the construction of passenger terminal at the airport is on progress.