LEXICOGRAPHERS tell us that a prison is “a building in which people are legally held as a punishment for a crime they have committed (and have judicially been convicted of), or while awaiting trial...” On the other hand, and a ‘necessary evil’ is “something unpleasant that must be accepted in order to achieve a particular result. It is, in other words, an evil which someone believes must be done or accepted because it is necessary to achieve a better outcome. This is especially because possible alternative courses of action or inaction are expected to be worse. In a sense, it is the ‘lesser evil’ in the ‘lesser of two evils principle’ which maintains that–given two bad choices, the one that is least bad is the better choice!” Got it? Well, let us then proceed with today’s LUCUBRATION on whether or not prisons a necessary evil... On April 22 this year, the Miami, US-based Moguldom Media Group () emailed me an article by one Ann Brown that Mouldon had published on April 19, 2019. Titled ‘Is prison necessary...? Prison abolitionist Ruth Wilson Gilmore changed the way people think about Criminal Justice,’ the article did not at first seem to amount to much... But, that was until the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, His Excellency Dr. John Pombe Joseph Magufuli (popular for short simply as ‘JPM’), personally made an inspection tour of the Butimba Prison in Mwanza Administrative Region on July 16 this year. The visit was impromptu; a surprise visit... But, it was historic in ways more than one. According to the ‘DAILY NEWS’ edition of Wednesday last week, the President “ordered fresh probes and retrials of all murder-related cases in the Region.” This was after listening to a few direct presentations and appeals by convicted prisoners and remandees, whereby Dr Magufuli directed the Mwanza Regional Police Commander, Mr Jumanne Muliro, to “immediately set up a Special Team that would freshly investigate all murder-related cases.” The prison inmates generally complained of false arrests, false charges, mistrials, false remands, false convictions, false sentencing, false imprisonment, etc., as well as brutal/laxity/lackadaisical handling of inmates by prison officials– such as allowing some prisoners to keep mobile phones in prison while others were penalized for that! On the other hand, Prison Warder Staff Sergeant Jonas Mabula–who was apparently on duty at the time of the President’s visit–complained of lacking amenities such as a prison ambulance, a staff bus, a metal detector, a boat... And overcrowding: some 2,000 inmates–more than a half of them remandees) in a facility with a capacity for half that number! In the event, the President generously promised to supply the vehicles, a tractor and metal detector... [See ‘Remandees’ complaints over incriminating cases: JPM orders retrials,’ By Daily News Reporter, July 17, 2019]. If nothing else, this brings us round and back to the original poser: are prisons a necessary evil – albeit the lesser of two evils? In the April 19, 2019 article by Ann Brown, we are told that “Ruth Wilson Gilmore considers herself a prison abolitionist who has worked for the past three decades to convince people that there needs to be not just major prison reform, but total abolition of the prison system in the United States.” Ms Gilmore is a Geography Professor of the University of California, Berkeley. She is reportedly “an influential figure in the Prison Abolition Movement that wants all prisons closed.” Abolitionists argue that the numerous reforms which have been implemented down the ages “have done little more than reinforce the system…” For example, in the self-styled ‘Land of the Free and Home of the Brave’–the United States of America–“reforms have not significantly reduced incarceration numbers. In the last decade, prison populations nationally have shrunk by only seven per cent–and 40 per cent of the reduction can be attributed to California which, in 2011, was ordered by the Supreme Court to reduce overcrowding,” The Crime Report noted. So, it had to take a Supreme Court order for the California State to reduce overcrowding in its prisons system... And, yet: the current US prison population is 2.3 million souls... Sheesh! Back from Trump-land to Bongo-land... A 2013 Survey found that, for example: the inmates holding capacity for the Dodoma Central Prison at Isanga is 784; but it was holding 1,338 prisoners; Maweni Prison in Tanga capacity: 920; (inmates held: 1,028); Keko Prison in Dar capacity: 420 (inmates held: 1,140)... [See ‘Prison congestion should be solved,’ ‘Daily News’ December 22, 2014]. So: are prisons a necessary evil? Is there a feasible, functional alternative to prisons? I’m still searching for an answer... Cheers! [israellyimo@gmail.com].