WITH recent Transparency International (TI), the global Corruption Barometer Africa, citing Tanzania as being one of the countries excelling in the fight considerably in Africa, President John Magufuli deserves accolades in the drive. Corruption affects us all. It threatens sustainable economic development, ethical values and justice; it destabilises our society and endangers the rule of law. It undermines the institutions and values of our democracy. However, the war has seen many achievements in the government sealing loopholes, which used to deny it its revenue collections. Which in turn made efforts to run public projects like health, water provision and education becoming slippery. Going by the global Corruption Barometer Africa report, 71 per cent of the Tanzanian population thinks their government is now doing a good job of tackling corruption, with the remaining 23 per cent still in doubt (no matter Thomas doubted resurrection of Jesus in the Bible). Since President Magufuli assumed the top seat in 2015, the nation has been in a concerted war against corruption, misconduct of officials, who abuse their offices and institutions, which oppress citizens and infringe their rights. According to the report, out of 35 nations in Africa, Tanzania has taken a lead on how her citizens perceive the government’s positive progress in tackling matters of corruption, followed by Sierra Leone, Lesotho, Nigeria, and Ghana. The report further illustrates that 50 per cent of the Tanzanian population think that ordinary citizens can make a difference in the war against corruption, instead of leaving the entire fight to the government. Expounding, the report has shown great progress in the Presidents and Prime Minister’s offices with the decrease of corruption activities from 15 to 4 per cent. From 21 to 8 per cent for members of parliament, government officials from 25 to 12 per cent, judges and magistrates from 36 to 21 per cent. The decrease is between the reports of 2015 and the recent of 2019. Business executives have decreased their corrupt practices from 37 to 32 per cent; While for religious leaders it is from 10 to 3 per cent and for traditional leaders the percentage has decreased from 13 to 3 per cent. Even though many people feel that corruption in the police force is still rife, the institution has reduced it from 42 to 34 per cent. The report also revealed that, bribery rates based on people who used public services, have decreased from 25 to 18 per cent; public clinics and health centres from 20 to 11 per cent, public schools from 11 to 4 per cent. The statistics are a comparison of the TI reports of the year 2015 and 2019. With the above, background corruption is a two way traffic that involves the giver and the receiver, collectively let us say no to it in order to accrue much revenue to the State to keep on sustaining and improving public projects. It starts with you and I.