INSPECTORS with Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) have seized and destroyed two tonnes of counterfeit products that were found being sold in several outlets in different parts of the city. The substandard products include lubricants oil, baby diapers, cosmetics and selling unhygienic under garments. Speaking form the Muriet landfill while supervising the exercise of destroying the counterfeit products at the weekend, an inspector with the government’s statutory body, Mr Godfrey Nguka, attributed the seizure to an impromptu raid on shops and outlets selling the substandard goods. According to Mr Nguka, his office sought to establish if the traders were compliant with the ban on counterfeit products in the country. “We will continue to be vigilant in ensuring that these products disappear from the market; TBS always aspires to see people getting the value of their money from whatever goods and products they buy,” he explained. The TBS official further appealed to the traders at the city market to adhere to the bureau’s directives to avoid inconveniences and losses that result from such crackdowns. He warned car owners to shun oil lubricants that haven’t been tested by the bureau of standards, noting that such lubricants had filled the market, worrying car owners immensely. “Why risk damaging your car engine by using lubricants that have neither been tested nor approved by us,” queried the TBS official. He singled out DOT 3 type of oil as a substandard lubricant which don’t deserve to be in the market, further appealing to car owners to go for DOT 4 and 5 types of lubricants. In the same vein, Mr Nguka cautioned traders engaging in the sale of substandard products, particularly those selling garments, to be on the lookout, lest they get caught by the standards watchdog. TBS had since 2009 launched a nationwide crackdown on secondhand undergarments currently on sale at local markets. The crackdown follows Tanzania’s decision of outlawing secondhand underwear for health related reasons. According to TBS, the operation is aimed at ensuring secondhand clothing is not used by Tanzanians over risks of contracting skin diseases. It is in accordance with the Standards Act of 2009 that prevents the use of secondhand undergarments.