THE outcome of trial of former senior officials with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), including President Jamal Malinzi, facing several fraud counts will be known on July 23, 2019. Resident Magistrate Maira Kasonde will deliver his ruling on that day on whether the accused persons have case to answer or not. This followed the decision by the prosecution to close its case against the accused person. In the trial, the prosecution led by an officer with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Leonard Swai called 15 witnesses. But before closing the evidence, the prosecutor requested the court to make some minor amendments to some of the charges. Among the amendments made related to the wording in counts two, three and four under which the accused are accused of forging executive committee minutes on the question of replacement of signatories of bank accounts of TFF. Under the amendments made, the charges would now read that the accused forged “resolution” and not “minutes.” Other accused are ex-TFF Secretary General Mwesigwa Selestine, Accounts Officer Nsiande Mwanga, TFF Office Manager Miriam Zayumba and Flora Rauya, the Clerk with the Federation. In total, all accused persons are facing 30 counts of conspiracy (Malinzi and Selestine), abuse of office (Malinzi and Selestine), 11 counts of forgery (Malinzi, Selestine, Miriam and Flora), uttering false documents (Selestine) and 12 counts of obtaining money by false pretences (Malinzi). Others are four charges of money laundering (Malinzi, Selestine and Mwanga). Facts of the case show that TFF holds and operates six accounts at Stanbic Bank Tanzania Limited and that Edgar Masoud, who was TFF Director of Finance and Accounting was one of the signatories of such accounts. With the view to change the signatory to such accounts, the prosecution told the court that on September 1, 2016, Selestine presented to the Bank, Center Branch a resolution dated June 5, 2016, purportedly made by TFF Executive Committee. It is alleged that with such resolution, Masoud was replaced by Mwanga. The prosecution alleged that such resolution was not an outcome of the Committee, but was forged by Malinzi and Selestine. After Selestine had introduced Mwanga to the Bank as their newly appointed signatory, she was recognised as TFF signatory and was involved in signing cheques, payment vouchers and other payment documents. On the other hand, according to the prosecution, for the time spanning from June 1, to December 31, 2016, Malinzi was raising false receipts on pretext that TFF had borrowed money from him. Miriam, who was TFF Office Manager and Flora were the ones who were writing the said receipts. The prosecution alleged further that the two accused persons did so notwithstanding the fact that they had not received money stated in the receipt from Malinzi. In the strength of the said false receipt, Malinzi was reclaiming payments, it is alleged. It claimed also that Selestine, in his capacity as TFF General Secretary was also the accounting officer and was allegedly involved in aiding Malinzi to be paid. Mwanga in her capacity as TFF signatory was also allegedly involved in signing some of the payment documents. The prosecution alleged in addition that as from June 1 to December 31, 2016, Malinzi claimed and actually was paid the sum of 173,335 US dollars and 43,100,000/-. In the strength of such claims, the accused persons were arrested, interrogated and arraigned in court facing the current charges.