TBL Group has pledged to support barley farmers while encouraging them to adopt modern technology and practices that will increase efficiency and productivity. TBL Barley Manager, Joel Msechu, made the remarks after successfully organizing the Barley Growers Day’ at Monduli in Arusha, over the weekend, that saw participation from farmers across Northern regions. “To empower farmers, TBL offers them with sufficient inputs and information to increase productivity while actively reducing environmental impact,” he said. He added, “We are strongly committed to Tanzania and through Barley Growers Day we plan to continue our outreach towards sustainable farm practices and we will continue to reach out to the farmers through this initiative to ensure more barley is procured in Tanzania in the next few years,” he said. Msechu said, “We can’t solve our sustainability challenges on our own and strongly believe with the right partnerships we can have a bigger impact on the field.” TBL Group collaborated with farmers to improve barley productivity in the country by introducing new varieties of seeds to help them grow commercial variety of Barley suitable to the soil and climatic conditions of Tanzania. The highlight of this event was the display of high yielding varieties of Barley and training of farmers by agriculture experts. The initiative also extended AB InBev’s global programme ‘Smart Barley’ to the farmers, which is aimed at transforming agriculture by leveraging data, technology and insights to help growers solve challenges and improve their productivity, livelihoods and environmental performance. He encouraged farmers to adopt the latest farming technology and practices for better productivity and promised that the company will continue to empower farmers in the country. The Chairman of Barley Farmers Association in Monduli, Arusha, Mr Leiyan Sokoine said, “we are attending this programme because it provides us the right kind of information which enables considerable increase in our productivity.”