TOP Malawi Defence Force (MDF) golfers will be among foreign golfers lined up to challenge for the forthcoming 2019 CBA Chairman Trophy Golf Championship. The 18 holes competition is scheduled to tee off on July 20th this year, at the par 72 Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo course of Dar es Salaam. Addressing the media in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Lugalo Chairman Michael Luwongo said that preparations are on top gear for the annual club competition to take place as planned. Luwongo said that they are happy that CBA Bank has agreed to bankroll this year’s event and to have top MDF golfers at the tournament. “Preparations are on top gear for the club to host the event, meant to bring club members together and also build friendship among them. “This year’s event will also experience new challenge from Malawi, where eight top MDF officials have already confirmed their participation,” he said. Luwongo thanked Malawi for honoring their invitation, adding that Malawi have advanced in the sport. He named confirmed golfers from Malawi as Lieutenant General (rtd) John Msouth, Major General Peter Namathanga, Brigadier General Chikukha Solo and Brigadier General Ian Chirwa. Others are Brigadier General Dan Kuwahi and Kondwani Kalino, Colonel Leonard Gunda and Braise Saenda. Luwongo expressed his gratitudes to TPDF Chief of Defence Forces (CDF) Venance Mabeyo, who also is the club’s Patron; for his tireless support that helped them to invite fellow senior golfers from Malawians. “We have invited our neighbours to exchange skills and challenge for the top honours, but also cement friendship through the sport,” he said. Sponsor CBA also said that they have invited Kenyan golfers, who will come to challenge hosts’ skills. CBA Marketing Manager Solomon Kawiche said that they decided to sponsor the event because golf is best place for players to harmonise friendship and networking. Lugalo Captain Japhet Masai said that the 18 holes stroke play nett competition will bring together amateur and professional golfers from Lugalo and invited golfers.