TANZANIA Premier League Board (TPLB), said infrastructure development is crucial for the smooth running of any football league in the country and the whole world at large. This was said by the board’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Boniface Wambura in Dar es Salaam recently as he announced that they plan to monitor all top flight league hosting venues, before the commencement of the new season. “Y ou can agree with me that most venues in the country are in bad state, something which retards efficient running of our league. Rough pitches make it hard for players to perfect and prove their ability,” he said. Wambura added that through deploying inspectors to the targeted stadiums, they will be able to update TPLB and Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), as to whether such venues are fit to stage premier league games, otherwise, teams will be forced to relocate to better arenas. Wambura noted that the main challenge to most stadium owners is failure to do pitch maintenance. “It is unfortunate that after the league season is over, nobody cares about keeping the pitches in good shape. In fact, after upgrading the pitch once, they think that it can be used throughout the entire season without regular maintenance something which is incorrect,” he said. He also pointed out that apart from the pitch, even dressing rooms, referee rooms and perimeter walls of some stadiums are unfriendly. Wambura said sending inspectors to monitor different playing fields will help to give them good feedback prior to the start of the season. He then named the National Stadium and Azam Sports Complex as some of the exemplary venues which do not require sending inspectors, saying they are already in good shape. In a related development, Wambura said they are in the final stages crafting next season’s league fixture as they continue consultations with various stakeholders aiming at making it friendly to all teams. “We are now in talks with our major partners TFF, official broadcaster of the league Azam TV and clubs on what we can do to make the fixture balanced to all competing teams,” he said. Furthermore, the TPLB boss said they are eager to end main challenges which surfaced during the first chapter of the 20-team league season.