PRESIDENT John Magufuli has launched seven projects at the Bugando Medical Centre (BMC), cautioning that the government will not hesitate to intervene in seeing a win-win situation in the health services offered jointly by the State and the religious community. He expressed the opinion here on Monday as he launched the projects at the centre worth 15bn/-, which included the new Oncology Department, Oxygen production unit and small industry for production of intravenous drugs, including distilled water. Other launched facilities were a rehabilitated Intensive Care Unit (ICU), National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) one stop centre, modern operating theatre and department for Deoxyribonucleic Acid and Polymerase Chain Reaction. “The government is providing a lot of funds to facilitate a number of operations, including salaries for the staff of the health facilities to be run jointly by the State and religious institutions like Bugando; therefore we have to make sure that services are improved and unnecessary referrals of patients to foreign hospitals are reduced,” he said. The President expressed misgivings over haphazard referrals of patients to overseas based health facilities, ordering thorough investigations and audits of medical bills of Tanzanian officials who went for treatment in different health facilities in India. According to the President, preliminary reports had emerged about officials accompanied by their spouses going to India ostensibly for specialised treatments, but ending up staying in expensive hotels like tourists. He tasked the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu to investigate the scandal, obtain the truth and report back to him for action. The Head of State declared that officials who would be proved to have been involved in the scandal would be ordered to pay back all the money spent contrary to intended authorised expenditures. He commended BMC for the idea of manufacturing distilled water and oxygen and challenged it to increase production and supply of the items to other hospitals countrywide at a cheaper price. “Why should we continue importing distilled water from Uganda? We can always make it on our own here and I will assist you to access loans from the banks so that you can embark on massive production and meet the demand,” said the President. BMC Director General Prof Abel Makubi said the zonal referral hospital was now ready to offer full fledged cancer treatment and other specialised services, thanks to support from the International Atomic Agency which supplied experts and equipment for the Oncology Department. He also asked for the government’s support as BMC embarks on the construction of a 60bn/- heart institute currently in the early stages of implementation. Chairman of the BMC board and Archbishop of Mwanza Catholic Archdiocese Renatus Nkwande, saluted the government’s support to the institution, noting that overall, the church was delighted by the improved services that the government was offering in various sectors.