WITH Simba reportedly eager to retain Emmanuel Okwi, the Ugandan striker is destined to complete a multimillion transfer to United Arab Emirates (UAE), top flight side; Fujairah FC, christened as ‘The Red Wolves’. He has also received offers from clubs in Egypt, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and his immediate past club, Simba. The development has been confirmed by the Egyptian based sports gem Seefaleslam Beleed. “The deal is 80 per cent complete as it is advanced stages between both parties (Okwi and Fujairah),” Seefaleslam says. Okwi was top scorer for Uganda Cranes (with two goals), at the on-going Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals in Egypt, where the Uganda Cranes were eliminated by Senegal (1-0) at the round of 16 stages. The winger–c um–f orward scored against the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), during U ganda Cranes’ 2-0 win where he also scooped the man of the match accolade. He was once again on target against Zimbabwe in the one all draw. A free agent at the moment following the expiration of his employment contract at Mainland champions’ side, Simba. Okwi has attracted a number of offers from Egypt, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, U nited Arab Emirates (U AE), and his p a r - ent club Simba. Okw i has previously played at Uganda’s Sports Club Villa, both of Tanzania’s top clubs Simba and Young Africans as well as brief stints in Tunisia (Etoile Du Sahel) and Denmark (Sønde rjyskE Fodbold). At Simba, Okwi is worshiped and idolized for his awesome display and g r e a t leaders h i p that he has also provided to the club. Little wonder, therefore, Simba remains a desperate party to retain the former St Henry’s Kitovu player, whose career has of later witnessed a gradual rise. Okwi thrives on either flank with quick bursts of pace, swift turns and excellent shooting towards goal with either foot. Of late, he has improved the hitherto grey area of heading the ball and scored a glancing header against Zimbabwe at AFCON 2019. He can also play with comfort as a ghosting center forward. For starters, Fujairah Football Club was founded in 1968 and has only won the U AE Pro league title thrice during the 1985–86, 1989–90 and recently 2005–06 s eason. Last season, they finished a dismissal 12th position on the 14 teams’ log.