THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has revealed that it has received 100 curriculum Vitae (CV) of coaches applying for the national team, Taifa Stars Head Coach post, but none of them is a Tanzanian. The home team is yet to sign a full time coach following the sacking of the then mentor Emmanuel Amunike who lost his last match 3-0 to 2019 Africa Cup of Nations ( AFCON) champions Algeria in the group stages of the competition. As of now, Burundian trainer Etienne Ndayiragije is the current Star’s interim coach who made his debut at the helm of the team against Kenya’s Harambee Stars at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. It will be the first leg battle for the 2020 Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers whose finals will be staged in Ethiopia and the return leg will be played in Kenya on August 2nd. However, breaking the news of the Head Coach post’s scramble was the federation’s General Secretary Wilfred Kidao who said they are keenly going through the applications whose number continues to grow day by day. “So far, we have received above 100 applications for the head coach position, but surprisingly, none of them is from Tanzania,” Kidao said. He added that, TFF has enforced a special programme which will be empowering young and talented domestic coaches as one way to make them ready to take up national coaching responsibilities in the future. “Despite the fact that we have not received applications from local coaches, whoever will be picked to navigate Taifa Stars, we will make sure that his technical bench has enough Tanzanians for them to get used working with the senior team,” he said. He, however, insisted that the doors are wide open for local coaches to apply saying they will have priority over their foreign counterparts. He further pointed out that they will seriously scrutinise all the applicants such that apart from their skills on paper, the federation will also look on their behaviour if they can withstand working in the country. Moreover, Kidao remarked that since the team has interim coach to sail it through the qualifiers of CHAN, the full time coach will be made available before the start of 2023 AFCON qualifiers. In a related development, Kidao said the federation is at the front pedal looking for new Technical Director to fill the vacuum left by its former bearer Ammy Ninje. “Technical Director is a key position at the federation that is why we are taking our time to identify the right person who will be able to successfully take charge of the post for a long time,” he said. Additionally, Kidao said both FIFA and UEFA have already advised TFF on what they ought to do to strengthen the federation’s technical department and are observing the available pieces of advice.