THE Public Service Social Security Fund (PSSSF), since embarked on a paperless system last month, it has seen improved efficiency and quality service delivery to the public. The revelation was made here yesterday by PSSSF Chief Public Relations Officer (PRO), Ms Eunice Chiume while addressing reporters, adding that they are now comfortable with the system including filings. “Since we embarked on electronic working system in all our avenue operations, including filing all documentations, we have witnessed blessed and improved efficiency” she pointed out. Ms Chiume further said that the system apart from improving work efficiency, it has reduced costs of purchasing papers and safe custody of documents. She further said that the system has also enabled their clients of more than 100,000 pensioners to have easy access and follow up case, adding that: “If there is a delay, it makes easy to know exactly one is stuck.” The PRO noted that all customers’ services delivery desks in all their regional offices are now capable of attending to many queries and complaints especially with provided toll free numbers and short messages system, making the work much easier. However, Ms Chiume called upon the members with any reservations or pieces of advice to use the platforms and get immediate assistance. She said that they will keep on with awareness programmes to the public and their members in particular as it realized at the just ended 43rd International Trade Fair Exhibition in Dar es Salaam that still need to inform people on their operations. “During the trade fair we attended to 381 pensioners and members queries as well as other 1,040 people, who required clarifications on a number of issues, especially from the administrators” added the PRO. Expounding, Ms Chiume said PSSSF has started using the Government Electronic Payment Gateway (GePG), to collect their members’ monthly contributions, investments revenue to the state. She said that the use of the system has created transparency and openness in revenue collection, besides improving their work and communication to the public to know their employers’ remittance records.