SIMBA’s pre-season camp in South Africa has started in full swing and the club has been cleared by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to use grey colour jersey as spare outfit. The club’s chief Executive Officer (CEO) Crecentius Magori told a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the team safely arrived in Johannesburg, South Africa on Monday and started pre-season training. Simba departed on Monday for a pre-season camp in South Africa ahead of the upcoming busy calendar, which will see them playing in three major competitions like the Mainland Premier League, CAF Champions League and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC). And, Magori said that CAF has cleared the club to use grey colour outfit as a spare, in case of emergency. Simba’s official known club colours are red and white, with the red colours used as a home kit, while white colour jerseys will be used for away matches. He said they (Simba) submitted three registered colour outfits to CAF, which is in accordance with Article 30 of continental football body statutes, which stipulates that each team must wear the colours registered by its club. The statutes further stipulates that the colours and their arrangement must be shown on the standard entry form for admission to the CAF Champions League and must be communicated by CAF Secretariat to all the participating associations before the start of the competition. Article 31 (1) states that when, in the opinion of the referee, the official and duly registered colours of the two opposing teams might lead to confusion, the visiting team must change its jerseys. Article 31 (2) states that if the match is played in a neutral country, a draw shall be made to determine the team having to change its jerseys, and (3) states that every team must have a spare outfit available, other than their originally registered colours. Speaking prior to the team’s departure to Johannesburg, Simba skipper John Bocco admitted that there will be more competition for playing time in the squad next season due to the presence of quality players. Bocco said competition among the players is likely to be high since everybody will be eager to showcase high classy football to win trust from the technical bench. “In football, when players compete for playing time, usually the team performs better unlike when such competition is missing. It is my hope that such competitions will be done with much love among ourselves to enable the team fulfill its objectives,” Bocco said. Adding, the former Azam FC hit man urged his teammates to put the club’s objective above them in order for them to have another good chapter and help to propel the club further. “I believe that if we will have a good season as a team, then it will be a great platform for players to be seen by other big teams outside the country. We will therefore fight to our ability to bring the desirable successes at the club and for individual players,” said he. Elaborating more on the camp they have gone to pitch in South Africa, Bocco said it is part and parcel of preparations for the next season as they want to do much better than the previous one. He then called upon the club supporters across the country to continue rallying behind them insisting that they are ready to fight on the pitch to satisfy their fans. “Let me laud our passionate fans who have always been with the team. I believe that they are a perfect ingredient which enables us to do well in most of our matches. We dearly thank them a lot,” the captain said.