THOUGH translocation of wild animals from one ecosystem to the other is considered to be a risky undertaking, wildlife experts believe the advantages and biodiversity benefits of a successful translocation far outweigh the risks and challenges involved. For critically endangered eastern black rhino, a species whose numbers are extremely limited, conservation organizations translocating these precious rhino are often looking farther afield and in many cases bringing captive-bred animals, to boost numbers and genetic diversity in the wild. In an interview with the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, the Executive Director of Grumeti Fund, Mr Stephen Cunliffe, maintained that translocations were an essential part of the re-establishment of locally extinct species and the recovery of severely depleted wildlife populations. “There are inherent risks involved [with translocations] but this is a critical conservation tool to reestablish the full suite of biodiversity in a protected area,” explained Mr Cunliffe who heads the non-profit Grumeti Fund that works closely with Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) to carry out wildlife conservation and community development work in the western corridor of the Serengeti ecosystem in Tanzania. His assertion comes two weeks after the death of Zambezi; a male black rhino from Port Lympne Reserve in the United Kingdom. Zambezi was being transported by air from Kent to Tanzania as part of a programme to bolster the current population of black rhino within the Serengeti ecosystem when he met his fate whilst still airborne over the Mediterranean. The male black rhino was accompanied by a team from the Grumeti Fund, alongside one of his dedicated keepers from The Aspinall Foundation and one of the foremost rhino vets in Africa who is experienced in the immobilization and movement of rhinos and other large animals. Even after Zambezi’s untimely demise, the Grumeti Fund has maintained its commitment to pursue the plan to re-establish a new satellite black rhino population, increasing the current number and genetics of eastern black rhino in the Serengeti ecosystem. This is not the first time the Grumeti Fund has translocated wild animals from one ecosystem to another. Last year, the Fund successfully introduced Eric – a 1,157 kilogramme eastern black rhino bull from the San Diego Zoo Safari Park in the USA – into the 350,000-acre private concession. “Eric is doing great and has adapted well to his new home where he is now moving freely within the 275 hectare rhino Intensive Protection Zone,” he disclosed. Since the rhino was released into the larger Intensive Protection Zone four months ago, he has been making great progress in his naturalization to the surrounding environment. He shares the area with a female rhino known as Laikipia. The team at the Grumeti Fund has noted that Eric and Laikipia have now been seen together on numerous occasions. While not actually observed mating, there have been a lot of scuffed footprints and broken bushes leading the rhino monitoring team to hope and speculate that there may be a new arrival on the way in the future. While there is a very big need to re-establish black rhino to their rightful home in the Serengeti, most of the wildlife within this protected area, such as elephant, buffalo and lion, are thriving. In order to ensure the ecosystem and the wildlife within it is well rounded and balanced, there are further conservation projects that the Grumeti Fund and Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (Tawiri) are jointly developing to bolster rare species populations, such as the greater kudu, in the western Serengeti.