THE Heads of State of Tanzania and Kenya have agreed to build strong economic relations that will benefit the two countries.President John Magufuli and President Uhuru Kenyatta had private talks before addressing journalists. The Kenyan President arrived in Chato District, Geita Region, on a two-day private visit on Friday. Speaking to Chato residents, the two Heads of State asked them to ignore hate speeches made by some politicians, who were seeking political mileage without considering the consequences. They said there would be none to separate the people in the two countries since they were one by nature. Yesterday, the two Heads of States said there was a need for the two countries to improve businesses through a win-win situation. President Magufuli said they had agreed that Kenyan investors, who owned many companies in Tanzania, could establish processing plants in the country instead of transporting raw materials to Kenya. The two leaders had also agreed Kenya to purchase gas from Tanzania instead of importing it from abroad. Accordingly, ministers from the two countries have been instructed to meet immediately to draw a roadmap on how Kenya will start purchasing gas from Tanzania. On Lake Victoria, President Magufuli said they had agreed to ensure Kenyan, Tanzanian and Ugandan vessels operated without any problem. He said the vessels from the two countries must operate for the purpose of boosting businesses and building the economy. He said Lake Victoria must benefit all surrounding countries and its people. Tanzania occupies 51 per cent of the lake, followed by Uganda (44 per cent) and Kenya (5 per cent). For his part, President Uhuru said he was overwhelmed by the welcome he received from the people of Chato and Tanzania in general. He noted that his delegation was grateful to Tanzanians’ generosity and kindness, which actually translated into strong relationship between the two countries. He explained that good relationship between the two countries was initiated by the founding fathers, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. “Tanzania and Kenya have also agreed to ensure peace by respecting laws and Tanzanian criminals, who will be arrested in Kenya, will be charged by using Kenyan laws and the vice-versa to Kenyans, who will be arrested in Tanzania,” he said. He insisted that there was no need for both Tanzanians and Kenyans to waste time discussing trivial issues, instead they must focus on doing businesses and developing their countries’ economies. The two Heads of State have agreed also to bring together the widows of the founding fathers in Dar es Salaam for three days so that they could discuss issues initiated by the founding fathers. The meeting will bring together Mama Maria Nyerere, Mama Ngina Kenyatta and Mama Miria Obote. While at President Magufuli’s home village (Mlimani), President Uhuru had an opportunity to lay a wreath on the family’s graveyard. He later visited President Magufuli’s mother Bibi Suzana, who is recovering after she was discharged from Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) in Dar es Salaam and later taken to her home in Chato. President Magufuli has given four peacocks to his guest as a gift and asked him to keep them so that they could remind him of good relationship between Tanzania and Kenya.