NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars won’t be the same after Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt, the team’s coach Emannuel Amunike and skipper Mbwana take the whole mission very rewarding to Tanzanian football. Samatta has said Tanzanians should be proud of their team despite shaky start at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), finals in Egypt. Taifa Stars fell to a 2-0 loss to Senegal in their opening group C game in the tournament at the 30 June Stadium in Cairo last Sunday, with goals from Keita Balde and Krepin Diatta before losing 3-2 to Kenya in a five-goal thriller in their second match. Emmanuel Amunike charges were due to Algeria in their third group match at the same venue late last night in a match that served as pride restoration for Taifa Stars. The KRC Genk striker said the fact that Taifa Stars managed to make it into the finals of the continental major showpiece after missing out for 39 years, was a big achievement and the players are picking important lessons from the event. “We need to be proud of our team just for making it into the finals…we need to put our shoulders back and walk proud. We should stop licking our wounds and instead, we need to celebrate them because the team is in the learning process,” Samatta told the ‘Daily News’ in an exclusive interview. He said the scars the team bears are the signs of a competitor, insisting that from a competition of such a magnitude, players and the technical bench always pick important lessons which will help them to come back strong in the future. “This learning process is not only for players and the technical bench, but it is as well for the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), leadership, the government, sponsors, football stakeholders and all fans,” he said. “I’m pleased to see several top TFF and government officials including Members of the Parliament coming up here, to support us and learn from the ground. It is important for the whole country to understand what is entailed in the AFCON finals and I hope our leaders have seen it for themselves,” he said. “I can assure you, when we qualify again; we will be completely the different team. And, we will work hard to be in the finals again because we’ve tasted its sweetness,” he said. Additionally, Stars trainer Amunike who said his charges would improve with time, saw that improvement in the second match against Kenya Harambee Stars. Taifa Stars made Kenyans to sweat before netting the winner in the late minutes. Commenting further, the Nigerian legend believes that in every journey there is always a process of adaptation and process of building confidence. “Whether we like it or not, and whether we are realistic to ourselves the reality remains the same, in 39 years a lot of things have happened, a lot of players have played and retired and a lot of good generations are still coming up.