EXPORT Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) has urged Ruvuma Region to put enabling environment for attracting investors to tap massive investment opportunities in the region. Speaking at a presentation as part of the activities during the launch of the Ruvuma Investment Guide and Forum over the weekend, the EPZA Director General Col (Rtd) Joseph Simbakalia said the area for investment with all the required infrastructural facilities including roads, electricity and water is the foremost requirement that can attract investment flow in the region. According to 2016 GDP estimates, Ruvuma Region was among the top eleven regions with the highest contribution to national Gross Domestic Product. In terms of GDP per capita, the region ranked fourth after Dar es Salaam, Iringa and Arusha. Ruvuma Region is endowed with massive investment potentials for which the EPZA boss emphasized the need to put in place enabling environment to attract local and foreign investors. Simbakalia said one of the EPZA tasks is to identify and take control of the investment areas on behalf of the government and attract investors. “However, this should not be done by EPZA alone but we encourage regional and district authorities to collaborate in speeding up the process of setting investment areas necessary for attracting investors for industrial development,” he said. The regional investment guide launched by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa is meant to cater for the needs for sorts of productive activities in the region, broadening information to local investors and potential foreign investors. According to the investment guide, there are also plenty of opportunities to invest in new and existing agroprocessing and manufacturing industries, given that 96 per cent of them are small-scale establishments, more than 207, with possibilities to upgrade to medium and large-scale industries. Currently, there are only 19 medium-scale industries, most of which are in Songea Municipality and Mbinga town Council.