VODACOM Tanzania has donated 300 desks worth 61.36m/-to Salunda and Somanda primary schools in Bariadi, Shinyanga, at a handover ceremony held at Sengerema Primary School. The donation was set to benefit over 400 students and its hand-over ceremony was witnessed by Bariadi District Commissioner (DC), Festo Kiswaga. The move is in support of the government’s effort to curb the existing shortage of desks in primary schools and increase availability of basic school infrastructure countrywide. Speaking during the ceremony, DC Kiswaga said the 300 desks will greatly improve access of learning facilities as well as the learning condition for children in Bariadi and called upon other well-wishers to come forward and join the effort to offset the remaining shortage of desks in the district. “As we all know, education is an instrumental vehicle of development. We sincerely want to thank Vodacom for supporting us in our effort to improve access of learning facilities and offset the existing shortage of desks in schools here”, Mr Kiswaga said. The DC believed that the 300 desks will go a long way in enabling hundreds of children to school at favorable environment needed for effective learning. Vodacom Tanzania Lake Zone, Head of Consumer Business Department, Dominician Mkama, said the donation is in line with the new Vodacom Tanzania Foundation’s strategy of contributing towards fostering human development, through inclusive and quality education. “Education is a fundamental human right and a key aspect of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. The donation is part of Vodacom’s investment in human development projects that have high impact to the community,” Mkama said. Vodacom has been actively engaging with communities and collaborating with social partners to tackle national challenges, including education and last year, they were able to reach 60,023 students through Instant schools’ platform. Vodacom continues to support government’s effort to make education accessible and conducive for every child in Tanzania, under the country’s Development Vision 2025.