THE Australian-Tanzanian Services Foundation Inc. (ATSFI), has donated over US dollars 40,000 worth of medical equipments to Temeke hospital and Yombo Vituka Health Centre within Temeke District council in Dar es Salaam Region. A total of 267 pieces of 37 different medical equipment, including Complete Theatre Anaesthetic Unit, Gurneys (stretcher with legs and wheels), dental chair, hospital beds and their mattresses have been donated to the hospital, the Assistant Medical Officer of Yombo Vituka Health Center Dr Mainda Zayumba, said. “We are grateful for the donation, especially because it has come at the right time. The theater building has just been completed and it can be used as the donation has come with complete theater equipments,” she remarked, adding: “Our theater room is now complete with the needed equipment; we are just waiting for them to be installed and expect that by the first of July, it will be operational. The remaining equipments will be used once the expansion of the health center is completed.” ATSFI has also donated over 15 computers which will enable the health center to join the national government network system of registering patients, dubbed GoT-HoMIS (Health Data Collaborative). “We would have incurred great expense in acquiring the computers but now it is easy as we are just waiting for the installations to be completed and every department will have its own computer, and we will also start serving patients using GoT-HoMIS,” stated Dr Zayumba. She explained further that the foundation through Dr Joseph Masika OAM (Medal of the Order of Australia.) who visits the hospital frequently, noticed the electricity problem and promised to donate a solar system to power the center whenever electricity supply interruptions occurred. “We cannot afford to purchase our own generator at the moment, but Dr Masika asked us to send specifications of the solar system we need and has promised to donate it through his foundation in the near future,” she said. “We are grateful to Dr Masika and his foundation for all the donations we have received; he is a fellow Tanzanian who is proud of his country and does not hold back in giving back to the community.” This is the second time the health center has received donations from Dr Masika. “The first time we were able to share the donation with Temeke, Muhimbili and Mwananyamala hospitals. The White Ribbon Ambassador, Dr Masika appealed to all Tanzanians in Diaspora to use their inherent social capital values to pool resources to support basic infrastructure and services such as classrooms and education facilities, health equipment and access to clean water and electricity to communities in Tanzania.