AN old woman, Ester Lyimo is in trouble for allegedly torturing to death her nine-year-old granddaughter, Naomi John in 2017 in Dar es Salaam. Dragged to Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Ms Lyimo is standing trial for murder at the High Court for allegedly beating the granddaughter to death. The prosecution alleges that Naomi was killed in 2017 after being subjected to frequent beatings and intolerable suffering in Ms Lyimos’s hands, while staying with her at Tuangoma area, Kigamboni District. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Pamela Mazengo, who is conducting the trial under extended jurisdiction, the prosecution called yesterday a detective police officer as another witness in the trial. The witness, Sergeant Mgeni, gave a detailed account of how she investigated the sad incidence and unveiled pictures showing how Naomi’s body looked with all signs that she was brutally murdered. Led by Senior State Attorney Secilia Mkonongwa, the witness testified that on the evening of March 25, 2017, while at home, she was called by her boss, who informed her about the murder incidence. The witness testified that the boss directed her to take charge of the investigations into the matter and after reading the file, she discovered that there were three suspects linked to the murder of the young girl. According to the witness, who was at Mbagala Police Station before being transferred to Dodoma, she identified two other suspects identified as Victoria and Jacqueline at the station after being linked in the murder. Sergeant Mgeni pointed out that on the next day; she picked Victoria to lead them to Naomi’s family house at Tuangoma area, being the scene of the crime. On reaching there, the witness said that in company of other detectives, they found two boys, one aged seven with a lean body that looked like that of a lizard full of scars everywhere in his body and the other aged about 13 years. She further said that on inquiring about the whereabouts of the boys’ mother, the duo responded that she had taken Naomi to the hospital. During her investigations, the witness also got an opportunity to talk to neighbours, who confirmed that Naomi and her colleagues had been experiencing severe torture from the accused person. On March 28, 2017, she said, the mother of the deceased came to the police station, where afterwards, they accompanied her to Temeke Hospital, where Naomi’s body was examined. “Looking at the outward appearance, the body of the deceased was seriously damaged. There were some parts which seemed like burnt. The private part, (…..) was enlarged and it appeared an item was being injected in it,” the witness accounted.