IT is now official, the second phase of the Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS), management system by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), is coming into full force tomorrow (August 1, 2019), covering sweetened or flavoured bottled water and other nonalcoholic drinks. Execution of the second phase of ETS follows successful implementation of the first phase which kicked-off on January 15, 2019, which was applied to cigarettes, wines, beers, spirits and all other kinds of alcoholic drinks which are either manufactured in Tanzania or imported. Through the new electronic stamps which replace the paper stamps, the tax collector aims at enhancing transparency and curbs cheating by unscrupulous manufacturers and importers in collection of excise duty, value added tax (VAT), and corporate tax. The newly appointed Commissioner General of TRA, Dr Edwin Mhede, however announced recently through a public notice that the new system will not cover fruit or vegetable juices and bottled water for the time being. I penned in this very column few months ago stressing on the need for individuals and corporate institutions to pay requisite taxes to governments to enable them improve social services for the majority citizenry. In just few months of the first phase, TRA recorded improved revenue collections with data showing that revenues collected from spirits alone increased from 18.5bn/- between January and March 2018 to 22.7bn/- during the same period this year. What is more, an analysis of month-by-month evaluation of total excise and VAT collected from spirits, cigarettes and beers shows a substantial increase between the year 2018 and the period ending March, this year. This is mainly due to execution of ETS since the taxman is able obtain on real time all products being produced at the end of respective production line through the modern technology which has been installed at factories manufacturing the prescribed goods. Implementation of the second stage of ETS follows a long journey since Finance and Planning Minister, Philip Mpango told parliamentarians in the august House in Dodoma last year that the government was planning to introduce the system by September, last year. It was obvious by then that players in the industry were not prepared for the technology and given the teething problems at that time the government considered views from stakeholders and pushed the introduction to January 15, this year. Nevertheless, TRA floated a tender for a contractor to supply the software and hardware of ETS in which a Swiss firm with expertise in the sophisticated technology, Socié té Industrielle et Commerciale de Produits Alimentaires (SICPA), won the tender. In the recent public notice, Dr Mhede allayed fears among local manufacturers and importers that products which are covered under phase two but are not affixed with the electronic tax stamps prior to introduction of ETS will continue to be traded for up to January 31, 2020. The products in question are those which are currently in distribution in the market and warehouses of either the manufacturers or importers. All these products must however be affixed with the electronic stamps by January 31, next year. The taxman was on the other hand categorical that all manufactures or importers of the specified goods shall be required to declare all quantities of unsold products in their possession which are not affixed with ETS to declare them to TRA regional offices before the effective date. President John Magufuli is on record emphasizing that the government will move forward with the plan to install the technology to boost the Treasury Coffers for socio-economic development of present and future generations. Dr Magufuli made the stance when addressing a public rally at Makambako Township in Njombe Region on Tuesday, April 9, this year, during his tour of southern regions. The Head of State stunned the gathering at the rally when he disclosed how some crooked officials at TRA have been conniving with industrialists to print ghost paper stamps. Through such abuses, the government lost revenues amounting to billions of shilling. With such losses and cheating, it is apparent that ETS is the way forward in curbing these leakages and improve tax collections. The importance of paying taxes is even stressed in the Bible where Jesus Christ is quoted in Matthew 22:21, telling his disciples and followers thus; “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s; and to God the things that are God’s.”