DREAMS by Tabora-based tobacco farmer Ramadhani Malengo of getting over 6.5bn/- as general damages and compensation for alleged material loss of business on alleged breach of contract have flopped. This follows the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights’ dismissal of application that Malengo lodged against the government of Tanzania, as the respondent state. The applicant had prayed for the intervention of the continental court, expressing dissatisfaction in a High Court of Tanzania’s judgment that awarded him a mere 6m/- as damages instead of 675,635,925/-, a decision which was later confirmed by the Court of Appeal of Tanzania. Before the African Court, the applicant requested to be paid 2.5bn/- as damages and other 4,272,486,600/- as compensation for the material loss for breach of contract relating to the sale of tobacco. The respondent state, through a team of attorneys from the state, strongly objected to the application. They in addition raised an objection on the jurisdiction of the court, stating that the application neither made reference to nor requested for the interpretation of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, the protocol or any relevant human rights instruments ratified by the respondent state. In the deliberations, the court determined that it had jurisdiction to consider the matter having observed that the applicant alleged various human rights covered by the African Charter and therefore dismissed the respondent state’s objection. With regard to other conditions of jurisdiction provided for in Article 3(1) of the Protocol, the court held it had personal jurisdiction given that the respondent state is party to the protocol and has deposited the declaration prescribed under Article 34(6) of the Protocol. The court further determined that its temporal and territorial jurisdiction were confirmed as the applicant’s alleged violations happened after ratification of the charter by the state, guaranteeing the rights, which were allegedly violated. On the admissibility of the application, the court noted that the respondent state raised two objections, including the application being not compatible with Constitutive Act of the African Union and that the applicant failed to file his application within a reasonable time after exhaustion of local remedies. In accordance with Article 6(2) of the Protocol and Rule 39 (1) of the Rules, the court considered whether the requirements of admissibility as provided under Article 56 of the Charter and Rule 40 of the Rules have been met.