RECENTLY, the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) organized the 14th Exhibition on Higher Education, Science and Technology at Mnazi Mmoja Grounds in Dar es Salaam. We go through two articles in which writers discuss some ideas related to the event. Article one is titled: “A little advice to prospective university candidates” (Good Citizen on Sunday, 21 July, p. 21), in which the writer urges students to be careful with their choice of the courses to take at a university: “In Tanzania education system, one of the key stages is advanced level of secondary education, which is the ladder to ‘pinnace’ of schooling – the university. This is where ‘nation’s’ future intellectuals make career choices. Their choices collectively play a great role in determining the future ‘fortunate’ of our dear motherland”. You will agree with me that the word “pinnace” is missing its “l”, and should really be “pinnacle”, which means, the most successful point; the culmination; the peak; the apex; the highest level; and so on. Also the word “fortunate” should really be “fortunes”. We are proposing to re-write the three sentences; adding a hyphen here, an article there, and sometimes changing the order of words, as follows: “One of the key stages in Tanzania’s education system, is the advanced level of secondary education, which is the ladder to the ‘pinnacle’ of schooling – the university. This is where ‘the nation’s’ future intellectuals make career choices. Their choices collectively play a great role in determining the future ‘fortunes’ of our dear motherland”. The writer notes that it is not easy for candidates to make a choice: “Sometimes the candidates find themselves in ‘a catch-22’”. What is a catch-22, you may ask? A catch-22 situation is a dilemma or circumstance from which there is no escape because of mutually conflicting or dependent conditions. For example, if you are a young graduate looking for a job, you may find yourself in a catch-22 situation where to get a job you need experience and to get experience you need a job. To get out of this, you find some graduates offering to work for free, in order to accumulate experience. But, even such openings are very few. A catch-22 situation indeed! The article titled “SUA outlines its contributions to industrial development”, to be found on page 3 of the Echo of July 26, offers some advice. But before reading further, I recommend to change the title to read: “SUA outlines its contribution ‘to’ (not ‘in’) industrial development”. An official of Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) is reported to have: “‘suggested’ the parents and students in general, to ‘think’ joining SUA saying they can’t regret ‘from ignorance’ and also ‘fights against poverty’”. The official is reported to have further said: “Once you graduate ‘at’ SUA you are guaranteed to be experts ‘on’ a particular field, you are not taking degrees but you become experts. I ‘suggest’ students to choose SUA for their future success”. Do you “suggest” parents or students to do this or that? You advise them, or suggest or recommend to them. Do you “think” joining SUA? You possibly “think of” joining SUA. Do you become an expert “on” a particular field? Most likely, you become an expert “in” a particular field. Let us re-write what the official may have said. We are leaving out phrases such as, “saying they can’t regret ‘from ignorance’ and also ‘fights against poverty’”, since we cannot decipher what the writer had in mind. Here we go: “She recommended to the parents in general and to the students in particular, to think of joining SUA, ………..”; “Once you graduate ‘from’ SUA, you are guaranteed to be ‘an expert’ ‘in’ a particular field. I advise students to choose SUA for their future success”. The SUA spokes person had glowing words for the Government: “The government disbursed ‘fund’ to build greenhouses, they have been issued funds to build those houses in 70 districts and then are ‘ought’ to train ‘youth’ in those districts concern the knowledge”. There is possibly no need to re-write the above paragraph, but the writer wanted to point to the funds provided by the government to buy and install greenhouses in 70 districts and train the youth on how to use them.