Earth is a beautiful living planet with more than seven billion human population and millions of species of biodiversity. Our Earth provides us with food, shelter and with most of our requirements. However, many are not aware of the impact that they have on the environment. For those that do not know, caring for the environment does not require you to become an environmental activist. Just needs one to be eco-conscious! Human beings are the major cause of the environmental problems today, and they are also with some of the solutions to save it. A Tanzanian filmmaker Richard Magumba, who got seven (7) nominations from a film he created, dubbed ‘Fahari Yetu’ in just six months, managed to perfectly portray the concept. The nominations he managed to get from January to June this year are Dadasaheb Phalke International Film Festival in India (DPIFF). New York Lift-Off Film Festival, Mashariki African Film festival in Rwanda, Young African Film Makers Award (YAFMA) in Belgium. International Nature Film Festival Gödöllő in Hungary. The XXIII International TV Ecological Festival in Russia which entered semifinals, and Zanzibar International Film Festival (ZIFF), chronologically. The film explains how Zanzibar community at Menai Bay Conservation area and Kazimkazi identified the problem and came up with the solution that saved the sea and activities they conducted on it. It portrayed how fishermen brought about their own development changes, from low fish count and illegal fishing to having fish abundance and coming up with other income generating activities like farming and tourism, he said. “This story was of a long time ago, it explains how the society after accepting that they had a problem, did not just leave it for the government and respective authorities but assisted in advocating for the solution. I managed to capture it and show that a community after realizing a problem can create their own solution that is of more benefit,” he remarked. This was by chance, after he received an Agha Khan Foundation grant advertised to create a film concerning the environment. “Environment and culture are two things that are close to my heart and I am passionate about them,” he said. “I chose the story focusing at the Menai Bay Conservation area, because I did not want to only portray the problems our community faces, but also display how the community surrounding the problem can be a solution.” The community at Menai organized themselves and went to Zanzibar fisheries and raised their concerns on how the harvest is low. The authorities together with marine division of the Zanzibar University and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), conducted a thorough research to identify the root course of the problems, he narrated. They discovered some of the problems involved included over fishing, which led to the decrease of fish in the sea; dynamite fishing that caused harm to the eco system and destroyed marine life and coral reefs; as well as decrease number of Dolphins as they were catching and using them as bait to catch other type of fish. They advised them on what was to be done to rectify the situation, he said. After the advice, the society continued their fishing activities as they were recommended. They manage to organize themselves and conduct patrols protecting the sea. They came up with seasonal fishing, and fishing practices of using Dolphins as bait was stopped. “Now there are great changes in their fishing activities after a long time of bad practices, the Menai bay conservation has become more than just a fishing community.” The number of fish has increased, so has the number of Dolphins and income has increased as well. “It has become a learning place where people go to get education on how to preserve the environment.” More tourists are now going at the area to see the dolphins and even some of the fishermen have engaged themselves with tourism. To this end the community has set up village level Conservation Committees to restrain illegal fishing using circular nets and blasting techniques. The locals at the area realized regulations set alone are not enough, now they also bring awareness to the community as well; educating children to elders on proper conducts on how to preserve the environment. These efforts have attracted bottle-nose and humpback dolphins to the shores of their village. The villagers who were earlier killing these animals for food and using them as bait are now deriving economic benefits working with their boats as guides to show the dolphins to visitors. Facing a lot of challenges, Magumba has been in the industry for the past ten years, preparing films from all spectrums not forgetting his passion of culture and environment. From all the nominations abroad, he only managed to attend the XXIII International TV Ecological Festival in Russia. “All thanks to the Russia Tanzania culture Center (RTCC), Nipe Fagio and Rosa-Luxemburg- Stiftung.” “After I found out about my nomination and an invitation was sent, I made extra efforts to contact various places to get financial support to assist me attend it. RTCC assisted me and contacted others to contribute as well.” He noted that, going for the film festival in Russia was a great experience and an exposure where he got to exchange ideas with other worldwide film makers. “I have been lucky enough to get to join other film makers across the world. It was a great experience with an abundance of exposure. But just imagine what I have lost in all the other nomination invitations I could not attend because of luck of funds?” he posed. This is a great challenge as there are no mobility funds placed for such things that allow us to advertise our country to other nations worldwide, he stated. “The respective authorities should set a specific place where a person can go ask for funds if you have something to showcase that advertises our country,” he suggested.