THE government has taken over 88 water projects currently being implemented by private contractors in various district councils after detecting massive misappropriation of funds. Announcing the decision here on Wednesday, Minister for Water Prof. Makame Mbarawa said the government would now undertake the projects, to steer clear of losses occasioned by inflated costs by crooked contractors. Demonstrating the government’s seriousness to reset the sector on the right track, the minister also announced that it was taking over the Shilima Water Project in Kwimba District whose implementation had been dragging for six years so far, over unsatisfactory reasons. Initially, the Shilima project contractor, Palemon Co Ltd, was supposed to complete the work in March this year even after the implementation period was extended several times from 2013. It will now be implemented by the Mwanza Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Mwauwasa) Further verifications showed that the Shilima project valued at 3.2bn/-was inflated by 1.2bn/-more with the government now revealing that only 2bn/-would suffice. While the government was charting out the modalities for legal action against contractors and civil servants suspected of involvement in the scandals, regional water authorities in collaboration with the newly established Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Authority (Ruwasa), will oversee the projects. “I have tasked Ruwasa to work hard and come up with a new mindset to ensure that sure water projects are implemented within the set timeframe realize value for money. The business as usual culture has no room in our operations anymore,” he remarked. Prof. Mbarawa urged Ruwasa to strictly adhere to ethics and financial accountability, seemingly upset after discovering that it was set to spend 252m/-for its launching ceremony. It was ridiculous, he remarked, that Ruwasa was contemplating spending such a huge amount of money on a party, directing that it should be allocated to one of the water projects currently under implementation. “People need water and not parties any more. We have to be serious and, as such, I have told Ruwasa to craft a new mindset and focus on the interests of the people,” he said. Prof Mbarawa said must Ruwasa critically think about how to attain its targets of streamlining the rural water sector, saying it had ample resources, which included 150bn/-from the Water Fund and 800bn/-from the World Bank. Earlier, the Kwimba District Water Engineer, Boaz Pius, said in a report that the Shilima water project, which is scheduled for completion in two months’ time, would benefit 16,000 residents of Sangu, Gurumwa, Mwalubungwe and Kikubiji villages. He said over the last six years, the project was implemented by only 45 percent but expressed optimism that under MWAUWASA, it would be commissioned on time.