THREE Brazilian players who have signed with Simba this season said they are looking forward to the ‘Simba Day’ event to see the club’s passionate fans. The trio; Tairone Santos da Silva (30), Gerson Fraga Vieira (26) and Wilker Henrique da Silva (23) are among the Simba squad members expected to leave today for a pre-season camp in South Africa. However, speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam, Gerson said he has already heard about Simba supporters and is really looking forward to see them on Simba Day which falls on August 8th at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. “Everybody is talking much about this great day (Simba Day). They are saying about the atmosphere and energy which comes on the day. We simply want to see our fans and let them see us playing as well. To say the truth, we will fight as much as we can,” he said. He further said they are very happy to be trading at Simba and eager to storm the pitch as soon as possible in front of many football fans while revealing that their manager is the one who convinced them to land at Simba. Asked to comment on how he felt when he captained the Brazil U-17 side which had big world names like Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior and Philippe Coutinho, Gerson said he was honoured to be part of that squad and to play alongside big players. “It was a great time of my life to share the same platform with them. We still contact each other at some time,” said him. In the same token, his compatriot Tairone said he is overwhelmed with the good reception received from Tanzanians and said he cannot wait to experience extraordinary atmosphere on the Simba Day. Also, another Brazilian Wilker (striker), narrated that he has been seeing on social media how Simba fans cherish a lot their team as such, he is eager to personally witness the pleasure by himself. Another new blood at Simba, Kennedy Wilson (defender), who has joined the Msimbazi Street giants from Singida United, said his dream to play at one of the biggest clubs in the country has been fulfilled. “I am happy with the warm reception from my fellow players and I believe that together, we will be able to push our time from one place to another,” said him. He then called for many Simba fans to pack National Stadium arena on the Simba Day to see what their players have installed for them. Simba is the only home team this season to ink players from outside the continent as they want to rebuild their squad ahead of the Mainland Premier League and CAF Champions League clashes. The annual eventful Simba Day is held on August 8th at the 60,000 capacity National Stadium in Dar es Salaam which among other things, the club parades all squad members to their supporters ahead of the approaching season plus playing a friendly international match. However, the day will proceed their traditional rival’s Young Africans ‘Wiki ya Mwananchi’ event set at the venue on August 4th which will also be used as a platform to introduce the team’s players to their fans.