HIGH Court’s Commercial Division has dismissed with costs a suit by a clearing agent company— Maxima Clearing and Forwarding Limited—demanding about 6bn/- as damages from the National Microfinance Bank (NMB). Judge Amir Mruma ruled in favour of the bank, the defendant, after holding in his finding that it could not be true that the clearing and forwarding company, as the plaintiff, was not aware of the opening and operation of the two accounts at NMB. He noted from the witness statements that the plaintiff discovered the two bank accounts, which had been opened and were being operated in their company’s name. This was immediately after the accounts were opened in March 2016. The plaintiff wrote to the defendant to request for copies used to open the accounts immediately. While alleging not having any access to the accounts whatsoever, yet they claimed 3, 619,859,579.12 and 1,091,717.62 US dollars were deposited by their customers in the accounts. The purported customers and nature of the business, which the plaintiff did with the customers and the source of these huge deposits into the two accounts, were not disclosed to the court, though known to the plaintiffs to be payments from their customers. “The only conclusion that can be drawn from the plaintiff’s pleadings and evidence that she learnt about the opening of the two accounts by unknown persons, her knowledge that some money had been deposited (and later) withdrawn is that the accounts were operated with her knowledge,” the judge argued. Accordingly in terms of Section 48(1) of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act, he said, it was correct and proper for the defendant to refuse to divulge information about the accounts, which the plaintiff had disowned, thus it goes without saying that the issue of being negligent on the bank could not arise. “Having found as a matter of fact that the accounts did not belong to the plaintiff, it goes without saying that the plaintiff didn’t suffer any damages for anything done in those accounts. I find no basis for awarding damages. In summary, therefore, the plaintiff’s case is dismissed with costs,” he declared. The plaintiff a limited liability company had sued the defendant bank for recovery of 3, 619,859,579.12 and 1,091,717.62 US dollars being special damages for loss suffered by her due to the defendant’s negligence. It was claimed that the defendant bank had also failed to use reasonable skills, care and diligence in opening and operating two bank accounts in the name of the plaintiff without her authority. The plaintiff further pushed for payments of general damages, interests and costs of the suit. In an undisclosed date, the plaintiff learnt that unknown persons had opened the local currency and US dollar accounts with the bank in the name of their company without the consent and knowledge of their Board of Directors. On February 10, 2017 they wrote to the defendants, requesting documents that were used to open the accounts so that they could take action to remedy the situation. The letter was accompanied with a search report from Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA). The report showed the shareholders, Secretary and Directors of the plaintiff’s company. The defendant responded to the letter on February 22, 2017 stating that she couldn’t supply the requested information although the accounts were in the name of the plaintiff’s company. In the letter, the bank responded that the Board of Directors was not entitled to share information about the account because, according to the banking practices, only the signatories were privileged to get information relating to the accounts. It was the plaintiff’s case that on June 20, 2017 the amount of money that was meant to be paid to her by its customers was paid into the two accounts. The amount alleged to be paid to the accounts were 3, 619,859,579.12 and 1,091,717.62 US dollars, which the plaintiff was claiming. The plaintiff averred that there was fraud and the success of the fraudulent transactions was caused by the defendant’s negligence in opening the accounts in the name of the plaintiff without complying with the good banking practices