TEN Kenyans and two Tanzanians have lost their 6bn/- claim against the Tanzanian government before the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights. The court refused to Tanzania to pay over 6bn/-as compensation to the 12 claimants, some of whom were imprisoned 30 years by local courts over armed robbery. Tanzania triumphed in three out of nine judgments that the continental court delivered here yesterday, in some applications for reparations that the 12 applicants filed over alleged violation of their rights to fair hearing by the East African nation. The applicants include five Kenyan convicts— Wilfred Nganyi, Jimmy Njoroge, Patrick Muriithii, Gabriel Kariuki and Simon Kiambuthi. Their acquitted accomplices are Michael Wathiko, Boniface Mburu, David Mburu, Peter Mburu and Simon Kariuki. The Tanzanians were Alex Thomas and Mohamed Abubakar. The applicants had accused Tanzania, as respondent state, of having violated some Articles under the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights, pressing for compensation of material loss of income and life plan as well as costs incurred in their trial proceedings. They had also asked for compensation of moral damages to indirect victims, including their wives, mothers, sons, sisters and brothers. The applicants also sought for restoration of their liberty, with the court ordering the respondent state to release them from prisons. The convicted Kenyans had requested for compensation of 363,889 US dollars each while the released sought for 15,000 US dollars, annually. Thomas requested the court order for his government to pay 5,890 US dollars while Abubakar had claimed 652,700 US dollars. However, the Solicitor General Dr Clement Mashamba and Principal State Attorneys Sara Mwipopo, Alicia Mbuya and Grayson Mweyunge who stood for Attorney General of the respondent, described the claims as baseless, misconceived and untenable, pleading for their dismissal. The court unanimously refused to grant the applicants’ prayers for release from prisons and on the material loss of income and life plan for lack of proof, but awarded minimal amounts on other aspects, including compensation to indirect victims. For the Kenyans, the court ruled, “Claims for material damage to convicted applicants are not justified and are therefore dismissed. With respect to those acquitted, the court notes that the acquittal was based on lack of evidence.” The court argued that the 30-month delay and 14 days of their trial unnecessarily caused some loss, which must be remedied. The justices held that the applicants suffered for initial delay from the commencement of the trial. It was noted further that for those whose proceedings were still pending have suffered additional loss. Under the circumstances, the court granted 3,000 US dollars to the applicants, who were acquitted, including the representatives of the deceased and 4,000 USD for whose proceedings are still pending. For Thomas, the court noted that he failed to establish the link between the violations established in the judgment on merits and material loss which he claims he suffered. Moreover, he neither elaborated on his occupation nor provided evidence on his earnings before his arrest. The court also held that the applicant has not justified his claim for 5,890 US dollars for material prejudice resulting from loss of income and life plan. “In line of this consideration, the prayer on material damages is dismissed,” the justices declared. The court noted that at the conclusion of his trial there was no provision of legal aid, which caused him anguish and despair due to unfairness. In general considerations and based on discretion, the court, awarded the applicant 2m/-. The court also awarded 1.5m/- compensation for the applicant’s mother and 1m/- for each of the three siblings— sisters and brother— as indirect victims who suffered emotional anguish and their social plight deteriorated due to the applicant’s imprisonment. For Abubakar who had claimed being a successful businessman before arrest, the court found his claims unjustified and liable for dismissal. The court awarded his wife and son 15m/- and 1m/-, respectively, as indirect victims. The court ordered the respondent state to pay the granted amount tax free effectively six months from the date of the verdict notification or the amount will attract interest on the Bank of Tanzania rate throughout the delay period. The court also ordered publication of the judgments on merits and that of reparations in the website of the Judiciary and Ministry of Legal and Constitutional Affairs, which shall remain accessible at least for one year from the date of publication.