TTCL Corporation said there have been high compliance of public servants and other citizens to acquire and use TTCL Sim cards following a call from President John Magufuli to support the state owned telcom. The state enterprise said at Dar es Salaam yesterday at the 43rd Dar es Salaam International Trade Fair (DITF) yesterday that since the President call some two months ago they have registered 215,000 new Sim-card users. TTCL Corporation Public Relations Manager Nicodemus Mushi said there has been a positive response to the initiative. “There has been a big turnout of public servants and other citizens for which in just few days since the president request a total of 215,000 new Sim card registrations have been recorded,” he said. TTCL Corporation scooped an award as first winner as the best exhibitor in the category of telecom services operators in the ongoing 43rd DITF taking place along Kilwa road in Dar es Salaam. He said the motivation is big throughout the country from the district to the regional level for both civil servants and other citizens to acquire TTCL Sim cards. “TTCL Corporation thank all Tanzanians and government officials for responding positively to the president request to use TTCL Sim cards,” he said noting that they are now witnessing more Sim cards taken, collections from sale of airtime rising and use of T-Pesa also going up. As an incentive to all employees both public and private, TTCL has prepared ‘watumishi pack’ a special bundle to give them opportunity to have affordable communication. He said apart from making profit, TTCL is giving priority to bring closer affordable, quality and secure telecom services to both rural and urban people so that they can use of boosting their economic activities. “Yes we want to make profit but as a state owned telecom company, our priority is to ensure that our services reach all Tanzanians regardless of their income level,” he added. He said already greater part of the country is connected to 4G networks. Some of the regions are Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Iringa, Dodoma, Arusha, Mwanza, Coast, Tanga, Kilimanjaro, Morogoro, Zanzibar and Pemba.