THE Tanzanian business community should get ready for more trade opportunities in the Southern African Development Community (SADC), particularly trading in cashew nuts, iron and livestock products in the regional market. This comes in the wake of government plans to find markets of the products in the SADC. So far, the country performs better in selling tea, coffee, cotton, roofing tiles, cement and gold. The Acting Director of Industries Department in the Ministry of Industries and Trade, Mr Abdul Marwa, has told the ‘Daily News’ that recent data shows that last year, Tanzania sold in the SADC market, products valued at USD 999.34 million compared to USD 877.8 million in the previous one. Mr Marwa was speaking during a presentation during a recent seminar for journalists in Morogoro Region. The country’s latest sale in the SADC market is two times the sale in the East African market. Statistics indicate that Tanzania sold to fellow SADC member countries goods worth USD 448.5 million in the last year, an increase from USD 312.5 million in the previous one. “The country has focused on investing more in agricultural products to sell in SADC countries which comprises 16 members,” he stated. The Heads of State summit of the member countries would be held in Dar es Salaam next month, amid high expectations from citizens from those countries. It comes at a time when Tanzania will assume the chairmanship of the regional bloc for the next one year. The SADC Heads of State summit will be preceded by the industrialisation exhibition week in the city from August 5 to 9. Through this exhibition, Tanzanian manufacturers will have opportunities to showcase their products to other SADC member states, putting them in a better chance to yield market opportunities in the bloc. The industrialisation week is part of the SADC industrialisation strategy set for implementation between 2015-2063 which intends to strengthen cooperation and competition in the manufacturing sector and trade among the member states. Mr Marwa explained that the exhibition was useful to Tanzanian manufacturers because it would make them gain experience from those in other countries on how to add more value to their products, to make them more competitive. He called on local industrialists to turn up in big number to showcase their products for expanding their business network in the regional bloc.