THE government has disclosed plans to rebrand the National Ranching Company Limited (NARCO) to strengthen operations create more employment opportunities and provide dividend to the government. The plans target to transform NARCO and create an efficient and vibrant commercial entity that will contribute positively to the commercial development of the country’s livestock industry. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Prof Elisante Ole Gabriel said this when he addressed members of media in Dar es Salaam over the weekend during NARCO Board meeting. “The government through the ministry of Livestock and fisheries continues to search to get more operating capital to enhance NARCO to carry out its obligations whereby it will seek soft loans and grants from financial institutions and donors,” said Prof Gabriel. Prof Gabriel further added that NARCO owns huge land assets all over the country which is estimated to reach 600,000 hectors including various farming ranches and grassed plots which he said would be used as resources to secure loans. Prof Ole Gabriel mentioned another approach would be to enhance the company resume full operation as it collects outstanding debts owed by its customers amounting to 7.59bn/- . He cautioned loan defaulters to communicate with board and management to submit plans to repay their debts. “Currently NARCO has outstanding debts valued Tanzanian shillings 7.59 billion and this is a lot of money owed by several customers originating from unpaid service levies and others” he explained. Prof Gabriel noted that, whilst NARCO undergoes all these strategies, it would also reshape and strengthen its human capital resource to ensure the company is fully supported by qualified manpower that can perform the task and deliver as per government plans. Also Prof Gabriel noted that “NARCO owns 15,000 relevant breed of cattle at its farms or ranches but it is government intention to increase it to 30,000 by this financial year. NARCO’s Board Chairman Mr Paul Kimiti thanked, President Dr John Pombe Magufuli for appointing high ranked ministerial executives including Minister, Permanent Secretary and also Board Chairman who know the objective of government intention to improve the livestock sector in the country. Mr Kimiti assured the government that NARCO has qualified personnel who own technical knowledge and experience to transform the ranching company. He asked the Permanent Secretary and the whole ministry to continue giving support to NARCO. In May this year Minister for Livestock and Fisheries Mr Luhaga Mpina told members of parliament when he was tabling his ministerial budget in Dodoma about government’s ambitious plan to transform NARCO.