MAINLAND champions Simba have concluded a yearlong loan deal for striker Deo Kanda from Congolese side TP Mazembe. Simba released photos of the 29-year old striker penning a deal in front of the club’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Crescentius Magori The Msimbazi Street club said in its statement they believe with vast experience, the pacy attacker will bring much impetus and attacking options in the Mainland Premier League, Azam Sports Federation Cup and CAF Champions League. Born in Matadi, Kanda began playing youth football for Jack Trésor FC. He signed his first professional contract with Kinshasa side DC Motema Pembe. He moved to local rivals TP Mazembe in 2009, where he would play in the 2009 FIFA Club World Cup and the 2010 FIFA Club World Cup, coming on as a substitute in the final where they lost 3-0 to Internazionale. Kanda scored the decisive goal as TP Mazembe won the 2010 CAF Champions League title. In April 2013, he had a trial with Egyptian giant Al Ahly, but was eventually not signed. He joined Moroccan side Raja Casablanca, signing a three-year deal in July 2013. The attacker has appeared for the senior DR Congo national football team in two 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifying matches. Kanda becomes the seventh new signing for Simba this season. He is also the fifth newly signed foreign player by Simba So far, the Reds have signed three Brazilian players – defender, Tairone Santos da Silva from Brazil’s Serie D side Atletico Cearense FC, defender Gerson Fraga Vieira from India Top Division side ATK and striker Wilker Henrique da Silva from Bragantino FC, a Serie D side in Brazil. Another newly foreign arrival is Sudanese midfielder, Sharaf Eldin Shiboub Ali Abdalrahman from Al Hilal. New local players who have joined Simba are goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya from young Africans, central defender Kennedy Wilson Juma from Singida United and attacker Miraji Athumani. Simba have also renewed contracts with several key players including first choice goalkeeper, Aishi Manula, defenders Erasto Nyoni, Shomari Kapombe, skipper John Bocco and his assistant Mohammed Hussein. Others are Zambian midfielder Clatous Chama, Jonas Mkude, Ugandan born Rwandese striker, Meddie Kagere and Ivory Coast defender Pascal Wawa. With new arrivals, Simba has also released several players including Rwandese creative midfielder Haruna Niyonzima, who confirmed last Thursday that he will not be part of the club next season. Ghanaian holding midfielder, James Kotei has also left the club and joined South Africa giants Kaizer Chiefs. It is reported that Kotei and Niyonzima were among foreign players, whom the technical bench under Belgian trainer Patrick Aussems recommended not to extend their contracts.