THE presence of limited sources for accurate and reliable public health information has been a challenge that at times contributed to causing misunderstandings in the general public, especially when there is a disease outbreak. This is one of the reasons that made the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children to establish the Tanzania Public Health Bulletin (TPHB). The TPHB was launched by the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu early this month in Dodoma City. According to the minister, the goal of the TPHB is to communicate timely, reliable, authoritative, accurate, objective and useful public health information that will minimize the impact of public health threats. The information published in TPHB include progress and achievements made in public health, policy recommendations, guidelines, standard operating procedures. Reports of outbreak investigations, disease surveillance and results from scientific research work that has impact to the public. Policy makers, health professionals, academicians, researchers and the media in order to raise public awareness on critical health information. The bulletin also aims at addressing misconceptions and myths surrounding diseases transmission and their management by relaying accurate scientific based information. “In other words, the TPHB will always carry forward the Government’s key messages to the community and if well understood and applied, it will assist the Government’s efforts in saving the lives of Tanzanians against diseases and illnesses,” the minister said. Speaking to journalists, the Deputy TPHB’s Editor in Chief, Dr Julius Massaga said the TPHB is funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the CDC Foundation of the United States. The Bulletin will be published quarterly in a year, but information on urgent health threats will be reviewed, edited, cleared and published electronically within 12 hours as an early release (preprint). In order to ensure accuracy, relevance and authenticity of the information, all articles will be reviewed and vetted by a Committee chaired by the Chief Medical Officer (CMO). The articles will be published in English language with a summary in Kiswahili and will be available free of charge. There will neither be a subscription fee nor authors’ charge. According to Dr Massaga the CDC and CDC Foundation are collaborating with the Ministry of Health to implement the Data Impact Programme (DIP), component of the Bloomberg Philanthropies’ Data for Health Initiative (BD4HI), within Tanzania. He said the bulletin launched by the Minister on July 1 in Dodoma City during a workshop of Medical Officers In- Charge of the Regional Referral Hospitals was also attended by Regional Medical Officers, Hospital Secretaries as well as Regional Health Management Information System (HMIS/ MTUHA), Coordinators. “The content of articles in the bulletin must be thoroughly scrutinized scientifically and cleared for publication by the Government, to ensure alignment with the Government’s plans and policies,” he said. He further added that, as an important source of public health information for the Ministry, the evidence shared in the bulletin will be educative and geared towards minimizing health threats in order to improve community’s social wellbeing and improve the visibility of the Ministry. “The TPHB will be a voice of the Government. It will be an authoritative source of information for the MOHCDGEC using simple and easy to understand language for all its various audiences,” Dr Massaga explained. He said through the regular publications and multiple distribution channels, including a dedicated website, information will be accessible and continually utilized and referenced. As a result, it will reduce public health worries exacerbated by distortion of information. “It will also clearly distinguish between what is known and what is merely suspected information as the journal will be publishing and disseminating vetted, timely, reliable, authoritative, accurate, objective and useful health information,” he said. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Dr Zainab Chaula said it was a great honour for the ministry to have the new online publication, which will be under the Chief Medical Officer. She said that there is evidence to suggest that the impact of every public health threat can be reduced if the political and health specialists know its scope and cause. “Health threats can now be identified quantified and mitigated in weeks rather than years if accurate information reaches policy makers, the public, and health professionals who can act to prevent the spread of disease and limit the impact of natural disasters,” she said. She further noted that, getting that accurate information to those who need it is among the responsibilities of the MOHCDGEC. It can use highly regarded and user-friendly communication means such the Tanzania Public Health Bulletin (TPHB), to rapidly disseminate critical public health information to policy makers and other health stakeholders. Dr Chaula further said TPHB would help to promote and integrate national public health establishments with the international scientific community, provide recognition for public health workers at the peripheral as well as at national levels by publishing their work. “We strongly believe that this bulletin will stimulate the interest of the press and the public in public health by publishing authoritative yet understandable reports on interesting and important public health topics. She said the ministry is requesting its staff and researchers to use this new communication channel to inform the public of new developments. The Ministry also invites health stakeholders to make use of the published educative information to minimize public health threats and improve the health and social wellbeing of Tanzanians. On his part Dr Paul Kazyoba, the Director for Research Coordination and Promotion of the National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), commented that the institute will use the Bulletin as a platform to publish the results of various health researches they have been conducting with direct public health impact. He said they have various projects targeting to improve the country’s health sector, so through the Journal they will be able to share the implementations of the projects and let both the local and foreign stakeholders of health sector to contribute their support. “The TPHB has been established in the right time when the Government through its separate institutions of health is in the efforts of improving the provision of health services and control of diseases. Through the TPHB the public will understand better what is going on in the health sector,” he said. As a regularly published scientific periodical, it forms part of the permanent records accessible to researchers and the public around the world. The TPHB will be collating articles from various sources within the Ministry; the bulletin will thus provide the public with a cross-section of important activities that the Ministry does in a single source of publication