VODACOM Tanzania Foundation partners with Girl Effect have launched “Tujibebe” a new digital brand targeting young entrepreneurs. Tujibebe “let’s lift ourselves up, together” set to unite young people through shared experiences and channel their entrepreneurialism. It is also about inspiring and supporting them to overcome life’s challenges together and realise their ambitions. Tujibebe, is a mobile-based brand which is focused on young people aged 14-19 with a specific focus on reaching adolescent girls. Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Board member Simon Shayo said he was pleased to see more players collaborating to promote gender equality and empower young people. “I would like to encourage more members of the private sector to be innovative in their areas of expertise and partner with civil society to create projects that empower communities’’, Mr Shayo said during the launch yesterday. Vodacom Tanzania and Trustee of Vodacom Tanzania Foundation Corporate Affairs Director, Rosalynn Mworia, said that mobile technology has the power to change the world. “The power of connectivity and technology will deliver content that will empower young people enabling them to maximize their potential,” Ms Mworia said. Tujibebe’s content will provide Tanzanian young people with access to information and resources they need to make positive choices about their futures - from finding skills building courses and setting up their own small business, to managing their personal finances. Girl Effect CEO, Jessica Posner Odede, remarked that the brand’s content has been designed to unite all young people, but with a focus on creating meaningful change for girls. “Y oung people often have a huge range of questions about their future - from the right skills to get a job, ways to safely make money or how to save for the future,” Ms Odede said. Attendees were able to engage with Tujibebe’s content and hear from some of Girl Effect’s Technology Enabled Girl Ambassadors (TEGAs), girl-researchers that have been central in uncovering authentic insights into Tanzanian girls’ lives.