TANZANIAN Leodegar Tenga is facing U ganda’s FA boss Moses Magogo for the Executive Committee post as the 41st ordinary assembly for the Confederation of African Football Association (CAF), takes place today in Cairo, Egypt. Tenga, the former Tanzania Football Federation boss and CECAFA President, faces the U gandan in a two-man race. Tenga was one of the finest players in Tanzania’s history, a respected administrator and representative, leading the Tanzanian Football Federation (TFF), as president since 2005. It’s been a successful second act for Tenga, who has worked hard on development projects and increased the level of football in Tanzania and East Africa. He had a spell as secretary general of the TFF between 1988 and 1990 and was a member of the National Sports Council from 1990-2002 and its vice-chairman from 2000 -2002. In 2007, he was elected to a fouryear term as chairman of the Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA), which is the organiser of the Senior Challenge Cup-the oldest tournament in Africa, the host continent for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Under his leadership, Tanzania climbed from 175th in the FIFA / C o c a - C o - la World Ranking at the end of 2004 to 93rd last summer and 108th in the run-up to South Africa 2010. The delegates from all the 54 CAF Member countries will converge at Aida ballroom in Cairo Marriot Hotel, Zamalek for the assembly where the election of the CAF Executive Committee members will be a key item on the agenda. Out of the six positions on the Executive body, three of them have the candidates unopposed and the other three will be up for polls. The East and Central Zone, Northern and Southern Zones have candidates vying for the slots. Unopposed: The other three candidates from the Western Zone A, Western Zone B and Central Zone are virtually un-opposed. Senegal’s Augustin Senghor is for the Western Zone A, Sita Sangare (Burkina Faso), is for Western Zone B and Central Africa Republic’s Patrice Edouard Ngaissona for Central zone.