LIKE a cat on a hot brick, local traders engaging in printing African attires (Kitenge and Khanga), at Kariakoo in Dar es Salaam feel frequent copycats are infringing into their rights, and hence appeal for government intervention. Appealing to the Minister of Trade, Mr Innocent Bashungwa and the Business and Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA), they said some of their brainchild ideas are hijacked by some shop owners who, because of the nature of the business they must rely on for printing. Instead flood the markets with their ideas without their authority. During the meeting, one of traders’ representatives, Ms Angela Msofe told the delegation that there was the malpractice practiced by some of manufacturers and distributors, capitalize on their “challenge of not owning the machines” to design their work clandestinely without approved clearance that is against the law. She explained that in their normal business deals, they have been placing orders with various manufactures to print their kitenge and khanga at a fee, but instead they are short-circuited in the market, and that is a criminal offence. “Most of the manufacturers have been printing our designs and distributing them in the same markets… this unacceptable tendency has been causing loss to us,” said Ms Msofe, adding that: “As traders, we have been coming up with different designs and layouts to be included in our products to keep pace with market taste, demands and preference, but manufactures have developed a tendency of stealing our ideas to take them to the markets. “We conducted an investigation and found that usually, when we submit our designs to them, they tell us to give them time for printing and related designs. But that is not the case because once we collect them back, we realize that already the same products are in the market with all our ideas and market taste.” In response, the Minister promised to work on their plea, despite the understanding that throughout the world, competitions are legalized in business. Unfortunately in Tanzania, traders especially small scale ones do not allow such a thing to exist with latest advancements in technologies, designs, and brands. “While Tanzania is walking towards a middle class economy, business people at Kariakoo think otherwise and fear competitions,” said the Minister. He informed them that challenges facing them were hinged on intellectual property protection knowledge as they spend substantial amount of capital to place orders in the market, without squeezing time to protect them. “This knowledge on protection intellectual property to traders seemed to have spread to a certain group and forced some to lag behind or quit. The creativity in Kitenge and khanga to traders is not known and therefore not protected,” added Mr Bashungwa. Seconding the minister’s idea, BRELA acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Emmanuel Kakwezi said that Kariakoo traders have not seen the importance of protecting their brands. He enlightened them to register their products with BRELA to become protected and get trademarks, because that would enable them have inscribed marks and names under the Trade and Service Marks Act, 1986. The exclusive right conferred to the owner of a business gives him/her exclusive