IN a layman’s language, an oath is simply a promise or a vow. It is an assurance statement that gives support to the principles of something and with that in mind, the recently appointed Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union and Environmental Affairs), George Simbachawene and the Nzega Urban MP, Mr Hussein Bashe, as Deputy Minister of Agriculture made vows to the nation. They have done it publicly and have showed us that an oath is a serious declaration indicating that their words are and will always be true. When an oath is broken it can be shattering. No wonder why the Gaelic Proverb takes oaths and promise seriously. It reads; there is no greater fraud than a promise or an oath not kept. On a similar tone, Richard Paul Evans’ wisdom is also relevant. It reads; broken vows are like broken mirrors. They leave those who held to them bleeding and staring at fractured images of themselves. Well, I may not be a legal adept but both my academic and faith inquisitiveness and inclination jogs my memory on the significance of an oath, a solemn promise, often invoking a divine witness, regarding one’s future action or behaviour. An oath is not a new agenda in our society. It is an old practice. Even the Congressional Record Daily Alta California 2 affirms; here is a history of oath-taking. Homer’s heroes swore; the gods swore; the Romans swore by their swords and their Caesars; the Egyptians by cats and onions; the East Indians by holding a cow by the tail. Why am I concerned by breaching of oaths? Well, it is because of its implications to our leaders and society. Most leaders take oaths. It may be administered at an inauguration, coronation, enthronement, or other ceremony connected with the taking up of office itself. Sometimes an oath is administered privately, but it means the same. That is why in some cases it is administered privately and then repeated during a public ceremony. In fact, when doing so, they, in most cases hold high the Holy Books of their faith. What this means is that a leader is declaring his oath in front of his God. If that person then speaks lies, as some are doing now and then, they must not only deal with their own guilty conscience but also make their God angry. I recall my university teacher telling us that during their ages, an oath was linked to religion or religious activities or rites. That is why an oath is considered to be judicium dei, where divine judgment awaits those who deign to lie. Sadly, our society, and especially our political leaders today are struggling with oath keeping. Whether it is administered from its assertor or promissory custom, I am personally concerned about the growing tendency of leaders treating with disrespect their oaths, a virtually universal custom which has been there since time in memorial. This is a serious issue and it is the big question. Why do people who make vows, promises, pledges, attestations, words of honour, or a guarantee, and in the blink of an eye, contravene, breach, or overstep them? Do they know that when one disobeys it, rebels against it or ignores it, he or she is making it difficult for fellow leaders to achieve a long-term value for the nation? Robert Bolt tells and warns; when a man or a woman takes an oath, he or she is holding his own self in his own hands. Like water. And if he opens his fingers then - he needn’t hope to find himself again. And Simone Weil, has this polite reminder for those holding public offices; there can be a true grandeur in any degree of submissiveness, because it springs from loyalty to the laws and to an oath, and not from baseness of soul. So, when one swears the oath in courts or at any other occasion, it is more than part of the procedure of a legal event. It should not be seen or taken as purely formalistic. Your oaths and promises mean everything, but after they are broken, sorry means nothing. Let us, as a nation, create a strong oath culture which will eventually create long-term value for our nation. Well, here is my guidance. People in leadership position, those holding public office will be honoured by the trust and confidence which wananchi placed on them. Leaders must keep their oaths, live their oath, be determined and accept to be guided by the purposes and principles of our current principled leadership which seeks to defend the values that unite us. It is much more critical to do so now because the nation is on an upward curve, riding a wave of optimism. Cheers! The author, Dr Alfred Sebahene, is Ag. Head of Department of Corruption Studies, Lecturer, Researcher, Consultant, Social and Public Life Ethics Analyst at St John’s University of Tanzania, Dodoma. Email address: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997