MORE than 20 hunting blocks will go under the hammer in a Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (TAWA) coordinated auction. The 26 blocks are located within Game Reserves, Game Controlled Areas and Open Areas, according to information published on TAWA’s website early this week. The auctioning which com-mences on June 10 this year will see bidders submit their applications online, a move which seeks to prevent corruption in the lucrative sector. According to TAWA, each interested company will be allowed a maximum of five blocks. For instance, to get a category I hunting block, a company or an individual will have to part ways with $5,000, while category II and III each costs $2,000 and $1,000 respectively. Through his twitter account, Tourism and Natural Resources Minister, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla expressed his delight over the move, saying it will curb the otherwise rampant corruption in the process of issuing hunting licences. “I am pleased to announce the first ever e-auctioning of hunting blocks in Tanzania, where we aim to curb corruption that was traditional in the industry, and increase revenues to the government. “The first auction shall involve 26 blocks, and is going to be web-based and global,” said the Minister. While addressing tourism stakeholders back in October 2017, Dr Kigwangalla stated that all hunting permits will be reapplied through auction. According to the minister, issuing the hunting permits through auction will make the exercise more transparent. According to the Wildlife Conservation Act Cap 283, no person shall be considered for allocation of a hunting block unless he has a company registered with the Registrar of Companies within the country, with the intention of engaging in hunting of animals. Another prerequisite of owning a hunting block requires a company to hire a director with at least five years’ experience in matters of conservation. According to TAWA, the tenure of ownership of each hunting block shall be five years, subject to an annual review of the hunting company performance. However, should the proposed review of the Wildlife Conservation Act number 5 of 2009 be approved by the Parliament, ownership will be extended to conform to the changes in the Act. Only successful applicants will be permitted to participate in e-auctioning of hunting blocks, which will remain open for a period of seven consecutive days, according to TAWA, where the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism will issue successful bidders with a hunting block allocation certificate.