THE National Urbanisation Roadmap, which will see the country improving all urban centres to meet the required international standards, is set for official launching in July 2019. Various stakeholders, including representatives from the government, research organisations, members of Civil Society Organisations and higher learning institutions, convened here yesterday to discuss the draft roadmap and propose the areas of improvement before its official launching. The validation workshop for the National Urbanisation Roadmap was coordinated by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF). Speaking at the workshop, ESRF Director of Strategic Research and Publications, Professor Fortunata Makene, said the purpose of the workshop was to discuss key elements of the Roadmap which had been prepared by Tanzania Urbanisation Laboratory (TULab), set to be launched in July this year. “According to her, urbanisation and urban planning was an important issue in many developing countries, including Tanzania. “Statistics tell us that the urban population of Tanzania is expected to reach 45 million in 2030, making Tanzania the sixth fastest urbanising country in the world and Dar es Salaam City with the second fastest population growth rate,’’ she said. Prof Makene added that statistics further indicate that the proportion of Tanzanians living in cities increased from 18.8 per cent in 1990 to 33.0 per cent in 2016 and that by the middle of this century, figures of population project that Dar es Salaam will become a mega city of 10 million people before 2035. She said that in September, 2017, the government, ESRF and several organisations united under Coalition for Urban Transitions (CUT) established TULab with an aim of supporting the government in undertaking research and develop a National Urbanisation Policy and Strategy. “TULab is a community of experts bringing together urban specialists from government, CSOs and business community for discussion and analysis of the day-to-day reality of urbanisation in Tanzania as a means of grounding future policy and programming,’’ she said. Speaking at the workshop, the Commissioner for Financial Sector Policy in the ministry of Finance and Planning who represented the Deputy Permanent Secretary, said urbanisation was reflected in the National Five Year Development Plan 2016/17-2020/21. He said the roadmap was thus grounded on local knowledge and complemented with useful global experiences that aim at ensuring that the government was not repeating the usual mistakes in the quest to ensure that Tanzania’s urbanisation process catalyzes rather than hinders development aspirations, prospects and efforts.