CELEBRATORY mood, pomp and fanfare yesterday gripped the Loftus Versfeld Stadium in the Arcadia suburb of Pretoria, Gauteng Province of South Africa, as people from all walks of life converged to be part of the country’s history in witnessing the swearing-in of the 5th President, Cyril Ramaphosa. (pictured) The newly sworn-in President, in his speech, thanked all Heads of State and representatives of countries present at the event for their contribution to the liberation of South Africa and took time to personally greet them. Among the dignitaries, President Ramaphosa greeted and briefly exchanged words of wisdom with Tanzanian President John Magufuli. President Ramaphosa was later seen exchanging a light moment with former President Jakaya Kikwete, who accompanied the Head of State to the inauguration ceremony. Besides Dr Kikwete, other leaders from Tanzania, who attended the event were Deputy Vice Chairman of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Philip Mangula and Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi. In his address, President Ramaphosa, was quick to reaffirm South Africa’s determination to work with other countries across the continent to realise the African Union’s vision of Agenda 2063. The South Africa President also pledged to work in close collaboration to forge a free trade area that stretches from Cape Town to Cairo, bringing growth and opportunity to all African countries. “As we make this bold declaration, we are aware of the depth of the challenges we must confront. We are not aware of the debilitating legacy of our past, nor do the many difficulties of the present. To achieve the South Africa we want will demand an extraordinary feat of human endeavour,” said Mr Ramaphosa. He cited some of the problems facing the country as poverty, corruption and unemployment and pleaded his commitment to overcoming them. He declared his determination to end poverty in South Africa, noting that when the country would gather to celebrate the 50th year freedom there would no longer be any person unable to meet their basic needs. “There should be no child, who goes hungry. Every school child will be able to read and every person, who wants to work will have a reasonable opportunity to find employment. To achieve the South Africa they want, he pointed out, there was a need to demand an extraordinary feat of human endeavour. In front of a packed Loftus Versfeld Stadium, President Ramaphosa took the oath of office before the Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. Former South African leaders were also spotted at the ground, including former Presidents Kgalema Motlanthe, FW de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki. The former Heads of State from the African continent were among about 30,000 people, who graced the ceremony. Some of the African leaders, who attended the inauguration ceremony, include Rwandan President Paul Kagame, President Kaguta Museveni (Uganda) and Emmerson Mnangagwa (Zimbabwe), among others. The event was featured by a fly-past, with parachutists jumping into the stadium and a 21-gun salute, while the national anthem played. Among others include DA leader Mmusi Maimane, EFF leader Julius Malema, former public protector Thuli Madonsela, singer PJ Powers, former ANC NEC member Tokyo Sexwale, Mandla Mandela and Cosatu president Zingiswa Losi. Following President Ramaphosa’s inauguration, the focus will now shift to his new Cabinet. The current Cabinet will continue functioning until he appoints new ministers and deputies. He is expected to announce his highly anticipated Cabinet today. It is anticipated that there will be fewer portfolios. Some ministries may be scrapped, and others could be merged, while most deputies will be done away with. While, deputy ministers are not members of the Cabinet, they will also be revealed, when the new Cabinet is announced as they are required to assist ministers in the discharge of their duties.