AS part of Tanzania’s efforts to attain an industrial-based economy status, stakeholders have called for the intensification of practical-oriented studies in science subjects, towards striking a balance between quality and quantity of the required engineers, technicians and artisans. The call was made over the weekend in Dar es Salaam during the commemoration of 2019 Engineering Technicians Day, organised by Engineers Registration Board (ERB). They stressed that practice will highly contribute to acquisition of the required experts’ ratio as per the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which is 1:5:25, meaning that a single engineer should be served by five technicians and 25 artisans. Currently, the country has only 1,112 registered technicians against 25, 263 engineers, according to them, stressing that students should spend more time in practicals than theoretical studies. This should involve their full participation in big projects, including the on-going Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), Stiegler’s Gorge as well as construction of flyovers and bridges. The Presenter from the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE), Mr Gemma Modu, said most of the required interventions that are necessary for the transformation of the economy include technology-based, adequate and competent engineers, technicians and artisans in various formal and informal sectors. “The situation of the workforce in Tanzania is that most graduates lack in-depth knowledge and skills of present and emerging technologies as well as employability/life skills. There is also a need for more capacity building, hence, investing in people, their knowledge and skills, which is a key for the success of sustainable national socio-economic development,” he said. He pointed out that lack of formal mechanisms for identifying and projecting critical skills required in the corresponding sector, inadequate training facilities as well as limited linkages with industries were among the barriers towards availability of adequate work-force. On his part, Engineer Gwakisa Gallen from Tansheq Company Limited explained that, an achieving industrialbased economy depended also on entrepreneurship and innovation. He said that both Intracorporate and individual entrepreneurship had an immense contribution towards attaining in an industrial economy since it allowed innovation and gave employees freedom to do things beyond their limitations. “Innovation limits movement of employees from one organisation to another. It is an incubator for future entrepreneurs. Thus, build your team as entrepreneurship is not a solo activity. Share credit widely and ask for advice before you ask for resources,” he said