ENERGY Minister Dr Medard Kalemani has directed the arrest of OK Contractor over incompletion of work to supply electricity under Rural Energy Agency (REA) in Kibwegere Village in Mpwapwa District in Dodoma Region. He gave the directive here on Tuesday after an impromptu visit to the project site, and noting that no work related to the project was underway there. Visibly upset, Dr Kalemani noted that the government was spending a lot of money to undertake projects geared at enhancing the welfare of the people. “I am directing the authorities here to ensure that the contractor is arrested. The government spends a lot of money to carry out such projects,” said the minister during his ongoing tour focused on electricity supply projects in rural areas under the REA III programme. The minister also directed all contractors to complete electricity supply projects in Dodoma Region by December this year. Dr Kalemani stressed that contractors should not skip any village in the power supply drive and that Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited should open offices in villages supplied with electricity, to facilitate connections to customers. Last weekend, the energy minister directed TANESCO to ensure all households in peripheral areas of the country’s cities to get electricity connection by June this year. He issued the directive after visiting peripheral areas of Dodoma City, saying that households without electricity service should start wiring their houses as part of preparations. “The government wants peripheral areas to get connected to electricity service by June this year,” said Dr Kalemani during his visit to inspect electricity infrastructure at Ntyuka area in Dodoma City. The Minister, who was accompanied by TANESCO Managing Director Dr Tito Mwinuka and top officials from Tanesco Dodoma Regional Office, visited Ntyuka and Nkonze areas in Dodoma City. Dr Kalemani observed that electricity service was vital for speeding up social and economic development and that all households without electricity service should