THE government has assured dairy farmers in the country that there will ever be a conducive environment for them to do business. Speaking here recently, Deputy Director for Business Environment in Prime Minister’s Office, Mr Christopher Mramba, said the government was ready to see into it that the dairy sector benefits its traders and sell their dairy without problems. He said to begin with, the government had already removed unnecessary obstacles and bureaucracies which discourage the dairy farmers in the markets. “Our intention is to see dairy farmers doing business without any restrictions, wherever they are,” added Mr Mramba, while presiding over a two-day workshop for the dairy farmers held here. He further noted that the government would wish to see the farmers complying with regulations that govern the country’s dairy industry and be educated on whatever was not clear to them. During the workshop, processors and breeders of dairy products tipped on vast opportunities available in the sector, which they seem not to be aware of. Despite the rapid increase in the number of small-scale milk producers and milk demand in the country, market strategies for them to tap are still not fully exploited. Unlike the beef marketing system flourishing in the country and slaughterhouses increasing as well as butcheries in urban and rural areas, milk from the farmers is still not getting a lot of focus. He said the dairy industry in Tanzania is among the growing sectors, but showing very little contribution to the economy growth of the country. Available data indicate that Tanzania ranks third in the East Africa region in milk consumption with per capita consumption of 47 litres per person a year. The country is behind its neighbours like Kenya and Uganda, which consume it at an average of 100 and 80 litres per year respectively. Tanzania also falls short in the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) requirement which recommends a person to drink 200 litres of milk every year.