FIVE local organisations have signed deal with the Switzerland Embassy in Tanzania, in which the European nation will provide 170m/- grant to support arts and culture. The deal was signed in Dar es Salaam yesterday, in an effort of contributing to a diverse and inclusive arts and culture sector in Tanzania. ‘My trash, my treasure’ is the theme for this year’s Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) cultural call for proposals that aim at encouraging environmental consciousness through art. The theme calls for everyone to view waste differently, as some waste materials may still be of value if they are repurposed, reused, or recycled, said the Ambassador of Switzerland to Tanzania Florence Tinguely Mattli. “The objective of the initiative is to reflect through arts on our behavior and responsibility as consumers and citizens on how to use, consume and dispose waste and the impact of this can have on nature,” she remarked. She mentioned the five grant recipients for this year’s programmes as National Museum of Tanzania (National Museum and the House of Culture), Culture and Development East Africa (CDEA), Chuma Art Workshop, Alama Art and Media Production, and 14+ Artists. She explained that, “The organisations and groups will use various art mediums including visual, performing, animation and media arts, covering various regions with a national outreach.” The National Museum and the House of Culture Director General, Achiles Bufure said that the project aims to bring awareness to every citizen so that people can understand that waste can be artistically used and upgraded to something useful. “Together with the aim of reducing waste products, such projects will encourage people to use their artistic talents to perceive waste in a more productive and useful angle. This is why our project is themed ‘taka Dili’, and through these art works we can create awareness and opportunities to people,” he commented. The President of Tanzania Federation of Crafts and Arts Adrian Nyangamale has congratulated the ambassador who has been using arts and culture in combating problems in the society. He explained that former projects with the embassy included combating corruption and eradicating early pregnancies. “I urge the organisations and groups that have received the grants to use them according to the purpose they are agreed for; and they should be used as a stepping stone to coordinate, encourage and involve other artists to participate in such opportunities,” he remarked.