NATIONAL Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai (pictured) has suspended Tanzania’s representative and First Vice-President of the Pan-African Parliament (PAP) Stephen Masele over alleged misconduct. Mr Ndugai has thus recalled Mr Masele from the continental assembly, which is based in Midrand, South Africa. The recalled MP is also a former member of Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) in Genève Switzerland Urban lawmaker is now required to appear before the Parliamentary Privileges, Ethics and Powers Committee as well as Ethics Committee of his Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party, Mr Ndugai told the house here yesterday. “Mr Masele has exhibited high level of indiscipline, which tarnishes the image of this august house. He went further and caused strains between pillars of the state. I wrote and asked him to come back home since last Monday but he has refused,” Mr Ndugai, who is also Kongwa MP, explained. The speaker said he had as well written to PAP President, informing him of the decision by the Tanzanian parliament to suspend representation of Mr Masele, pending his appearance before the ethics committee in Tanzania. “When I wrote to him (Masele) he responded, suggesting that he had received separate instructions from the prime minister to disregard my directive. This is not true, he should come back home and respond to the allegations,” Mr Ndugai stressed. Mr Masele was elected First Vice-President of PAP in May, last year, while Handeni Rural MP Mboni Mhita (CCM) was elected President of the youth caucus of PAP for three years. Meanwhile, Speaker Ndugai informed the house that his office has received audited financial reports for the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT) for financial year ending June 30, 2018. According to Mr Ndugai, the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has appointed E.K Mangesho and Company Limited to conduct audit for the office, which the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) Professor Mussa Assad heads. “Every public institution is subjected to audit of its financial statements, E.K Mangesho has submitted the report to me and I have submitted it to PAC for analysis, the parliamentary committee will thereafter submit its report to me,” he explained. While NAOT conducts financial audits for all public entities and institutions where the government is the majority shareholder, PAC appoints external auditors to audit NAOT.