AFTER a long wait finally the day has come for Young Africans members to elect new leaders, who will be in charge of one of the oldest clubs in the country for the next four years. The General Election will be held at the Police Officers’ Mess, Oysterbay in Dar es Salaam, where members from all over the country are expected to turn out in huge numbers, to utilize their democratic rights and pick the leaders they want. It will be a huge task for there will be elected leaders to rescue the club from the current financial tatters to stability. The election will be held after being postponed for over five times due to various reasons. Former national team, Taifa Stars coach Mshindo Msolla and former club General Secretary Jonas Tiboroha are the front runners for the Chairman post after two other candidates -- Mbaraka Igangula and Elias Mwanjala decided to pull out from the contest at the eleventh hour. Winner of the chairman post will step in the shoes of the former club boss cum sponsor, Yusuf Manji, who stepped down. Another tight battle will be for the post of the Vice – Chairman, which will be contested for by five candidates including the former General Secretary of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Fredrick Mwakalebela and Ileje Member of Parliament Janet Mbene. Other contestants for the post are Salum Chota, Yono Kavela and Tito Osoro, who will all be looking for votes from the club members to succeed Clement Sanga. The members will also have the duty to elect Members of the Executive Committee at the club, which has attracted a good number of candidates. Candidates cleared to contest for the posts of Executive Committee Membership are Said Khimji, Hassan Hussein, Dominick Albinus, Hamad Islam, Seif Makosa, Leonard Marango, Bahati Mwaseba, Suma Mwaitenda and Haruna Batenga. The election committees axed several candidates including Siza Lyimo, Seko Kingo, Cyprian Musiba, Nassoro Matuzya, Abdallah Chikawe, Hussein Nyika, Rodgers Gumbo, Said Omar, Palina Conrad, Mkumbo Mkoma and Seif Seif. The previous Executive Committee was formed by Hussein Nyika, Thobias Lingalanga, Samwel Lukumay, Siza Lyimo, Elias Mwanjala and Palina Conrad who resigned from their posts and some of them decided to vie for this election but almost all of them have been disqualified for various reason. Campaigns for all candidates officially closed yesterday and today the club members will decide which candidates policies have attracted them.