THE population of Hippopotamus in Mara River in Mara Region is under threat as a result of rise in illegal hunting targeting the mammal for bush meat. That was said yesterday by Serengeti National Park Northern Zone Conservation Officer, Mr Lameck Matungwa in an interview with the ‘Daily News’ on why it is high time for the residents to refrain from the habit. Last month alone four hippopotamus were killed in the river, but the number could be higher than that because some cases go unreported. He said the residents of Serengeti and Tarime Districts prefer to hunt the hippos, whenever the river’s waters decrease and expose them in their hideouts. “Once the level of water goes low, people can easily spot the hippos. Some also get out of the river to look for pasture and that is where they are caged and killed,” Mr Matungwa added. He further said that when other wildebeest migrate from other parts of Serengeti- Mara ecosystem to the river, the poachers tend to chance on the hippopotamus and kill them, because killing does not require a lot of effort like chase the other fast running animals. He mentioned villages as Merenga and Machochwe in Serengeti District and Gibasso, Nyabirongo as well as Karakatonga in Tarime District as the areas, whose residents kill the mammals. “We have noticed that some women in these villages are selling hippopotamus bush meat,” pointed out Mr Matungwa. However, he noted that several arrests had been made in connection with the illegal poaching, but still the animals are under threat. “We are now intensifying our patrols by involving village governments,” added the Conservation Officer, while warning that anyone who would be caught hunting the hippopotamus in the river will be arrested and taken to court. “We want the local communities living around Mara River to realize that hippopotamus are natural resources and they are important part of Mara River ecosystem. They should stop killing them,” added Mr Matungwa. Mara River is a trans-boundary river which runs through Masai Mara Game Reserves in Kenya and Serengeti National Park (SENAPA) in Tanzania, before emptying its contents into Lake Victoria on the Tanzanian side. Recently, Kenyan media reported that Mara River tributaries on its side are drying up and blamed sand harvesters and people cutting trees for the havoc. Reached for a comment, the Lake Victoria Basin Water body in Musoma Office confirmed to the ‘Daily News,’ that the level of the Mara River waters on the Tanzanian side, has somehow increased following the ongoing rains. Besides, having significant contribution on conservation of the Serengeti- Masai Mara ecosystem, the Mara River basin also supports livelihood of about 1.1 million people living in Tanzania and Kenya close to it. 