LA LIGA’s Sevilla FC are set to play Simba Sports Club in Dares Salaam, a match that will go into history as Sevilla’s first match in Tanzania. A press statement issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday said the players are set to jet in tomorrow evening at the Julius Nyerere International Airport. According to the statement, the match will be ‘LaLiga World powered by SportPesa’ adding that the visit will involve a number of social and sport responsibility events including conducting clinics and trainings. “As a global competition, it meets LaLiga’s commitment to be close to its fans. The fact that our Tanzanian fans can get a close-up look at a great club like Sevilla FC means it’s a great opportunity for everyone,” said Oscar Mayo, LaLiga’s director of international development. On his part, the SportPesa Director of Administration and Compliance Tarimba Abbas said SportPesa has been collaborating with some of the most prestigious football institutions in the world and saw the need to bring an experience of this magnitude to Tanzania. “To be able to enjoy seeing one of the most emblematic football clubs in Europe - Sevilla FC through our agreement with LaLiga, the best league in the world, we will be able to showcase the talent in our country and improve the level of local football,” he said. The game is part of the ‘LaLiga World Challenge’ project, which aims to project the image of Spanish football internationally, spreading the ‘Marca España’ policy, bringing followers of La- Liga closer to the action and promoting the clubs outside Spain. Through its ‘LaLiga World’ brand, LaLiga organises friendly matches between LaLiga clubs and the most popular local teams around the world. This is the second European club to visit the African country - Everton FC played a match against Gor Mahia of Kenya in 2017. It is not the first time that Sevilla have visited the African continent, in 2015 the club travelled to Morocco to play a postseason LaLiga World match against Hassania Union Sport d’Agadir. LaLiga World Challenge is a programme created in 2014 by LaLiga with the support of the Government of Spain, the National Sports Council (CSD) and the Spanish Institute for Foreign Trade (ICEX). It is an initiative to bring professional football clubs from all over the world together to project the image of Spanish football internationally, to spread the values of the ‘Marca España’ policy and generate new opportunities for all parties involved through cultural, PR and business events.