MEMBERS of Parliament (MPs) yesterday remained united and pushed for renegotiation on the construction of the envisaged Bagamoyo Special Economic Zone (SEZ). Debating the 2019/2020 budget estimates for the ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, the lawmakers, particularly former ministers during the fourth phase government under Jakaya Kikwete expressed dismay over the government’s suspension of negotiations on establishment of the port, which they described as vital in complementing the country’s industrialisation drive. The legislators were reacting on the budget speech by the Works Minister, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe when tabling the ministry’s budget proposals. He said the government’s negotiation team suspended negotiations with two investors—China Merchant Holdings International Limited (CMHI) of China and State General Reserve Fund (SFRF) of Oman after the two investors came up with conditions that were against national interests. “Among the conditions is allowing them to decide on the levies and other charges as well as blocking other businesspeople from investing in the centres of Bagamoyo and Tanga,’’ said Engineer Kamwelwe, adding that the negotiations may only resume if the investors waive the unfavourable conditions, which do not protect the country’s interests. During the debate yesterday, Hanang MP and former Minister for Industries, Trade and Marketing under Mr Kikwete, Dr Mary Nagu (CCM), said Bagamoyo Port was vital for the country’s economic development. “When I was the minister at some point, we found out that Bagamoyo was the special economic zone,” she said. Bagamoyo MP and former Minister for Education during the fourth phase government Dr Shukuru Kawambwa (CCM) wondered why the construction of Bagamoyo SEZ has not kicked off while the foundation stone for the port was laid in 2013 and the framework and implementation agreements signed. He was supported by Buchosa MP and former minister in both the fourth and fifth phase governments Dr Charles Tizeba (CCM) who noted that it was crucial for the government to recall the negotiations because of the importance of the port to the country’s economy. “We are now constructing the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), which will be carrying cargo that needs the big port like Bagamoyo to receive them,” he argued. According to Muleba North MP and immediate former Minister for Industries, Trade and Investment Charles Mwijage (CCM), upon completion, the Bagamoyo SEZ was expected to have 1,000 industries constructed and creating over 5,000 employment opportunities. Rufiji lawmaker Mohammed Mchengerwa (CCM) requested asked for the negotiations that have been ongoing for seven years to be completed immediately for the construction works to start as soon as possible. Ilala MP Mussa Azzan Zungu (CCM) shared similar sentiments, requesting that the government’s negotiation team be asked to appear before parliament to explain the hurdles they were facing for the legislators to advise accordingly. “If completed, Bagamoyo SEZ is expected to pump into the country’s economy about 10 billion US dollars (over 23tri/- ), you can therefore see how important the project is,’’ said Nzega Urban lawmaker Hussein Bashe. The MPs were equally supported by the House Speaker Job Ndugai who said the government needs to reconsider negotiations on what he described as the ‘Mega Project.’