THE Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), has launched its detailed client Service Charter, which among other things aims at fighting graft, improving service delivery as well as intensifying transparency and accountability within the institution. The Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe graced the official launching here, insisting that the communications watchdog had made a tremendous milestone that will see the charter equally help in protecting the broader national interest. “I believe that this charter will intensify ethics, good governance and accountability on all the services offered by the communications regulator,’’ said Eng Kamwelwe. According to the minister, the charter is expected to be the solution or minimize considerably corruption complaints translated by members of the public as corruption acts by TCRA employees, because through transparency and giving the right information, it will enable TCRA to meet public expectations. Speaking at the function, the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Public Service Management and Good Governance), George Mkuchika said all public institutions were directed by his ministry to prepare the Client Service Charter, paying tribute to TCRA for implementing the directive within a short period. “My office still believes that the charter is the best tool in strengthening good governance and accountability, that is why I commend TCRA for honoring the directive,’’ he noted. He said the charter will enhance transparency in supervision of the authority’s daily activities as well as protecting the interests of the nation. The minister directed the remaining public institutions to establish the client service charter that will cope with the current situation to increase efficiency and transparency in the public service. Earlier, TCRA Director General, James Kilaba said the client service charter was an agreement between TCRA staff, clients and the entire community, explaining all the services offered by the communications watchdog as well as explaining how clients can lodge their complaints in case of poor services and when acts of bribery occur. He added that the charter was part of the national strategy against graft so as to attain the country’s economic development. “Prior to drafting the charter, we considered all the views from communication stakeholders, TCRA management and Board as well as corruption experts from the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB),’’ he said. According to him, with the new charter, it was difficult for TCRA officials to engage themselves in any acts of corruption and impunity in the course of discharging their duties. “Apart from the charter, TCRA has also prepared a special mobile phone Number, 0737300300 and email no-rushwa @tcra.go.tz, which will enable people with complaints to present them whenever they smell corruption in TCRA