THE ongoing RB A League continues to rage on the city tomorrow with three matches on card for a weekend showdown. Gosbert B oniface, the technical and competition director of the B asketball Dar es Salaam (B D), said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that basketball fans will have an opportunity to watch six teams locking horns in the threegame showdown to be staged at K urasini courts in the city. He said that as Dar es Salaam weather continues to be friendly, they expect Friday matches to be opened by a ladies discipline match between JK T Stars and K urasini Divas who will light up the court on the day. B oniface said the second match of the day will see Chui locking horns with Tanzania Prisons, before AB C take on M agnet in the day’s last encounter. Tanzania Prisons look to bounce back after the last weekend setback when they lost 89- 79 to V ijana in a thrilling encounter. Gosbert said that the league will continue on Saturday and Sunday at the National Indoor Stadium. U ntil this weekend Oilers who have played 10 games, continue to enjoy the helm of the League table with 19 points with a loss of only a point so far. JKT are placed second with 18 points, just a point adrift the leaders, but they have played 9 matches. U konga K ings are among the few teams that are yet to lose a point. The team has played 10 matches and have hauled 18 points at the third place. Also in the list of the top contenders are fourth-placed V ijana City B ulls who have notched 16 points from 9 matches and they are ahead of the fifth-placed AB C who have collected 14 points from 7 matches. At the sixth position, M abibo B ullets, who have played 9 matches, also parade 14 points, one point superior to M gulani J K T who grabbed 13 points from 9 matches. Eighth-placed Tanzania Prisons have also carved 13 points after 9 outings. The country’s basketball giants Savio look to be in a difficult season as they struggle to match with the speed of the top ridders. Savio have accumulated 12 points from 8 matches.