PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday reaffirmed the government’s commitment to ensure that all remote areas in the country have access to communications networks by December 2020. The premier directed the Universal Communications Service Access Fund (UCSAF), a public institution responsible for financing communication infrastructure, to ensure that the remaining six per cent of villages that have no access to telecom networks are covered before the deadline. He issued the directive here while officiating at the climax of celebrations to mark UCSAF’s 10th anniversary. The celebrations, which were accompanied by various exhibitions on activities of the public firm, kicked off last Saturday. According to UCSAF Chief Executive Officer, Engineer Peter Ulanga, so far 94 percent of the country has been connected to communication infrastructure, up from 45 per cent prior to the fund’s establishment. “During the implementation of various projects, we spent about 118bn/-,’’ said Eng Ulanga. Mr Majaliwa said for the country to attain its middle income economy, it is inevitable for all people to have access to communication services, adding that the government was fully committed to facilitate widening of all mobile phone operators’ networks, data, radio and television communications in the country. He paid tribute to all telecommunication network service providers, including Vodacom, Airtel, Viettel, Tigo, TTCL and Zantel, among others, for the long term partnership they have had with the government through UCSAF. Representatives of the telecom companies pledged to continue working closely with the government to ensure that all people have access to the services by 2020. “Through UCSAF partnership, Vodacom Tanzania has managed to erect over 200 communications towers in 210 wards, connecting about 3.6 million people,’’ said Vodacom Executive Head of Central Zone, Grace Chambua. Ms Chambua added that her company was enjoying the partnership with the government, hinting that the major goal of Vodacotechnology. She said the company will continue working with UCSAF to ensure that the target to connect all people is met. In his speech, the premier issued other directives to UCSAF, among them, to ensure that all people benefit from the ongoing projects, protection of communications infrastructure as well as helping citizens to tap the potential of the communications networks to improve their lives. Mr Majaliwa further asked officials in the ministry of works, transport and communications; ministry of state in the president’s office, regional administration and local government to remove all the bottlenecks that have been impeding telecom companies to operate effectively. But, he quickly warned all Tanzanians who have been misusing telecom companies to incite people or disseminate unethical videos, insisting that the government will not hesitate to institute appropriate disciplinary and legal measures. Earlier, the Deputy Minister of Works, Transport and Communications, Engineer Atashasta Nditiye said the government expects in the 2019/20 fiscal year to provide tender for communication infrastructure in 250 wards. He said the government is fully committed to ensure that all villages have communications network within the scheduled period.