THIS global attention will be shifted to Africa again this week as the ambitious African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) comes into force at the end of the week. Fifty-two African states committed to cutting duties on 90 per cent of goods and 27 countries signed a protocol providing for freedom of movement to create the largest free trade agreement since the creation of the World Trade Organisation. The deal creates one of the world’s largest free-trade areas by slashing tariffs across a $2.5trn market of 1.2 billion people and a single continental market for goods and services with free movement of business persons and investments. According to the United Nations, this could boost intra-African trade by 52.3%. And once countries drop their remaining tariffs, which they will be allowed to maintain for a decade in order to protect key industries, the U.N. says intra-African trade will double. The AfCFTA has been a flagship project of the African Union’s “Agenda 2063” development drive for five years now. It got a major push forward under the AU chairmanship of Rwandan President Paul Kagame last year. He got almost every African country to sign the deal in March 2018. It will be building on East African Community (EAC) success in intraregional trade which, while low compared to regions outside Africa, is the highest among regional economic communities in Africa at 19.35 per cent of exports, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). Analysts agree that the agreement has the potential to deliver a great deal for countries on the continent. It is expected that it will boost intra African trade, which in turn will drive the structural transformation of economies – the transition from low productivity and labour intensive activities to higher productivity and skills intensive industrial and service activities— which in turn will produce better paid jobs and make an impact on poverty. As we are all excited about the potential to benefit from the agreement described as a potential game changer in the continent, we have our homework to do because the benefits will not drop like manna from heaven. We need to build productive trading capacity through regional value chain as well as the capacity and structural transformation necessary to be a competitive international player. We must also create enabling conditions to ensure productivity is raised to international competitiveness standards. In East Africa, we are moving in the right direction with the industrialisation agenda which is contributing to diversification of imports. However we must remain committed in improving business and investment environment to support local businesses and attract more foreign and domestic investments. After all it is said countries that trade together grow together.