ARUSHA City will for the first time host one of the biggest East African trade and tourism fair, Karibu-Kilifair, to be attended by 470 local exhibitors, more than 500 international travel agents and more than 5,000 visitors. Launching the 2019 Karibu-Kilifair here over the weekend, Co-Directors of Kilifair Promotion Company, Mr Tom Kunkler and Mr Dominic Shoo said the event will run from 7th to 9th June, this year at Friedrich Recreation Centre, formerly known as TGT grounds. That will come as a forum for more exhibitors and buyers meeting for trade and exhibitions, after shifting it from Moshi, where it was annually held at Ushirika Grounds. He hinted that it was necessary to move it from Moshi because the ground could no longer accommodate the number of participants ever souring, adding that, however, another reason is that Kilifair joined hands with Karibu Fair that used to organise it teaming up with Tanzania Tour Operators (TATO). “This will be after Ramadan ... the new venue provides enough space to improve the fair by 70 per cent of now 27,000 square metres. Karibu Fair (TATO) and Kilifair are both well-known tourist exhibitions, and joined in 2017 as one body to become by far the largest and most important tourism trade fair in East Africa,” noted Mr Kunkler. On his side, Mr Shoo said the event will be as well held in Arusha next year, with efforts underway in collaboration with Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner’s Office to acquire a bigger ground for it for future expanding events. With an improved fair layout, said Mr Shoo, the united Karibu-Kilifair 2019 will organise more exhibition stands with several buyers likely to visit than ever. “We expect more than 470 local exhibitors, and more than 500 international travel agents and buyers as well as more than 5,000 visitors. “Where business meets wildlife’ being the 2019 motto, and reflects ‘straight to the point’ what travel agents all over the world can expect in Tanzania and East Africa, this is because Karibu-Kilifair is representing and promoting the Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions,” he pointed out. The fair also stands as a promotion forum for Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) and national reserves, Zanzibar and tourism in all neighbouring East African countries as well as potential travel agents and buyers from Africa, Europe, America and Asia to showcase their products. The director further unveiled that during the exhibitions, all the events will be aired live on Television, where exhibitors from 15 countries, up from last year’s 11, had confirmed their participation by last week. There will be more than 35 seminars during the event with top international speakers on tourism sector taking part to enlighten the participants. In another development, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism has hailed Kilifair Promotion Company for the initiative to organise the event and promote the country’s tourism attractions. “We wish to inform you that the Ministry is humbled with great initiatives taken by your good office in organising the Karibu-Kilifair exhibition that promotes both international and domestic tourism. “This event is also expected to enable distinguished visitors and exhibitors to explore investment and business opportunities available in the tourism sector in our country,” a letter signed by Mr Philip Chitaunga, on behalf of the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, read in part. The ministry added that the PS will extend its continued support and cooperation to encourage all stakeholders, including respective authorities and offices to accord them necessary support and see into it that it succeeds.