ENERGY Minister Dr Medard Kalemani, has directed Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) to ensure that all households in peripheral areas of the country’s cities get connected to electricity by next month. He issued the directive here over the weekend after visiting peripheral areas of Dodoma City, noting that households without electricity service should start wiring their houses. “The government wants peripheral areas to get connected to electricity service by June this year,” said Dr K alemani during his visit to inspect electricity infrastructure at Ntyuka area in Dodoma City. The minister, who was accompanied by TANESCO Managing Director Dr Tito Mwinuka and top officials from Tanesco Dodoma Regional Office, had visited Ntyuka and Nkonze areas in Dodoma City. Dr K alemani observed that electricity service was vital to expedite social and economic development and that all households without electricity service should be connected to the service. Last week, the energy minister underscored the need for public to get connected to electricity, for which President John Magufuli had given over 48bn/- to Dodoma Region for the purpose. Speaking during the inauguration of an electricity supply service at the B usi health centre in K ondoa District, Dr K alemani urged the residents who have endured darkness for decades to seize the opportunity for increased economic activities. “We cannot be investing heavily in energy and power projects only to be let down by people for choosing not to get connected to electricity,” said Dr Kalemani. He advised them to pay the electricity connection fee of 27,000/- in installments depending on one’s economic status so that at the end of the day they all have power. Dr K alemani said that under the REA III projects, all villages in K ondoa will be covered, allaying fears that they would be skipped. Taking into consideration the distance from Busi to K ondoa, the minister advised Tanesco to set up an office in the village even twice a week where the public will fill in forms and pay the connection fee. “You have the vehicles and all other facilities to serve the public, follow them where they are; especially the ones in remote areas; that is what we are paid for,” said Dr K alemani. He directed Tanesco to disconnect power from all institutions with pending bills since everyone using the service must pay for it on time. The minister called upon the K ondoa District Council chairman and executive director to ensure that they settle their pending bills so that others can benefit as well. “Give them one month to settle their bills; else, disconnect the service from those who wouldn’t have done so by then,” he said.