THE funeral of IPP Executive Chairman Reginald Mengi is scheduled for Machame in Kilimanjaro Region on Thursday, an itinerary issued by the family shows. Issuing the timetable yesterday Dr Mengi’s Legal Counsel Michael Ngallo said the body of the philanthropist would arrive in the country aboard Emirates flight on Monday morning before being preserved at Lugalo Military Hospital. On Tuesday afternoon it will be taken to Karimjee Hall, where mourners will have an opportunity to pay their last respects before it is taken to his residence for prayers. Mr Ngalo said on Wednesday morning the body would be flown to Kilimanjaro Region before driven to his ancestral land at Machame Village, where it would stay until the following day. He said on Thursday the body would be taken to Kisereny Parish of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) for prayers before the burial. Yesterday, former President Mkapa wrote his tribute following the passing of Dr Mengi, describing him a staunch nationalist, who stood for the general welfare of citizens. “During my presidency, Dr Mengi, through various interactions, made me a better President. He was always true to his opinion, even if it differed with my standpoint and enabled me to immensely benefit from his wise counsel,” Mr Mkapa noted. He added: “His role in helping the nation to nurse the still nascent private sector can never be over emphasised. He considered this the imperative of every citizen that aspires to see this country make developmental strides.” From Dodoma, Bernard Lugongo reports that the Parliament remembered the chairman of IPP Group Reginald Mengi for his notable contributions to socioeconomic development. National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai said the Parliament joined the government and the nation at large in mourning the death of the popular businessman and billionaire in the country. Mr Ndugai described Mr Mengi as a successful person and rich man, who had started from a very poor beginning. "We join the family and the nation in mourning Mr Mengi," the Speaker announced in the National Assembly in the morning before starting the Parliament business. Mr Ndugai said the Parliament would always remember him for his efforts in protecting the environment such as the surroundings of Kilimanjaro Mountain. Apart from that, Mr Mengi was the owner of media houses, industries and held various leadership positions of different institutions such as the chairman of Media Owners Association (MOT) and chairman of different boards of directors. Mr Mengi also received various national and international awards in recognition of his contribution to socioeconomic development. Mr Ndugai said Dr Mengi extended community support to needy people. "For the Parliament, he recently donated 50m/- to a project under the Tanzania Women Parliamentary Group (TWPG) for building better toilets for schoolgirls," the Speaker recalled. The Parliament, as one of the government's pillars, gave its tribute to Mr Mengi after President John Magufuli did the same on the day the news of his demise broke out on Thursday in Dubai, UAE. President Magufuli sent his condolences as he twitted, saying he was saddened by the death of his friend, Dr Mengi, and he would always remember him for his development contributions to the nation and vision of his book 'I CAN, I WILL, I MUST.' For her part, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan also posted on her Twitter that, among other issues, she would remember Mr Mengi for his flexibility in supporting the community.