WHENEVER I am in a commuter bus, travelling from Point A to Point B, my mind is often almost fully absorbed in crucial issues centred on, say, family welfare. Music emanating from a radio within the vehicle is thus out of the question. What’s more, as if it is standard practice, the volume is often intolerably high. Given the foul language with which some ‘daladala’ crew are ‘blessed’, requesting that the volume be lowered can lead to a nasty verbal exchange. The safest approach, then, is to do what is somewhat humorously known as “to grin and bear it”. My experience yesterday was a departure from the normal practice. For the first time, my attention was captivated by music centred on death, courtesy of a local radio station. The theme was apparently triggered by the death in Dubai, of the iconic businessman Reginald Abraham Mengi, the news centred on which had started spreading on social media networks from around daybreak. I had heard the news shortly before leaving home, and the subject was the talking point amongst some of my fellow passengers. But back to the music, which the radio station had apparently decided would focus entirely on how cruel death was. Incidentally, two of the early songs featured on the programme were by famous musicians who subsequently died; Dr Remmy Ongara and Marijani Rajabu. Remmy condemned death as something that was extremely cruel; and which a specific individual was compelled to come to grips with alone; that no-one accompanies a person who kisses the world bye-bye to the grave. On his part, Marijani mourned the loss of a closely beloved person. He said that, if it were possible, he would file an appeal to God to lock death out. The third song was by a youthful musician whose touching message was that, he would be mighty delighted if his long dead parents were to resurface; to spare him and his siblings of the hardships they were encountering after their departure ! Beyond disembarking from the bus and entering the newsroom of this newspaper, where Dr Mengi’s death was the talking point, the messages in the songs kept ringing in my mind. Momentarily, I also reflected on a song by the late Mbaraka Mwinshehe Mwaruka of Morogoro Jazz Band-Orchestra Super Volcano fame. Mbaraka talked of death being cruel and could strike anywhere and anyhow, including on wedding day ! I furthermore reflected on a message of a sermon of a clergyman in my local church a few months ago, in which he advised each of us to psychologically, but more crucially spiritually, condition oneself for that inevitable eventuality, for to quote him verbatim: “One of us will certainly be the next person to be recalled by God.” As a reader, you may wonder what I am driving at. It is this; that, death is an unstoppable eventuality. Still, though, coming to terms with it isn’t easy at all. This applies to Mzee Mengi, as it did to several other people who preceded him on that fate, and will do for those who will subsequently be similarly fated. And naturally, the death of a high-profile, very widely known personality of Dr Mengi’s calibre becomes a subject of deeper shock and disbelief. And more-so in the light of his death not having been preceded by publicised spoilers such as ill-health. As Executive Chairman of the IPP Group of Companies, within which I worked for some time as editor of one of the week-end English newspapers, Dr Mengi came across as an amiable executive. He regularly convened brainstorming sessions with editors, on how to improve operations and enhance the publications’ outlooks. Dr Mengi, an accomplished accountant whose entrepreneurial spirit stretches back to when he was a young man, was credited with the establishment of several industries. Many people credit him for having created job and therefore livelihood openings via employment opportunities. His profile shot into even brighter limelight upon his pioneering entry into the electronic and print media in the early 1990s. He held various chairmanships (including of the Board of Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited) and the National Environmental Management Council. He had, until his death, been Chairman of the Media Owners Association of Tanzania. On the environment specifically, he was instrumental in a tree-planting initiative around Mount Kilimanjaro from 1987, the figure by 2014 exceeding 24 million. He was the recipient of local as well as international awards, examples being The order of the united Republic of Tanzania (1994) and The Order of the Arusha Declaration of the First Class (1995), and The 2012 Business For Peace Award. Having emerged from humble beginnings to shoot to economic and social prominence, Dr Mengi’s hatred of poverty crafted him into a prominent philanthropist, He will be sorely missed by various facets of society at home and beyond.