IMPROVED health services have significantly reduced patient referrals to abroad treatment from 114 patients between July 2017 and March 2018 to 62 between July 2018 and March, this year. Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu told the National Assembly here yesterday that the reduction of referrals to foreign hospitals was a result of improved specialised medical services in the country. In a related development, Ms Mwalimu said the government will in September this year table in the house a bill for establishment of universal health insurance coverage in the country. Available statistics indicate that 17,246,847 Tanzanians, representing 33 per cent of the population, have enrolled for health insurance under the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) and Community Health Fund (CHF). Eight per cent of the members and their dependents are under NHIF coverage while 25 per cent are covered through CHF, the minister explained. Ms Mwalimu made the revelation when tabling 2019/2010 budget estimates for the ministry, asking the legislators to approve 990.7bn/- for recurrent and development expenditures. According to the minister, cancer and heart complications topped the referral cases, with 16 and 15 patients, respectively while 12 patients with orthopaedic complications and six with neurological problems were referred to foreign hospitals. “There were also five patients with problems in their blood vessels,  one with kidney complications and seven others with various health complications who were taken abroad for specialised treatment,” she explained in the budget speech. The minister explained that between July 2018 and March 2019, Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) conducted 29 kidney (renal) transplants, bringing the total number of patients who received the treatment to 38 since the services were introduced in November 2017. “The cost of kidney transplant at Muhimbili is between 20m/- and 30m/- for one patient while the same procedure costs between 100m/ and 120m/- abroad. A total of 2.24bn/- was therefore saved through conducting the procedures in the country,”she explained. Ms Mwalimu explained further that Muhimbili has performed 21 cochlear implants for children since the services were introduced in the country’s major referral hospital in June, 2017. “Before the treatment was introduced, patients were treated abroad at between 80m/ and 100m/- per one child. The same procedure is undertaken for between 35m/ and 40m/- per patient, meaning that 840m/- was saved through undertaking the treatment, domestically,” she explained. The minister further told the august house that 125 patients received intervention radiology to allow surgery of the neck and head as well as removal of tumours, among other internal health complications. “In total, 170 patients received the treatment since it was introduced in November 2017. The cost of intervention radiology at Muhimbili is just 8m/- against 96m/- for similar treatment abroad. About 15bn/- was saved,” she explained. Presenting the views of the Parliamentary Committee on Community Development, Kigoma North MP Peter Serukamba (CCM) who also chairs the committee, urged the government to hasten the introduction of universal health coverage. “It’s high time the government tabled the bill for establishment of the insurance cover given the fact about 60 per cent of Tanzanians do not have health insurance,” he urged. Shadow Minister for Health Ester Matiko (Tarime Urban- Chadema) urged the government to increase allocation of funds to the health sector. “The Abuja Declaration, which was passed 15 years ago, requires African countries to allocate 15 per cent of their budgets to the health sector but in Tanzania, the allocation remains below 10 per cent,” she charged. During the financial year 2018/2019 the government allocated 866.233bn/- for recurrent and development expenditures in the health sector.