Urban Member of Parliament Stephen Masele (CCM) has escaped suspension from attending three meetings of the National Assembly, despite conviction over disorderly conduct, indiscipline and contempt of the legislature. National Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai said he has forgiven Mr Masele and requested the house to ignore and forgive him, despite “his grave misconduct.” Initially, the Parliamentary Powers, Privileges and Ethics Committee convicted Masele of four counts and proposed suspension of the youthful MP from attend- From NELLY MTEMA in Dodoma TOURISTS visiting Tanzania increased by 18 per cent from 1,327,143 in 2017 to 1,505,702 last year, with additional revenues of two million US dollars (over 4.5bn/-) for the country. Thanks to intensified antipoaching efforts, the country has as well recorded an increasing population of elephants. Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla (pictured), tabling the ministry’s 120bn/- budget estimates for recurrent and development expenditures in the 2019/20 fiscal year, said the soaring number of tourists has led to increasing revenues. ing three meetings of the 15th Bunge meeting. Delivering the verdict, Committee Chairman and Tabora Urban MP (CCM) Emmannuel Mwakasaka said Mr Masele was found guilty of disorderly conduct due to his travel outside the country without the speaker’s approval, describing the offence as contempt of the legislative body. HigherMwakasaka further said that Mr Masele was found guilty of writing a short message and sending it to top government officials. In the third count, the MP who doubles as Vice-President of Pan African Parliament (PAP) was convicted over deliberate refusal to honour the speaker’s directive to return home. The committee chairman said that the convict was found guilty of acting in a manner that put the parliament at loggerheads with other executive arms of the state. However, Speaker Ndugai told the house that he had on Wednesday received a notice from Masele on his intention to apologise. He then invited the MP to apologise to the house. In his apology, Mr Masele insisted that he never intended to commit anything wrong. “May I take this opportunity to apologise to you, Honourable Speaker, your family and fellow MPs…I also apologise to CCM Chairman and President John Magufuli as well as to Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who also chairs CCM MPs in parliament for all the inconveniences caused by my actions,” he said. However, he said his conscious remains clear that he did nothing wrong because he followed all the procedures before he left the country for South Africa where he attended PAP meeting that aimed at investigating PAP President and Speaker Nkodo Dang, a Cameroonian, against sexual abuse related allegations by the parliament staff. Mr Masele was found guilty of writing a short message and sending it to top government officials. The MP who doubles as Vice-President of Pan African Parliament (PAP) was also convicted over deliberate refusal to honour the speaker’s directive to return home “Why me, we have four MPs from Tanzania, who are members of PAP and I wrote notification to the Clerk of the National Assembly, Stephen Kagaigai regarding my trip to South Africa to attend the crucial meeting,” he defended himself. He also claimed that the suspended PAP President, Dang, wanted to remove him from his position as Vice-President, based on a letter from Speaker Ndugai, recalling him back home. And, that is why, Mr Masele argued, he deemed it fit to write to CCM Chairman, President Magufuli and Prime Minister Majaliwa to seek their advice and guidance. It was accusation and counter accusation as Speaker Ndugai stood again, saying, “This matter is unique to have happened in this house. It’s unfortunate that Mr Masele has yet to grasp what is happening. Surely, here we are not dealing with PAP issues. We recalled you here for issues related to this house, not otherwise.” “In fact, Masele stop being a master of mischief, liar and instigator, intending to put government leaders at loggerheads…such acts don’t reflect the good image of Tanzania, internationally, ” fumed Speaker Ndugai. Additionally, Mr Ndugai said, Mr Masele, as PAP First Vice-President, has been pressing for various benefits, which are beyond the limitation of the speaker’s office. He has allegedly been demanding body guards from the national security as well as posh house and luxury car, Speaker Ndugai opened up.