DEVELOPMENT projects in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication have been allocated 4.8trl/- in the next fiscal year, up from 4.2trl/- in the current financial year while the second to fourth phase of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project in Dar es Salaam have been allocated 28.8bn/-. The second phase of BRT will cover 20 kilometres from the city centre to Mbagala and the junction of Kilwa Road to Chang’ombe along Nyerere Road and Kawawa Road as well as part of Sokoine Drive in the central business district. Tabling budget estimates for the financial year 2019/2020, the Minister of Works, Transport and Communication, Engineer Isack Kamwelwe, said phase two of BRT will also include construction of two flyovers and terminals. Eng Kamwelwe told the august house that a feasibility study and detailed designing will be undertaken for the third phase of the project covering 23.6 kilometres, which will cover part of Bibi Titi and Azikiwe roads in the CBD. The minister explained further that the fourth phase of the BRT project will cover 25.9 kilometres from the city centre along Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road-Morocco to Mwenge and Tegeta, along New Bagamoyo Road. According to Eng Kamwelwe, the fourth phase will also include construction of BRT lanes from Ubungo to Mwenge along Sam Nujoma Road. In a related development, Eng Kamwelwe said the government has allocated 500bn/- to boost operations of Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL), notingthat the flag carrier controls 40.8 per cent of the market share in the aviation industry at present, up from just 2.5 per cent in 2017. The minister said that the airline transported 307,192 passengers between July 2018 and March this year, up from 216,798 who were transported between July 2017 and March 2018, representing an increase of 41.69 per cent. Part of the funds will be spent on improving the ATCL hangar at Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and advance payment of new planes for the revamped airline. Eng Kamwelwe further told the House that the development funds will be spent on the ongoing construction of the central railway line to Standard Gauge, revamping of the existing Metre Gauge Railway line and purchase of locomotives and train wagons for the SGR. “Other projects include renovation of the existing railroad along the central railway line from Dar es Salaam to Isaka and improvement of services in commuter trains in Dar es Salaam,” the minister told the House. Eng Kamwelwe also explained that the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) had allocated 548bn/- for improvement of ports and procurement of new equipment to improve efficiency. The Chairman of Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, Mr Moshi Kakoso, urged the government to disburse all funds meant for development projects in the sector.