SIMBA SC skipper John Bocco said they will use the upcoming international friendly match against the Spanish side Sevilla FC to display their potentials. Spanish giants Sevilla are expected to land in the country on May 21st and take on the Mainland Premier League giants Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in a game set to begin at 7 :00pm. The tour of the La Liga giants has been facilitated by the leading betting firm, SportPesa Tanzania, in collaboration with La Liga with Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) among the tour organisers. Speaking about the game, Bocco said all his teammates are delighted to host Sevilla who currently sit on the sixth slot on the 20-team La Liga table. “We are gearing up for this rare chance and our aim is to showcase the talent we have to the whole world bearing in mind that the match will be closely followed by many people,” said Bocco. The captain further hailed SportPesa Tanzania for bringing home another European team after doing the same with the English Premier League side Everton FC in 2017 . “Apart from being our sponsors, SportPesa Tanzania has so far shown their commitment in promoting football in the country. They deserve compliments and on behalf of Simba SC players, we will make sure that we play to win the encounter,” said Bocco. According to him, the game will also help to give Simba players international exposure after the tough assignments against the African giants like TP Mazembe, Al Ahly, AS V ita and many others. “I request football fans in the country to come in their big numbers to watch live the clash and fill the 60,000 capacity National Stadium. We promise not to let them down on the day even though it will be the difficult tie,” he said. However, Sevilla players and official will also visit some of tourist attractions in the country apart from playing the match. The areas to be visited by them will be announced later after the completion of the preparations. Tanzania has so many tourist attractions, which the club players and officials would like to visit, but due to the time limit, they will have to select few to inspire them. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) in collaboration with SportPesa have released entry charges for the hot game which are 5 ,000/- for Orange seats, 15 ,000/- for Blue seats and 100,000/- for Platinum tickets respectively.