POLICE in Tarime/Rorya zone have gunned down a suspected gangster in a fierce exchange of fire during a foiled armed robbery attempt at the outskirts of Tarime town. The police managed to recover one gun and four rounds of ammunition. The zonal RPC, Henry Mwaibambe told reporters at his office yesterday that on the material day at around 0300hrs at Nkerege village, police while on patrol at the Tarime central business district(CBD) received intelligence reports from law abiding citizens that a gang of armed robbers were planning to carry out an armed robbery. He said following the tipoff, the police set up a trap near the area where the group was planning to rob from an undisclosed warehouse business stall situated at Tarime downtown. ''When the police approached the scene, the gangsters who were armed opened fire on the law enforcers, and a fierce gun battle ensued, forcing the four robbers to flee,” he said. He explained that during the shoot-out, one suspect was hit from behind and dropped his weapon while his accomplices evaded the trap by getting away on motorbikes. He said efforts to save his life proved futile as he was pronounced dead upon arrival at the district hospital where doctors confirmed that he died due to excessive bleeding. ''The gangsters were in possession of an SMG weapon and four rounds of ammunition that were retrieved from the dead suspect identified as Bahati Nyakiha (30), a resident of Nyarero village,” he noted. The zonal boss said the body was preserved at the district mortuary and appealed to the deceased's next-of- kin to visit the premises so that they can participate in an identification process, adding that an intense manhunt has been launched to track down the remaining three bandits. In a related development, RPC Mwaibambe revealed that the police force is set to conduct a 24-hour operation at Kitembe Ward in the neighbouring Rorya District where cattle rusting is rampant. ''We plan to wipe out armed rustlers who are colluding with other dangerous international criminals operating at the Tanzanian-Kenyan border, who are engaged in criminal activities, including smuggling of stolen cattle outside the country,'' the RPC said.