AUTHORITIES in Dar es Salaam have embarked on a process to procure mosquito sprayers with the capacity to cover relatively large areas in efforts of fighting against dengue fever in the region. According to the latest reports by the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, more than 2,900 people have been diagnosed with the fever since it was first reported in January, this year. Dar es Salaam Regional Medical Officer (RMO ), Dr Yudas Ndungile told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that regional authorities have taken various measures to fight the disease, such as destruction of mosquito breeding sites and public awareness about the disease, particularly in hard hit wards. Some of the wards which have been seriously affected, with the number of cases in brackets are Ilala (235), Sinza (223), Upanga (87), Kisutu (86), Kariakoo (79), Mbezi (78), Kimara (65), Msaki (56), Msasani (50), Wazo (49), Kinondoni (45), Mikocheni (40), Gerezani (40) and Tabata (41). “We have managed to spray biolarvicides in stagnant water in order to destroy mosquito breeding grounds... process is underway to procure mosquito sprayers that will cover large areas,” Dr Ndungile said. He explained that earlier, efforts were directed towards destroying mosquito larvae, but currently the authorities were also focusing on destroying adult mosquitoes by spraying insecticide into the air. The RMO noted that the procurement of the machines were being done by Dar es Salaam councils under the coordination of the regional authority. He however called upon the public to continue taking preventive measures such as eliminating stagnant water or spraying insecticide to destroy mosquito larvae, keep their surroundings clean, use mosquito repellents and treated mosquito nets for those who sleep during daytime. Mid this month, the government said it has intensified efforts in the fight against the mosquitotransmitted dengue fever reported in some regions in the country, including Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Singida, Kilimanjaro and Coast. The Chief Medical Officer, Prof Muhammad Kambi detailed that currently, the National Health Laboratory has 43 test kits with the capacity of diagnosing 430 people. “These test kits remained after distributing 156 kits to various public health facilities in the country, the government has also placed an order of 3000 test kits with the capacity of testing 30,000 people...the aim is to ensure that our public facilities have enough test kits,” he said.