THE Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe revealed that on 2nd June, the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB) will sign a contract with the national football team skipper Mbwana Samatta as its ambassador. He made the announcement on Saturday at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam where he went to welcome Samatta who jetted in on the day to regroup with his teammates as they are set to embark on 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) preparations. “No one can dispute the fact that Samatta has been a good representative of our country across the world. He is respectful, hardworking and friendly guy always eager to learn new things and reach far in his football profession. These are the qualities we need other young people in the country to emulate,” Mwakyembe said. Adding, Mwakyembe said upon realising that Sports and Tourism are inseparable, his ministry is now working closely with TTB for the sake of uplifting both sectors countrywide. “On many occasions, when Samatta is playing at his KRC Genk club, you see supporters in the stands waving high Tanzania colours and that is exactly which has convinced the TTB to use him as its ambassador and I am sure that he will execute well the required responsibilities,” Mwakyembe said. The minister further said Tanzanians will be happy to see Samatta playing at a high level English Premier League team like Manchester United or Chelsea insisting that it is possible for him to do so since he is already at the right channel to make it big. He then encouraged many youth football players to be disciplined and hardworking if they too want to reach far in their football careers. “I am looking forward to the day when at least 100 football players from here will be trading profession football outside the country,” he said. On his part, Samatta thanked Mwakyembe and the government at large for acknowledging his works outside the nation promising to do his utmost to continue putting Tanzania on a world map. “Ever since I got the opportunity to play outside the country, I have been convincing my friends to come here and explore the beauty that our country is endowed with. According to this, I have been doing ambassador duties even before this formal announcement,” said he. Elaborating on the upcoming AFCON games, the captain said he has come to lead his fellow players for the Egypt mission where they are going to compete and not to participate. Asked which league he would like to play should the chance come, Samatta replied: “Playing in English Premier League is my dream but I usually take any opportunity which comes by.”