IT’S mission accomplished for Simba SC after the yesterday’s 2-0 victory over Singida United at the Namfua Stadium in Singida earned them Premier League title for the second time. It was Simba’s 20th league title on their club mantelpiece. The team’s leading scorer Meddie Kagere put the champions ahead in the 10th minute of the game after cultivating on defender Salum Kipaga’s failure to clear Mohamed Hussein cross and Kagere snatched the ball inside the box before turning quickly and hit the target leaving goalkeeper Said Lubawa stunned. It was Kagere’s 23rd goal of the season that made him intensifies the lead for the Golden Boot race. Earlier Muzamir Yassin was missed an opener in the opening minutes of the match after goalkeeper Said Lubawa denied his efforts from a long range attempt out the box. While skipper John Bocco grabbed the second goal for Simba in the in the 62nd minute after nodding home into an empty goal from Emmanuel Okwi’s cross capitalising on goalkeeper Lubawa’s technical blunder to double his side lead and guaranteed his side the league title. Lubawa, who sustained injury from his effort to clear the ball failed to return to his goal due to the injury and was replaced by Robert Vedasto. Bocco’s goal assured Simba 91 points from 36 games which cannot be reached by any other club featuring in the season league. Like last season Simba once again clinched the title in Singida Region. Simba who kicked off yesterday game in a high tempo looked eager to take the lead so as to make sure they kill the game early, but missed several scoring chances through Okwi, Bocco and Kagere, with the most of them wasted by Bocco who has currently scored 16 goals. He ties with Yanga’s Herieter Makambo and Mwadui FC Salim Aiyee at the second slot. Bocco golden opportunity came in the 14th minute, but his powerful header was saved by Kennedy Wilson who cleared the ball before crossing the line. Okwi as well could have his name on the score sheet yesterday, but his shot inside the box went a few inches out of the target. The hosts Singida United fought hard in their attempt to level the score after coming back into the game, but Habib Kyombo, Boniface Maganga attempts were either cleared by the solid defence or went off target. In the second half United looked a sharper side in the opening minutes and Jonathan Daka could have scored in the early minutes, but he missed the opportunity after failing to cultivate on Simba’s defensive mistakes. In general Simba goalkeeper Deogratius Munishi, who was on rest in most time of the game, could have been beaten if Daka shot on target. Simba were declared the champions with two games on hand as they have a game against Biashara United and Mtibwa Sugar to finish the season. As champions, Simba players will earn five million Tanzanian shillings bonus award each from the club as promised by the Club’s Board Chairman and share holder Mohamed Dewji.