ALL is in place for the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo G olf Club of Dar es Salaam to organise this year TANAPA Lugalo Open G olf Championship. The 36 holes two-day championship that brings together top local golfers is scheduled to tee off on May 11 and 12 at the par-72 golf course. Japhet Masai, the Lugalo G olf Club captain told the ‘ Daily News’ yesterday that the preparation for the two day event was on a top gear. “All is going on well and we are happy to announce that TANAPA Lugalo Open is ready for a tee off and everyone is welcomed,” he said. Masai added that they have already sent invitations to other clubs for them to consider and that they expect good response before May 9 which is a deadline for those wishing to take part. He added: “New international rules shall be applied effectively during the tournament while also defining the local rules through the Friday Fiddle a day later on May 10,” he explained. Masai, however, said that they hope the weather will be on their favour as the just started rain season might affect the course. He said that his club is grateful to have the event bankrolled by Tanzania National Parks Authority (TANAPA) for the second consecutive year. Lugalo Open is one of the prestigious tournaments in the club and Tanzania G olf Union’s calendar that showcase golfers’ talents. Masai said that the tournament is open for amateur men and women players from all divisions. He also said professional golfers have been invited to compete for various cash prizes. Masai expects to see over 170 golfers from six clubs coming to Lugalo Club to vie for major titles. Youthful G odfrey G wacha from Lugalo emerged the overall winner of the last year event after beating his closest challenger Richard Mtweve by three shots. G wacha who expects to defend his title this month, started playing golf last year. Overall nett winner was Aggrey John also from Lugalo who posted 138 strokes while Dar es Salaam G ymkhana Club’s Arnold Simoni who carded 139 strokes finished second.