ZANZIBAR President, Ali Mohamed Shein has asked members of the business community not to take advantage of the holy month of Ramadan to increase prices of essential food commodities. “Traders and businesspersons should not ‘abuse’ the fasting month to increase the prices of goods without any justification. Make it a month of charity and highly observe business ethics,” Dr Shein said here yesterday in his message to wish Muslims in the country good luck in their fasting. Ramadan or Ramadhan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar and is observed by Muslims worldwide as a month of fasting. It is likely to begin on Tuesday according to the Chief Sheikh, Aboubakar Zuberi. Shein said that the government has been taking all necessary measures to improve business environment for trade, including tax exemption on some commodities so that people fasting can buy at affordable price. H e said it was unfortunate, some traders remain dishonest in their business and hike food prices. President Shein, also wished good luck to secondary school students sitting for the 2019 national ‘Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (ACSEE)’ scheduled to start today. “We hope you had good preparations and you are ready for the exams. Do not cheat. Aim at achieving the highest grade, and never allow zero marks,” Shein said in separate speech read on his behalf by the Minister for Education and Vocational Training, Ms Riziki Pembe Juma. Speaking to students (Form VI candidates) and their teachers at Lumumba Secondary School here, the Minister emphasised on discipline during the national exams, reiterating rewards (including scholarships) to best performing students. The Deputy Minister for Education and Vocational Training Mr Simai Mohamed Said who also attended the meeting with Form VI candidates wished the all students sitting for the exams good luck. Since the exams will be done during the holy month of Ramadan, the H ead teacher of Lumumba Secondary School said the students should not worry about Iftar (food) because already there are people who have donated different foodstuffs for them.