GIANTS Young Africans received a timely 20m/- cash boost, ahead of their today’s tricky Mainland Premier League battle against Biashara United at Karume Stadium in Musoma. Yanga received the cash from Yono Auction Mart yesterday, whose Board Chairman and Director Stanley Kevela handed it over to newly elected club Vice-Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela. Receiving the cash, Mwakalebela said that the support was enormous to help run various activities at the club, which is facing financial difficulties at the moment. “We really appreciate this support from Kevela…it has come at the right time as we all know that the club is facing financial hardship at the moment. Kevela is a true Yanga fanatic and despite missing a post at the last Sunday’s election he is still open to continue supporting the club he loves,” said Mwakalebela. Mwakalebela insisted that Kevela’s support also signifies that all camps that were formed during the election campaign have been buried and the focus is now to rebuild the club, which has rich history and records in the country. The former Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) General Secretary also called on club members and fans as well as other individuals, institutions and companies to support the club financially. He promised that the new leadership will ensure that the technical staff is fully supported to recruit quality players for next season’s top flight campaign. On his side Kevela, who was contesting for the vice-chairman post but lost to Mwakalebela, congratulated the new leadership, saying it was important to start a new chapter at the club and help the team excel next season. Kevela called on all those who lost at Sunday’s election to support the newly elected leadership, insisting that harmony is the most important ingredient Yanga need currently, to recover from the turbulent situation the team was going through at the moment. Yanga have already arrived in Musoma ahead of the today’s battle. It will be tricky assignment for Yanga because they are facing opponents, who are battling to avoid relegation from the top flight football. Currently placed second of the log on 80 points from 34 matches, Yanga will be hoping for a victory and pray that league leaders Simba on 81 points from 31 outings drop points in their today’s encounter against Kagera Sugar, for the Mwinyi Zahera charges to reclaim the top spot. The Jangwani Street outfits eye to recover from a 2-0 nosedive at the hands of Lipuli FC in the semifinals clash of the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) at Samora Stadium last Monday. The slump was hard to swallow for Yanga since it deprived their only real chance of claiming silverware this season bearing in mind that their hopes to lift the league title are slim. Similarly, Biashara United who sit on 18th slot with 37 points from 33 games are also in demand of three points as one way to guarantee their stay in the league next season. They have six must win matches to keep their hopes of survival in the league alive.