PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has suspended seven directors from the National Irrigation Commission (NIC) including the acting Managing Director to give room for investigations related to various accusations against them. The premier has also ordered for serious disciplinary measures against 21 officials for poor performance in supervising various projects that are being implemented under the commission. He announced the decision during the commission’s leaders meeting, which took place yesterday in Dodoma. It was also attended by ministers, deputy ministers and permanent secretaries from different ministries. “The Controller and Audit General (CAG) must immediately initiate the auditing of the commission; we want to know who was involved in the embezzlement of public funds. We want to be fair on this, but legal and disciplinary actions will be taken against those who will be implicated in the scandal,” he explained. He said the government decided to act after noting poor performance in implementing various development projects under the commission as well as embezzlement of public funds, corruption accusations, nepotism and lack of seriousness. “We are going to take serious action against those who sabotage irrigation projects,” he said. According to the PM, the irrigation farming sector was not doing well and that the government had been doing everything in its capacity to boost it but some officials didn’t support the initiatives. “Many projects under this commission are not doing well; we want to see changes in this area. The officials have been conducting seminars, workshops and meetings instead of focusing on boosting the irrigation sector in the country,” he said. He said the commission has failed to supervise 10 projects in different parts of the country. He mentioned some of the projects as PAGE 2 Luiche, which has 3,000 acres for irrigation. Meanwhile, the premier has ordered the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Japhet Hasunga, to finalise the process of appointing members of the board for the commission. He also ordered the minister to make sure that the board of directors effectively supervised all irrigation schemes that had been initiated in previous years. On his part, Minister for Water, Prof Makame Mbarawa, said many irrigation projects failed because they were built below required standards.