…says the country’s economy is picking up PRESIDENT John Magufuli has asked the international community to lift economic sanctions against Zimbabwe, saying the country’s economy is progressing well. “And, the economic sanctions are only hurting the ordinary people of Zimbabwe, especially women and children…it’s high time the international community lifted the sanctions,” said President Magufuli who arrived in Harare on Tuesday for a twoday official visit. The visiting leader commended his host, President Emerson Mnangagwa, saying during the short period of his leadership, the Zimbabwean economy is improving, currently growing at 3.5 per cent, with projections indicating that it will grow by 4.2 per cent next year and 4.4 per cent thereafter. Dr Magufuli argued that Zimbabwe’s economy has already registered impressive growth since President Mnangagwa took over and implored the west to lift the sanctions to enable the country realise its full potential. “Allow me, Your Excellency, to commend you for the efforts you are making to revive the economy and bring about social economic development and transformation in your great country. Indeed, since you took over office, Zimbabwe has recorded important milestones—investments have increased and the fiscal deficit is on the decline,” said the visiting Dr Magufuli, assuring the Southern nation that Tanzania is ready to sell 700,000 metric tonnes of maize to offset food shortage in Zimbabwe. President Magufuli made the assurance shortly after meeting President Mnangagwa at the excess of 3.3 million tonnes. During the meeting, Dr Magufuli invited Zimbabwe to copy a leaf from Tanzania on how to impart patriotism, gallantry and discipline to the young generation through the National Service, Jeshi la Kujenga Taifa (JKT), in Kiswahili. But, the visiting leader was displeased by failure of the Joint Permanent Commission (JPC) between Tanzania and Zimbabwe to meet since 1998, impeding economic relations between the two countries. “Tanzania will continue to be a true friend of Zimbabwe and we are ready to provide the country with teachers and materials to teach Kiswahili in schools and institutions of higher learning,” Dr Magufuli pledged, urging businesspeople and investors from Tanzania and Zimbabwe to fully utilise available opportunities to boost trade volume between Dar es Salaam and Harare which currently stands at just 22.6 billion US dollars, annually. President Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe is ready to cooperate with Tanzania in new areas of cooperation agreed by top officials from the two countries. The two countries, which are members of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), have agreed on new areas of cooperation, including aviation, tourism and exchange of expertise in agriculture, animal husbandry and fishing. It was also agreed during the meeting that Zimbabwe will start using Mtwara port in southern Tanzania to transport some of its cargo. Dr Magufuli expressed optimism on economic boom and transformation of the Zimbabwean economy on the back of practical measures that President Mnangagwa is championing. He said it was high time the bilateral relations between the two countries were transformed from political to economical. The two leaders later held discussions on the best way to achieve the transformation. “Our two countries have therefore agreed to consolidate our economic cooperation to give practical meaning to our political cooperation. To this end we have agreed to increase trade and promote investment flow between us. We have also agreed to share experiences and best practices in the management and utilisation of our natural resources,” he said. President Mnangagwa appreciated Tanzania’s sympathy, saying it was the first country to assist Zimbabwe in the wake of Cyclone Idai that ravaged the country in March, this year, killing over 300 people, displacing others and destroying properties. President Mnangagwa, several cabinet ministers, diplomats accredited to Zimbabwe and senior government officials welcomed Dr Magufuli at Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport. President Magufuli was accompanied by CCM Vice- Chairman (Mainland) Philip Mangula and Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Prof Palamagamba Kabudi. The Tanzanian entourage also included CCM’s National Executive Committee member Makongoro Nyerere who is also the son of the founding Father of Tanzania Mwalimu Julius Nyerere