ALL producers and importers of alcoholic and soft drinks as well as cigarettes and bottled water have to start using electronic tax stamps (ETS) system effective June 15, this year. The system roll-out follows the successes and increased revenue collections, which were recorded during the first phase of ETS management system for alcoholic drinks and cigarettes which kicked-off in January 15, this year. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) is considering recommending rolling out the technology to other products like paints and perfumes, among others, to boost revenues and curb cheating in taxes. TRA Director of Tax Payer Services and Education, Richard Kayombo (pictured) told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that 45 e-machines for ETS have been installed at 19 carbonated drinks and bottled water factories ready for the second and final phase. The tax collector had in January this year rolled out the first phase of ETS for alcoholic drinks and cigarettes and put to an end the use of physical paper stamps whose use has been linked to tax evasion and counterfeiting. A Swiss firm Société Industrielleet Commerciale de Produits Alimentaires (SICPA SA) through its subsidiary SICPA Tanzania won the contract to supply and install the system for TRA. The company has already undertaken similar projects in various countries, including Kenya, Morocco, Malaysia, Brazil, Albania, Turkey and Uganda. Finance and Planning Minister, Dr Philip Mpango told the National Assembly in June, last year, that the new technology is part of plans by the government to raise money for infrastructure developments. The ETS system will enable TRA to track on real time the volume of all alcoholic, carbonated drinks and cigarettes produced in respective production lines and ultimately compute requisite taxes due. Mr Kayombo explained during the interview yesterday that execution of the first phase recorded significant increase in revenue collections. Based on tax returns filled by producers of excisable products, revenue collections increased to 28.782 billion between January and April, 2019, compared to 24.735 billion during the corresponding period in 2018, this translates to an increase of 16 per cent,” he explained. During the first phase, which kicked off on January 15, 2019, a total of 62 producers and importers were enrolled for the system, with 44 e-machines having been fitted in 23 factories. The factories include all seven brewing plants under Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) and Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL), four cigarette producers— Tanzania Cigarette Company Limited (TCC), Mastermind Tobacco Tanzania, Sino Cigarette Company and Mansoor Industries Limited. The list also include 12 wine and spirit producers including NyatiSpirtz, Tanzania Distilleries Limited (Konyagi), East African Spirits, Mega Beverages Limited, KiboSpirtz, Blue Nile Distilleries, Banana Investment Limited and CETAWICO, among others. Mr Kayombo was highly positive that revenues will increase even more as many industries and importers embrace the technology. According to Mr Kayombo, the state-of-the art technology enables TRA to compute on real time excise duty and other related taxes like Value Added Tax (VAT) and corporate income tax, sealing chances of cheating. “It is also aimed at protecting consumers against substandard goods and protecting domestic manufacturers against illegal imports,” he explained. Even with the achievement of the system, there are still some challenges in rolling out the technology in some small and medium- scale factories whose production lines are not fully automated.