THE chase is still on, as Simba had to come from a goal down to beat Mbeya City 2-1 at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya yesterday, to intensify tense Mainland Premier League title race. Second half goals by Jonas Mkude and Meddie Kagere, neautralised Iddi Selemani’s first half opener for Mbeya City in an unfriendly pitch. Placed second, the defending champions have reduced points gap with the league leaders Young Africans to only five and they have five matches in hand compared to Yanga. The Reds are now on 75 points from 29 outings. It was not an easy maximum-point for Simba, as they were made to toil by a decent and determined Mbeya City performance. Mbeya City were the better side from the kickoff, dictating terms as Simba struggled with the slippery pitch. It followed heavy rains that pounded the city an hour before the kickoff. Both sets of players were avoiding the centre of the pitch which was waterlogged and this largely affected Simba’s movements, whose football philosophy largely depends on the display at the middle of the pack. Just three minutes from the start, Mbeya City skipper, Mohamed Samatta’s long range shot was palmed away by agile Deogratius Munishi. Simba failed to keep composure in their defence, allowing the host to frequently launch forays in their territory in the early opening exchanges. No wonder, Mbeya City took the lead in the 22nd minute, when Selemani easily beat his marker Paul Bukaba and found a low angle, which left keeper Munishi sprawling on the murky turf helplessly. It was a clever shot by Selemani, who snatched his eighth goal of the campaign. Simba were forced to make changes in the 29th minute, when defender Bukaba had to be stretched off after sustaining injury and was replaced by Erasto Nyoni, who stabilised the defence. However, the host continued to be a better side and looked a more likely side to score the second, while Simba failed to create clear cut chances with Kagere lacking support up front, where he partnered Mohamed Ibrahim. Mbeya City’s Samatta ought to have doubled the lead in the 37th minute but his shot inside the box went off target. After the break, Coach Patrick Ausemms deployed deadly striker, Emmanuel Okwi for Mo Ibrahim and the Uganda striker completely changed the pattern of play, as Simba mounted pressure and dominated almost every department. In the 50th minute, referee Hussein Athuman made a ridiculous decision, denying Simba what looked to be a clear penalty, when Okwi was clearly sandwiched before being bundled down by two defenders inside the box but the match official ruled it out. Pressure was mounting for Simba as time ticked bye. In the 65th minute, Mkude headed wide a set piece by Nicholas Gyan but two minutes later, the midfielder amended his mistakes and netted an equaliser, heading home another set piece by Gyan. Simba were on ascendency and in the 69th minute, Okwi fired wide, after he raced clear to a through pass from Hassan Dilunga. In the 79th minute, Said Ndemla’s screamer narrowly missed the target. He pounced on rebound from an initial Okwi’s long range shot that was parried off by keeper Owen Chaima. With hundreds of fans who packed the venue to the brim expecting the match to end in a 1-1 draw, Simba snatched the winner in the 84th minute through Kagere. The deadly striker flicked home a set piece by Mohamed Hussein for his 17th goal of the campaign to lead the ‘Golden Boot’ race. Mwadui FC’s Salim Aiyee and Heritier Makambo of Yanga are tied on second with 16 goals each. In another league matches which were held yesterday, Singida United beat Mtibwa Sugar 2-1 at Namfua Stadium in Singida, while Alliance FC were held to a 2-2 draw by visitors Kagera Sugar in Mwanza. Struggling Ruvu Shooting thrashed their fellow army men JKT Tanzania 3-1 at the Mabatini Mlandizi ground in Coast region.