UMBRO is pleased to announce it has entered into a new ball partnership agreement with the CAF. The partnership will see the iconic sports brand become the exclusive ball supplier for the Total Africa Cup of Nations 2019 in Egypt. The tournament will be played for the first time throughout June and July with 24 nations competing. As the exclusive ball partner, Umbro will supply the CAF with the top-level Neo Pro ball. FIFA certified to be used at the highest level of the game, the Neo Pro features a textured Teijin Microfibre outer casing for durability, accuracy and true flight dependability. It also has a five-layer construction with a latex bladder for a consistent bounce, and a hand-stitched 14-panel design with sealed seams to ensure zero water absorption. “The Neo Pro ball is beautifully designed. The bounce is consistent, and the textured outer casing gives you excellent feel and accuracy. I’m excited to be a part of the Africa Cup of Nations 2019 and can’t wait to use the new ball at the tournament” said Darren Keet, South African National Team Goalkeeper and Umbro sponsored player. Keeping up with a longstanding tradition of supplying top level balls to major tournaments around the world, Umbro has most recently supplied the Coupe de la Ligue ball in France and the official ball for the Liga Nacional de Futsal in Brazil. “We couldn’t be prouder and more honoured to have been selected by CAF as the official supplier of the match ball for the Total Africa Cup of Nations 2019. Football is the biggest sport in Africa and as an authentic sports brand deeply rooted in football, we believe this partnership is a perfect match. Moreover, the tournament being played in Egypt will further reinforce Umbro’s brand presence in the country. Fans will be able to purchase the official replica ball in selected sports stores in Egypt and UAE”, said Tom Grzelak, Head of Brand at Umbro Middle East and Egypt. About Umbro Wherever there is Football, there is Umbro - since 1924. We provide apparel, footwear and equipment for all players and fans of the game - and also for those inspired by the vibrant culture surrounding Football. We have partnered up with exciting designers to deliver unique collaborations celebrating the DNA of our brand - these include Christopher Raeburn, Henry Holland, SweetSKTBS, Patta, Vetements and Off White. Around the world we sponsor more than 120 clubs including teams including Everton, West Ham United, AFC Bournemouth and Huddersfield Town (English Premier League); FC Schalke 04, Werder Bremen and 1. FC Nürnberg (German Bundesliga); PSV Eindhoven (Dutch Eredivisie); SM Caen (French Ligue 1); Heart of Midlothian (Scottish Premiership); Girona (Spanish La Liga); Newell’s Old Boys (Argentinean Primera Division); Santos, Grêmio, Cruzeiro and Chapecoense (Brazilian Série A); Independiente Santa Fe (Colombian Primera A); Nacional (Uruguayan Primera División); Herediano (Costa Rican Liga FPD); FC Tokyo and Gamba Osaka (Japanese J1) and Seongnam FC (South Korea); Al Ahly SC (Egyptian Premier League) and Al-Ahli Saudi Football Club (Saudi Pro League).