AZAM delayed Simba title party after forcing them to a barren draw in their tense Premier L eague match at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Simba needed to win three matches including the yesterday’s clash with Azam to grab the silverware for the second time in a row. Still, the draw awarded both teams a point, thus making Simba continue to claim the league helm with 82 points, two points superior to their traditional rivals Young Africans with 80 points. It was Simba’s 33rd match, hence they have five matches in hand prior to the league climax. To Azam, the draw just strengthened their third position with 69 points. Simba, who looked for the victory seriously, seemed to be deeply affected by the results due to the fact that their two-point lead can be easily stopped by Yanga if they win against Ruvu Shooting today. Simba controlled the game in most of the period and managed to create more scoring chances than their opponents. Simba could have sealed a clean victory only they were denied by efficient Azam defence commanded by Bruce Kangwa, Yakubu Mohammed and Aggrey Morris and goalkeeper Razak Abalora. Emanuel Okwi, Meddie Kagere, Cletous Chama and Haruna Niyonzima attacked Azam goal menacingly in the both halves, it was very unfortunate that none of their efforts paid off dividends. No goal was scored until the end of the first 45 minutes. The second half saw Azam coming back strongly, relying much on their speedy Donald Ngoma and Obrey Chirwa upfront. The duo, however, could shake Simba defence led by Yusuf Mlipili, Mohamed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni and custodian Aishi Manula. The last ten minutes saw Azam being forced to defend while occasionally staging counter attacks. Simba coach Patrick Aussems made substitution in the 71st minute when called in John Bocco for James Kotei in a move that seemed to strengthen the attacking line. It was in this time when Simba miraculously survived a big scare from Chirwa who rounded three defenders and fired a low shot, but keeper Manula was on alert and managed to collect it. Coastal Union defeated Mtibwa Sugar 1-0 at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga. The win was a good consolation to Tanga residents whose team lost 8-1 to Simba in their last week encounter in Dar es Salaam. KMC defeated Tanzania Prisons 1-0 in another league game held yesterday at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. Omar Ramadhan scored the winner for the newly promoted KMC in the 61st minute. Lines up Simba SC: Aishi Manula, Nicholas Gyan, Mohammed Hussein ‘Tshabalala’, Yussuf Mlipili, Erasto Nyoni, James Kotei/John Bocco (79th), Haruna Niyonzima, Jonas Mkude, Meddie Kagere, Emmanuel Okwi and Clatous Chama. Azam FC: Razack Abalora, Nickolas Wadada, Bruce Kangwa, Yakubu Mohammed, Aggrey Morris, Stephan Kingue, Joseph Mahundi, Frank Domayo, Obrey Chirwa, Donald Ngoma and Ramadhan Singano/Daniel Lyanga (53th).