IN efforts to address long time challenges, the government has prepared guidelines for allocation of hunting blocks through auctioning, the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangala revealed yesterday. Dr Kigwangala told the Parliament here yesterday that the first electronic auctioning of the hunting blocks will be on June 10, this year, to avert fears of misconduct and give fairness to all concerned parties. He said the auctioning of the hunting blocks for in-creased competitiveness in the industry will be open to all interested parties from within and outside the country, with 26-blocks on the cards. “Electronic hunting blocks auctioning will give opportunity for hunting companies, both local and foreign, to compete in a fair ground as there will be transparency and issues of good governance adherence” said Dr Kigwangala. He observed that of late, the country tourism hunting has been facing a number of challenges, resulting in almost 50 per cent of hunting blocks being returned by the owners. Following the trend, Dr Kigwangala told the Parliament here yesterday when tabling his 120.2bn/- budget estimates as recurrent and expenditure for 2019/20, that the government had to intervene. He outlined some of the measures taken to harmonise the situation as forming a special task force to improve the rules and regulations of tourism hunting and allocation of hunting blocks through auctioning. “The task force recommendations has prompted the ministry to take a number of needed measures, including deleting some of the fees and levies of professional hunters so that they bring in more hunters” said the Minister. He said this has been possible in collaboration with game hunting and tourism hunting stakeholders where they are reviewing the 2015 Hunting Regulations. The most commonly hunted species in the country are buffalo, impala, hartebeest, wildebeest, warthog, zebra, waterbuck, hippo, crocodile and eland, where Dr Kigwangala said they are planning to increase the number of animals which will be on offer. Tabling, he said they will also minimize fees depending on the market demand and reduce the hunting blocks classes from five to three and increasing the hunting blocks term from five to ten years for class one and two blocks. He told the Parliament that among others, the changes and amendments are intended to bring about increased revenue generation as well as giving hunters room to hunt more for less. He said the government has also lifted the ban on hunting that had been imposed in October 2015 following abuse and misuse of hunting permits. Hunting will now be allowed for Tanzanian citizens and holders of foreign residence permits in specified game reserves, specifically for game meat and trophies.