EVEN with the recent recruitment of 4,549 new teachers by the government, there is still a shortage of 80,000 teachers in public primary and secondary schools across the country, the National Assembly heard on Wednesday. A total of 3,089 out of the 4,549 teachers will be deployed in public primary schools while 1,460 will be posted to secondary schools. Deputy Minister in the President’s Office, (Regional Administration and Local Governments-Education), Mr Mwita Waitara, told the House that the country faces a shortage of 66,000 and 14,000 teachers for primary and secondary schools, respectively. Responding to a supplementary question by Mwanga MP, Prof Jumanne Maghembe (CCM), the Deputy Minister assured lawmakers here that the government is determined to employ more teachers, particularly for mathematics and science subjects, to curb the shortage. Mr Waitara explained further that the recently employed 4,549 teachers are meant to replace educators who had retired, died or transferred to other working stations, adding that the government will continue to employ more teachers through the usual annual recruitment in the public service. He also instructed local government authorities to balance labour force in their respective areas by transferring teachers from urban centers to rural areas. “There are some urban centers with many teachers, and yet other areas in the countryside are short of teaching staff,” he stated. Shortly after Prof Maghembe had posed the question, parliamentarians from across the political divide, including Speaker of the National Assembly, Job Ndugai, pressed the government to employ more teachers in their constituencies. According to Mr Waitara, there are about 16,000 and 4,000 public primary and secondary schools countrywide, stating that Mwanga District has 110 primary schools with 590 teachers and a shortage of 384 educators. The Deputy Minister assured the Mwanga MP that out of the new recruits, 26 teachers, including 21 for primary and five secondary schools have been posted to the district.