ABOUT 70 per cent of people owning land in Tanzania feel tenure secure, a new survey has established. They include those with formal and without formal documents, with the report saying the figure is slightly better than global and regional averages. The recently-launched 2018 Baseline Prindex Results on Survey for Assessing Property Rights and Tenure Security of Land and Settlements in Tanzania, however, argues that 74 per cent of those with formal documents feel tenure secure while 65 per cent of those without formal documents feel secure. The survey was conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in collaboration with the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and the Global Land Alliance Inc. The survey has been under development since late 2015 and the primary goal of Prindex is to build a global movement around land policy and entrepreneurship that will enhance property rights and help achieve Sustainable Development Goal number 1.4.2. “These data would help the ministry because they would guide us when doing land planning and formulation of policies,” Deputy Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Ms Angelina Mabula, commented during the launch of the report in Dodoma. She was optimistic that the percentage of people with formal documents for land ownership would possibly rise if the survey would have been done this year since currently the government conducts an exercise to map each piece of land countrywide and provide residence permits and title deeds to owners. The rationale for doing this survey for the SDG was because lack of data on the basics of tenure security in the land and property sector are longstanding and widespread, contributing to stagnant outcomes for high level objectives. Also individual-level perceptions provide insights on women’s property rights and widespread perception data opens up new dimensions for targeting, advocacy and engagement, the report says. “Country coverage and methodology on perceptions needs to be in place to support the SDG goals. Even if SDG re-classification is not achieved, perception methodology is a major contribution for globally comparable statistics,” the report argues. Tanzania becomes one of the 15 countries that had conducted such survey globally, out of which nine are in Sub- Saharan Africa. The report says Tanzania is at 4th position among nine countries in Sub-Saharan Africa for its people feeling tenure secure. However, the report says tenure insecurity was considerably higher among renters and those staying with permission than among owners. Whereas 74 per cent of owners felt tenure secure, only 47 per cent of renters and 64 per cent of those with permission felt tenure secure.