CRDB Bank has made record profit in the first quarter of this year thanks to improved business efficiency and cost reduction measures. The bank, one of two largest in the country, posted a profit growth after tax by 216 per cent to reach 30.7bn/- from 9.73bn/- in previous quarter last year. This is half of the entire lender’s profit made last year. The report looks to have stimulated its share prices at the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange which increased from 125/- per share to 130/- on Tuesday. CRDB Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Abdulmajid Nsekela said the strong performance in Q 1 was buoyed by improved business and earnings. “This is the highest jump in quarter one of the bank’s financial history, compared to corresponding quarters in previous years,” Mr Nsekela said on the sidelines of the CRDB Business Forum on Tuesday. He added that the performance was an indicator of the lender’s progressive strategy to achieve operational excellence through building a sustainable business model, which guarantees high returns for investors and shareholders. “The performance is balanced across all business pillars and shows that the strategies we are implementing are moving the Group in the right direction,” Mr Nsekela said. The bank’s profitability was underpinned by 29 per cent higher drop in cost of funds, and well-maintained loan quality portfolio which led to growth of interest income by 11 per cent over the corresponding period last year. The lender’s net interest income has increased by 27.6 per cent during the same period. “It is quite exciting and energising that my journey with the bank has started on a positive note and with quite a notable achievement,” said the CEO. The bank has put in place digital initiatives targeted at transforming the Group’s investments so as to optimise returns. Tanzania Securities said in a statement issued late Tuesday that “CRDB bank posted wonderful results” in Q1 “It is noteworthy that the bank’s branches… .This could be explained that the bank shut down the nonperforming branches and hence we should expect better performance in the future,” Tanzania Securities statement indicates. The statement said further that the bank’s NPLs which is at 8.8 per cent “is encouraging”, given is lower than the 13.9 per cent in two years ago and even lower than the banking sector average of about 11.3 per cent. “… These first quarter results, although still early give us the confidence to reiterate our position that it is now the right time to buy CRDB shares,” the statement said. Orbit Securities Companies Executive Officer Juventus Simon said the results were encouraging and the bank share on Tuesday climbed slightly to 130/- from 125/-. “The results are good… we are confident the bank will end the year on a stronger point,” Mr Simon told the ‘Daily News’. The bank posted an increase of 27.6 per cent for net interest income 122.8bn/- at the end of Q 1 from 96.2bn/- similar period last year. Also non-interest income increased by 18.7 per cent to 60.2bn/- compared to 50.7bn/- for the first quarter last year. The bank’s efficiency ratio in Q 1 this year was 62.0 per cent compared to 68.1 per cent for the first quarter previous year. The lender Return on Average (ROE) shareholder’s funds increased to 15.7 per cent from 4.9 per cent while the return on average total assets stood at 2.9 per cent from 1.0 per cent. The bank’s branches were reduced from 260 to 237.