TWO days after the country marked the 23rd anniversary since the marine tragic accident in Lake Victoria involving MV Bukoba, the government has come up with a new system to curb overload in water bodies and on land. Under the Integrated Infrastructure Management System (IIMS), special electronic gadgets will be installed in marine vessels such as ships and ferries to check overload. Such electronic gadgets with sensors will be able to send signals or alarms to the control room when overloading vessels, alerting operators to take action immediately before they are allowed to leave. The modus operandi of the gadgets will be more or less similar to those installed in elevators. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Elius Mwakalinga (pictured) said this in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the commemoration of Engineering Technicians Day 2019, organised by the Engineers Registration Board (ERB). According to Mr Mwakalinga, the implementation of the project will start in the next financial year. He insisted that the system would also be applicable on roads and airports. He said despite having weighbridges on major highways, electronicgadgets would also be installed in some selected bridges to curb overload, including checking unauthorised goods from passing the area. “We are committed to saving people’s lives besides taking legal action against the perpetrators, whose acts claim innocent lives,” he noted. Tanzania has suffered severe blows from marine accidents, most of which are attributed to overload. Besides funding a new system, part of the ministry’s budget for the coming financial year is also set for building capacity to various professionals in the construction andtransport sector, as well as implementing labour-based contracts for all development projects in the country. The PS clarified that a section on labour-based contracts directed that at least 30 per cent of available funds for development projects should be taken by local subcontractors. “But despite all these government efforts, what is most important is that all graduate technicians should be registered with the board. Not only because it is an offence to engage in any technical operations without being registered, but registration will give you an opportunity to be involved in big projects,” he said. Mr Mwakalinga was further quoted as saying that, in efforts to make local technicians more competent, the ministry would also intensifymonitoring activities to ensure any contractor had an opportunity to engage in big projects. Earlier, ERB Chairperson, Ninatubu Lema told participants that Tanzania had a shortage of technicians to meet the standard ratio, as per International Labour Organisation (ILO) directives. According to him, the ratio is 1:5:25, meaning that a single engineer should have five technicians and 25 artisans. “Unfortunately, the situation is different in our country as there are only 1,112 registered technicians against 25,263 engineers. There is a need to brainstorm the techniques of having many more technicians, including an increase in college and university enrolment,” he said.