Many have heard the word ‘fistula’, but most do not know what fistula is exactly. In medical terms, an obstetric fistula is caused by prolonged obstructed labor, leaving a woman incontinent of urine or feces or both. There are still many people who still don't know that fistula can be treated. Effort should be made to make sure that people with fistula are not stigmatized, because it is a sickness just like any other. Every year on the 23rd of May, Tanzania joins the rest of the world in campaigns to end obstetric fistula. Despite this noble move, there is still need to spread awareness and education to the public in order to strengthen the area of understanding and the action in ending the problem. Rehema Emmanuel, a resident of Bunda, Mara region who was married at an early age, harboured dreams of achieving big in her life. In 1996, she became pregnant and got her first child, and in 1998 she gave birth to her second child. The following year she was forced to go to hospital after signs of fistula appeared. For those who know the challenges linked to fistula, they will know that to be stigmatized does not come as a surprise. She was rejected and shunned by her family,and the most painful was the rejection from her husband. “I experienced a lot of pain in all those years that l had fistula, which made my husband to abandon me and marry another woman. My family was not there to comfort me," she says with tears in her eyes. She felt confused, and at some point she believed that she had been bewitched. When she received a message informing her that CCBRT offered free treatment for fistula, she felt like a miracle was about to happen. “I thank the doctors and nurses and all donors and our government for campaigning for women like us who are going through this challenge,” She said. Before this miracle happened, Rehema had lived with fistula for 15 years. She happily says that she will be a good ambassador to her fellow women in Bunda so that they can take early  precaution after seeing early symptoms after delivery. Rehema can now afford a smile again, which has been lost for years. She says the challenges which many women face in fistula is caused by many factors, including myth, and the fact that many  health centers are far, which makes it difficult for women to access treament. A nurse at CCBRT, Ms Teodora Milinga, says many women who come to the hospital with fistula are unhappy, but after explaining to them that the problem can be treated, they regain hope. According to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) report, over 800 women in the world lose their lives every day due to pregnancy complications. UNFPA report further indicates that over two million women are living with fistula worldwide, especially in southern Sahara. CCBRT Chief Executive Officer  Brenda Msangi   said  Many women with fistula problem  have limited financial capacity,which makes it difficult for them to afford the cost of transport to the hospital, food and accommodation. 