IT is a doomsday for the Mainland Premier League’s weak operators, as the league season kicks its last matches in various venues today. Four league giants; Simba, Young Africans, Azam and Mtibwa Sugar will be playing their pride restoration matches as all 20 teams will be in action. It will end a closely contested affair in both title race and relegation fight as until today more than ten are not sure of their stay in the top flight league, something the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) President, Wallace Karia described it as a huge success despite admitting about shortfalls in refereeing. He said the federation will come up with strict measures to scrutinize referees in the upcoming season such that those who will fail to meet TFF criteria will be removed from the list. Simba SC have managed to defend the league title successfully after reaching 92 points which can never be reached by any other team in the league with only one match to go. This means Simba who face fifth place occupants Mtibwa Sugar just to finish the league schedule since any outcome of the game will have no impact as far as celebration party for attaining their 20th championship is concerned. Their opponents Mtibwa Sugar who have 49 points are already safe from relegation and will reappear in the contest next season. Young Africans are runners up with 86 points and could hit 89 points if they manage to win today's big fixture against third placed Azam FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Azam have 72 points as such a win or loss will not affect table standings of these two teams other than changes in bagged points. Moreover, the Ice cream makers eyes to reverse the 1-0 defeat they suffered in the first round of the league. So far, according to the standings, only seven teams are safe and will play their games today without panic. These are Simba (92), Yanga (86), Azam (72), KMC (52), Mtibwa Sugar (49), Lipuli (49) and Ndanda (48). All the other teams have to play with lungs out to ensure survival next term apart from African Lyon who have been relegated. At the moment, four teams which sit in the danger red zone of the table are 17th placed Kagera Sugar (43), Ruvu Shooting who occupies 18th slot with 42 points, Mwadui FC are 19th on the ladder with 41 points whereas already relegated African Lyon are at the base with 22 points in hand. As far as today matches are known, Kagera Sugar will be away taking on JKT Tanzania who have 44 points to occupy 13th place while Ruvu Shooting will host 9th placed Alliance who have 47 points respectively. Shinyanga based Mwadui FC will entertain 7th place occupants Ndanda who have amassed 48 points whereas African Lyon host 4th placed KMC who have garnered 52 points. Here, it means both points and the number of goals scored as well as conceded will determine which teams will play in the next season. On the other hand, newly promoted Polisi Tanzania and Namungo FC are all set to compete in the forthcoming league season after doing well in the First Division League (FDL).