ATTORNEY General (AG) office has completed review of contracts of 11 companies engaged in oil and gas sub sector and it’s now examining the best financial and economic model for the country. Debating the ministry of energy budget estimates for the 2019/2020 fiscal year, AG Adelardus Kilangi told the National Assembly here yesterday that his office had formed a team of experts from various ministries to review the contracts following recommendations by the Parliamentary Select Committee. Last year, the Speaker Job Ndugai formed committee pointed out that Tanzania is losing billions of shillings in reported bogus Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs), sabotage and outright fraud in oil and gas sub sector. It advised the government to re-draft oil and gas contracts and not to renew contract with Songas Company, which will expire in 2024, for what the committee described as an ‘unfair deal’. Submitting the committee’s findings to Speaker Ndugai in May, 2018 in Dodoma, Chairman of the Select Committee, Dustan Kitandula (Mkinga— CCM) said renegotiating of contracts with all companies engaged in oil and gas sector in the country was inevitable because under the existing PSAs, Tanzania will not benefit from its natural resources. Mr Kitandula said his committee had reviewed contracts of 11 companies engaged in oil and gas sector, out of which three companies were fully operational while eight others were still in exploration process. He mentioned the three companies that were fully operational as Pan African Energy, Mnazi Bay and Kili One North. He said the committee discovered most of the PSAs between the government and the offshore companies provide loopholes for the companies to evade tax, levies and royalties payable to the government. The committee recommended for the review of PSAs, contract redrafting and rechecking of bilateral investment treaties because they are being misused. The task to review the contracts was entrusted on the AG office and Dr Kilangi said yesterday that the task had been completed. “We have completed reviewing the contracts after building the capacity of the team formed by experts from various ministries. Currently, the team is looking at financial and economic modeling used in PSAs to determine the best for the country,” he told the House.