Reporter In a move to support the fifth phase government to relocate to the capital city of Dodoma, Dawoodi Bohra community has begun to shift some of its businesses to Dodoma. This has been revealed by Dawoodi Bohra Vice-Chairperson Zainuddin Adamjee with his delegation during their meeting with Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi. Such a move comes following President Magufuli invited members of the Da woodi Bohra community from across the world to come and invest in Tanzania in gas and oil, fisheries, agriculture, forestry, livestock and minerals. President Magufuli made the appeal during his address to the Dawoodi Bohra community during the community’s religious ceremony in September 2016 in Tanzania. The Head of State banked on the potential market in the East African Community (EAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) with the population of 400 million people. On that occasion President Magufuli thanked clerics for picking Tanzania as an area to mark their important day when more than 30,000 members of the Bohra community from around the world, including their supreme leader, His Highness Dr Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin Saheb, gathered for the ceremony. The vice-chairman of the community commended Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation efforts by ensuring they encouraged investors to come and invest in Tanzania. “The move will make easier for the country to achieve its vision of becoming a middle- income economy by 2025. Our community has already invested in the construction of a hospital in Dar es Salaam,” he noted. For his part, Prof Kabudi expressed his gratitude to the community for cooperation and support and urged them to keep encouraging other community members in the world to invest in Tanzania, especially in the industrial sector. The Ashara Mubaraka is the first 10 days of Moharram, which marks the martyrdom of Imam Husain, the grandson of Prophet Mohammed that took place 14 centuries ago. The relationship between Tanzania and the Bohra community has existed for over 200 years. The Dawoodi Bohra community is spread over on five continents with the largest number of Bohras found in India and Pakistan, although there are also significant communities existing in the Middle East, Yemen, East Africa, Madagascar, Sri Lanka, North America, France and the United Kingdom.