WITH sexual abuse incidents tend to be persisting in Zanzibar, the public has been urged to cooperate with authorities to name perpetrators and appear as witnesses in Courts to provide evidence. The appeal was made here yesterday by Tanzania Media Women’s Association, Zanzibar (TAMWA) Zanzibar Director Dr Mzuri Issa, adding that: “In three years period (2016–2019) more than 17 cases of rape and killing of girls/women have been reported, but untill today verdicts have not been passed, because the culprits are unknown.” She said that TAMWA that has been at the forefront of the crusade on the Isles was recalling a number of rape incidents and killing of rape victims in the past four years. “However a claim of gang rape case that happened last year in November at Bungi, Unguja Central District to a 35 years old woman was different, because the culprits are known and are in custody and their case is ongoing,” said Dr Issa. She said the arrest of the suspected gang rape at Bungi was a development in justice seeking to safeguard value and respect of women and children. Unfortunately, she said in that same case, some victims failed to appear in court to provide evidence, adding that “therefore the case proceeding is at stake.” “According to media report on 6 May, 2019, Defense Attorney Juma Kumba argued that the victim failed to be present in court, which compelled the court to provide warrant arrest to the witness/victim or the case should be dismissed, because no sufficient evidence has been submitted,” noted Dr Issa. She said that should the case be dismissed it would be a big blow to the human rights defenders and the society at large because justice would not be prevail. “It would disappoint the initiatives to safeguard vulnerable group (women and children). We believe that the society would make sure that May 27 the witness would be brought to court and advised to present her testimony in order for the justice to take its course,” added the director. In another development, Dr Issa urged instruments of justice including Magistrate to understand that Gender Based Violence (GBV), victims face physical and psychological trauma, hence a close follow up should be put in place for them to get justice. In a sexual crime in January this year in the Island, a girl was found dead at Kisauni, Unguja West region after being gang raped.