HIGH hopes were revived at Young Africans following the election of the former Taifa Stars Coach Dr Mshindo Msolla and the former head of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) on Sunday evening. Msolla was elected the chairman after beating his closest challenger Dr Jonas Benedict Toboroha by far in the general election conducted at Oysterbay Police Officers’ Mess in the city. Msolla won by a landslide, pocketing 1,276 votes against only 60 votes garnered by Tiboroha, who formerly served as a sectretary general in the ended management. Also won by a landslide was Mwakalebela, who previously served the TFF as the Secretary general. Mwakelebela carved 1,206 votes beating Janneth Mbene who claimed 61 votes, Titus Osoro with 17 votes, Yono Kevela (31) and Chota Chota (12) The officials who were elected members of the executive committee were Hamad Islam (1,206 votes), Bahati Faison Mwaseba (1,174 votes), Dominick Ikute (1,08 votes), Kamugisha Kalokola (1,072 votes), Arafat Haji (1,024 votes), Salum Ruvila (976 votes), Saad Khimji (78 votes) and Rodgers Gumbo (776 votes). TFF Election Committee ordered Yanga to conduct the General Election on May 5th this year, denouncing April 28t h proposed by the club’s Board of Trustees. That order came after the club’s Board of Trustee members under its Chairman George Mkuchika had an emergency meeting at the club’s headquarters in the city where among other things, they proposed that the highly awaited General Election should be held on April 28t h. Shortly after the meeting, Mkuchika revealed a six member committee to take care of all the team’s affairs until the election time which was made up of Mashauri Lucas (Chairman), Said Ntimizi (Vice-Chairman), Ndama Hussein, Hussein Nyika, Moses Katabaro and Maulid. The election came after a long wait and was fairly and peacefully conducted. The new leaders will be in charge of one of the oldest clubs in the country for the next four years. The new leaders have a huge task to rescue the club from the current financial tatters to stability. The election was held after being postponed for over five times due to various reasons. Mbaraka Igangula and Elias Mwanjala decided to pull out of the contest at the eleventh hour.