PLAYMAKER Ibrahim Ajib and defender Shomari Kapombe have been included in the 39 member national team ‘Taifa Stars’ provisional sq uad ready for the 2019 Africa C up of Nations (AFC ON) finals in Egypt next month. The squad was revealed yesterday by the team’s Head Coach Emmanuel Amunike who has also recalled Simba SC left back Mohamed Hussein as well as the country’s Under-17 national team ‘Serengeti Boys’ ace striker Kelvin John and U-18 goalkeeper Claryo Boniface. Addressing journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Amunike said in the same selected pool, he will pick the squad that will compete in the Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers games. Amunike who excelled to guide the team into the AFCON finals set to begin on June 21st to July 19th in Egypt revealed that plans are underway for Stars to play two strong friendly matches against Egypt and probably Nigeria to beef up confidence to the selected players. “First and foremost, let me thank all Tanzanians for rallying behind us during all the AFCON qualifying fixtures we played and most importantly on the last day we hosted Uganda Cranes at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Your support and the confidence you had in us surely did wonders to the extent that we managed to reach our objective of playing in the finals of the continent’s biggest football event,” Amunike said. He added that the journey to reach this far was not that easy but with the belief and confidence that both players and the management had, the once viewed impossible mission turned up to be possible. Furthermore, Amunike revealed that the current squad of 39 players has incorporated young players in order to build their confidence on how it feels to play in the national team. “As I usually say, I owe Tanzanians nothing but the truth, commitment, hard work and discipline which are the core values to reach big dreams,” he said. The full squad has: Goalkeepers are Aishi Manula (Simba), Mechata Mnata (Mbao FC), Suleman Salula (Malindi FC-Zanzibar), Aron Kalambo (Tanzania Prisons) and Claryo Boniface (U-18). Defenders: Hassan Kessy (Nkana Rangers-Zambia), Vicent Philipo (Mbao FC), Shomari Kapombe (Simba SC), Gadiel Micheal (Young Africans), Abdi Banda (Baroka FC-South Africa), Ally Mtoni (Lipuli FC), Mohammed Hussein (Simba SC), Agrey Morris (Azam FC), Kelvin Yondani (Young Africans), Erasto Nyoni (Simba SC), David Mwantika (Azam FC), Ally Ally (KMC) and Kennedy Wilson (Singida United). Midfielders: Feisal Salum (Young Africans), Himid Mao (Petrojet- Egypt), Mudathir Yahya (Azam FC), Yahya Zaydi (Ismaily- Egypt), Jonas Mkude (Simba SC), Ibrahim Ajib (Young Africans), Fred Tangalu (Lipuli FC) and Frank Domayo (Azam FC). Strikers: Shabani Chilunda (Tenerife FC-Spain), Shiza Kichuya (ENPPI-Egypt), Simon Msuva (Difaa EL Jadida-Morocco), Rashid Mandawa (BDF XI-Botswana), Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk-Belgium), Thomas Ulimwengu (JS Saoura-Algeria), John Bocco (Simba SC), Farid Mussa (Tenerife FC-Spain), Ayoub Lyanga (Coastal Union), Kassim Hamis (Kagera Sugar), Miraj Athuman (Lipuli FC), Kelvin John (Serengeti Boys) and Adi Yussuf (Solihull Moors-England). Tanzania is packed in group C of the tournament together with African giants Algeria, Senegal and fellow East Africa neighbours