COMMUNITY radio practitioners have been challenged to come up with programmes to address the prevalence of violence against girls and women, by keeping the group, especially in rural areas, aware of their rights. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO ) Head of Office and Representative Mr Tirso Dos Santos, made the remark in Dodoma yesterday at the opening of a training session to enhance knowledge of community radio practitioners in designing effective and interactive programs in Sexuality& Reproductive Health (SRH),HIV and AIDS, Gender based Violence (Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and Girls Education). “Despite significant progress on the area of basic education and sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services (including HIV/AIDS) in Tanzania, adolescents and young people – especially young women – still face a wide range of challenges in education and health that compromise their life chances and that hold back the development of the nation,” he said. He said teenage pregnancy was a major health concern because of its association with higher morbidity and mortality for both the mother and child. Mr Santos added that childbearing during the teenage years frequently had adverse social consequences, particularly for educational attainment, because women who become mothers in their teens were more likely to curtail their education. Results show that in Tanzania, 27% of women aged 15-19 have begun childbearing, 23% of women aged 15-19 are currently married or living together compared with only 2% of men in the same age category and 12% of young women and 13% of young men aged 15-24 had sex before they were 15 . Furthermore, the 2018 Education Statistical Report revealed that in 2017, 6483 girls dropped out due to pregnancies and 81 due to marriage . One in ten women in Tanzania has been circumcised. He said the training was timely, as it is in records that more than one in five Tanzanians are adolescents, aged between 10 and 19 years. “I urge you to join hands with UNESCO to use the social cultural approach to change the mindset of community members and thus enable them understand that during this era, child marriage, teen pregnancy and FGM have no place as they are detrimental to girls’ rights,” Mr Santos pointed out. UNESCO’s initiatives through its social- cultural approach in Ngorongoro District have gained community support and achieved notable impacts, including change of mindset of some of the traditional leaders and Ngaribas (the female circumcisers). UNESCO acknowledges that while schools have a key role to play in equipping children and young people through delivering life skillsbased sexuality and reproductive health education curriculum, it alone cannot meet all sexual and reproductive information needs of young people as they transition from children to adulthood. Since 2013, UNESCO has been working with a broad range of partners, including community radios and religious leaders, to strengthen sexual and reproductive health and HIV prevention amongst children and young people. The five-day training involving 50 community radio practitioners has been organized in collaboration with Dodoma FM and technical support from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children.