AS the Tanzania Premier League heads to climax relegation threat now faces Stand United and Tanzania Prisons who yesterday lost their crucial games in Mwanza and Tanga respectively. Stand United who are limping with 44 points from 37 games, lost 3-2 to hosts Alliance FC at the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza and loss dropped the two positions down to 12th place, a position that can be reached by three teams buried at the deep side of the relegation zone. The same situation also faces Tanzania Prisons who are placed 14th on from 37 games after losing 1-0 to Coastal Union at Mkwakwani Stadium in Tanga making their presence in the next Premier League season in doubt. Other teams deeply threatened include Ruvu Shooting with 42 points, Mwadui FC and JKT Tanzania with 41 points. They can reach 44 points, a situation that makes the battle to avoid relegation to be decided in the last round on May 28. At the Nyamagana Stadium in Mwanza Dickson Ambundo’s brace helped the hosts Alliance FC to go up further to the ninth position a place that was previously occupied by Singida United who have now dropped to the 11th position. Ambundo put the hosts on the lead in the first minute of the game after dribbling past two Stand United’s defenders and tapped the ball into the back of the net. Alliance hit-man, who was replaced in the second half by Shaaban William, doubled his side’s lead in the 19th minute before Hussein Javu wasted a clear chance to make it 3-0 after he was set through by Samir Vincent. Visitor United reduced the margin to make it 2-1 through William Kimazi who connected home Hafidhi Mussa’s assist in the 44th minute to make it 2-1 at a halftime break. In the second half Juma Nyangi assured Alliance vital points which put them in a safety position from relegation or playoff games but opponents Stand United responded through Mwakisaga goal. The scorer scored from Majaliwa Shaaban’s pass. At the Mkwakwani Stadium hosts Coastal also bagged 47 points from their 37 games which as well saw them clear themselves out of the relegation zone. Coastal Union netted their winner through Raizen Hafidhi in the 69th minute. The goal deepens Tanzania Prisons worries of going down into relegation zone or playoff games, Prisons are on 43 points from 37 games and are settled in the 14th position tied on points with Biashara United and Kagera Sugar who are both struggling to escape both relegation and the playoff. The 2018/19 league season title was clinched by Simba who have defended their title after a 2-0 win over Singida United early this week. They have reached 91 points which no team can manage. African Lyon who have already bid farewell to the Premier League will next season play in the First Division League (FDL). They have collected 23 points from 37 games. Police Tanzania and Namungo FC are the two sides from FDL which have been promoted into to the Premier League next season.