SHOCK and uncertainty recently gripped Kirando Ward along the shorelines of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District, Rukwa region, when a pregnant woman turned surgeon and using a razor blade, ripped her stomach open and delivering her own baby. And, when the news spread like bush fire in the area, villagers thronged Kirando Health Centre grounds to have a glimpse of the 30-year old woman, Ms Joyce Kilinda, some describing her as courageous Kirando Ward Councillor, Kakuli Seba told the ‘Daily News’ in a telephone interview from the scene of the incident that a huge group of citizens had jammed the health facility since the wee hours, shortly after the news spread around the precinct. He further said the incident of its kind occurred at around 6am when the woman got out of the maternity ward at Kirando Health Centre and opened wide her stomach and brought out her baby girl alive. “The woman caused herself severe bodily injuries. As we talk here, the doctors are doing everything in their powers to save her life,” he said. Nkasi District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Hashim Mvogogo confirmed the incident, saying doctors were working hard to save the mother’s life. “I have been informed about the incident, I can confirm that it has happened, though I don’t have enough details at the moment, my office will inform the public on the matter later,” he noted. Ms Ester John Donalto, a close relative to the woman who performed scissor by herself said her sister started to feel maternal pains at midnight and waited in her grandmother’s house until 3am when she was rushed to Kirando Health Centre for safe delivery. “At the health facility, the nurse on duty received her and admitted her to maternity ward. However, we were informed that something strange had happened at around 6am at the health facility. We were informed that our relative had ripped her stomach open using a razor blade and delivering her own baby, we quickly rushed to the health centre and found her in this astonishing situation,” said Ms Donalto. Nurses at the health facility who preferred anonymity admitted that the new baby girl is in good condition and that she is under close watch of doctors.