KENYAN High Commissioner to Tanzania, Dan Kazungu has invited Kenyan investors in hospitality industry to turn in large number and invest in Kalambo River Falls. The Kalambo Falls on the Kalambo River is a 772-foot single-drop waterfall on the border of Zambia and Tanzania at the southeast end of Lake Tanganyika. The High Commissioner invited investors to build tourist hotels at the vicinity of Kalambo River Falls located at Kapozwa village in Kalambo during his one day tour of the region recently. “I am appealing investors from around the world to come and heavily invest in the precinct by building tourist hotels and other essential structures in a bid to promote it internationally, “ Mr Kazungu said. He said Kalambo Falls are one of the most attractive tourist attractions that should be promoted and heavily invested in a bid to attract many local and foreign visitors from around the world. The Kalambo River flows all the way into the vast Lake Tanganyika that is shared by four countries namely Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Burundi, Zambia and Tanzania. The Kalambo Falls are among some of the tallest uninterrupted falls in Africa namely South Africa’s Tugela Falls, Ethiopia’s Jin Bahir Falls and others. Downstream of the falls is the Kalambo Gorge, which has a width of about 1 km and a depth of up to 300 m, running for about 5 km before opening out into the Lake Tanganyika rift valley. Kalambo Falls is also considered one of the most important archaeological sites in Africa, with occupation spanning over 250,000 years. He also suggested to Tanzania Forest Services (TFS), the caretaker of the fall, to look at possibility of putting a line cable car to enable tourists to easily have aerial view of the place. The TFS acting Manager for Kalambo District, Mr Herman Ndaziali told the envoy that currently they are constructing 1,277 metres steel steps at the falls at the cost of 853m/-. During his working tour, the envoy also visited a modern SAAFI abattoir and airport in Sumbawanga Municipality. The Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo said the region is working hard to ensure that all requisite infrastructures including 55.9bn/- expansion and rehabilitation of airport to an international level are going on schedule in a bid to address challenges that hinder business people from investing in the region.