EDUCATIONISTS have called on the government to consider overhauling the preprimary and secondary school curricular for the country to achieve its industrialisation drive. They made the remarks in Dar es Salaam while speaking during the 11th Mwalimu Nyerere Intellectual festival, an annual event that brings together various dignitaries from within and outside the country. “There is need to align teaching with the demands of the industrial sector; there is also need for our curricula to allow our children to be more innovative and creative,” said Dr Fortidas Bakuza of the Aga Khan University, Institute for Educational Development, East Africa. Dr Bakuza said education is the key that will unlock the doors to industrial development that involves strengthening the education system, improving the technical and manual skill set with a focus on quality. He said with the industrialisation as top agenda, there should be adequate skills and human resources for Tanzania to realise its vision. “Lessons should be more hands-on and practical; learning should be contextual, timely and relevant. The government should invest in facilities and workshops that will create a learning environment that offers exposure to its students,” he noted. A lecturer at University of Dar es Salaam College of Education, Dr Subirego Kejo, said the curriculum needs to have clear objectives of the kind of people it aims to develop. “There are qualities that are crucial in building an industrial economy that should be reflected from primary schools to secondary schools curriculum,” Dr Kejo mentioned the qualities to include enhancing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) skills, entrepreneurship, promoting culture of saving, discipline, self-confidence, promoting creativity and innovation. Expounding further, she said those were the qualities that should be instilled in people, and that it has to begin from early education as it is the foundation of everything, although teachers use a short time in training children and they do not give them a chance to be creative. Dr Kejo recommended that before reviewing the curriculum, it was crucial to follow important procedures that include orientation to teachers for them to own the curriculum. “There is need to review the preparation of nursery and primary school teachers as it is the foundation of everything, not everyone is qualified to be prepared as a teacher,” she noted. The three day annual festival that ended on 24 May is taken as a moment for reflecting and making candid deliberations on the future of Tanzania and the continent as a whole.