THE 72nd World Health Assembly has adopted a resolution on emergency and trauma care aimed at helping countries to ensure timely care for the acutely ill and injured persons. A statement issued by the World Health Organization (WHO), yesterday pointed out that the discussions on the resolution tabled during the meeting held in Geneva, Switzerland on Monday received the support of 22 member States. “It is estimated that more than half of deaths in low and middle income countries emanate from conditions that could be treated with prehospital and emergency care, including injuries, infections, acute exacerbations of cancer, diabetes, complications of pregnancy and other noncommunicable diseases,” noted the statement. Recent studies have ranked components of emergency care as among the most cost-effective public health interventions. According to the studies strengthening pre-hospital care by training community based on providers and using staffed community ambulances have been estimated to cost less than 100 US dollars per life saved. Again, the move has shown to reduce mortality by 25-50 percent in some low and middle income country contexts. As such, the World Health Assembly resolution seeks to overcome some of the main challenges facing countries, including poor coordination of pre-hospital and facility-based care and limited or no coverage of pre-hospital systems especially in rural areas. Among other areas include shortage of fixed staff assigned to emergency units, lack of standards for clinical management and documentation and insufficient funding. In addition, lack of security for pre-hospital and facility- based emergency care staff remains a challenge in many countries. Thus, the resolution suggests that all member States, regardless of available resources, can take steps towards strengthening their emergency care systems. The resolutions has recommended activities for member States include creating policies to ensure universal access to emergency care for all, conducting a WHO emergency care system assessment to identify gaps and priorities for action. Other recommendations are developing clinical protocols identified in the WHO Emergency Care Systems Framework and providing emergency care training for all relevant health providers. The WHO Secretariat is invited to expand its technical support to Member States.