EAST Usambara Tea Company Limited (EATCO) based in Amani-Muheza in Tanga Region has been instructed to form a subsidiary company and formally request the government for a permit to engage in blending and packaging of tea for local consumption and export. Deputy Minister for Industry and Trade, Engineer Stella Manyanya, explained here yesterday that the current permit issued to EATCO allows it only to engage in processing of raw tea leaves and produce dry leaves (made tea). “EATCO is a very big company and it is doing a good work. It should, however, form a subsidiary company if it wants to engage in blending and packaging of tea,” Eng. Manyanya, explained as she was responded to a basic question by Muheza MP, Mr Adadi Rajab (CCM). The MP had challenged the government to review the existing policy and legislation, which do not allow tea farmers to establish their own factories for blending and packaging of the cash crop. Responding to the question, Eng Manyanya explained that even as the Amani-Muheza based company own and operate three factories of processing raw leaves into dry leaves, it is still required to establish a subsidiary company to engage in second stage of processing, which is blending and packaging. “The company had requested for a permit to blend and pack tea, but it was directed to form a subsidiary, which is according to the law and policy of tea processing in the country. Tea farmers are allowed to engage in the second stage of processing through subsidiary companies,” she pointed out. Nevertheless, the Deputy Minister explained to the Parliamentarians that the Tanzania Tea Board (TTB) is currently reviewing its regulations to put in place enabling environment for the establishment of tea processing industries. In another development, the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Japhet Hasunga, said the government has instructed the Mtwara-based Naliendele Agricultural Research Institute to start processing of juice and wine from cashew nut fruits. “Studies conducted by the institute have established that cashew nut can produce various products. The government has thus instructed the institute to install machines for producing juice and wines,” he explained. The minister made the explanation, while responding to a supplementary question by Ndanda MP, Mr Cecil Mwambe (Chadema) who had sought to know plans to start production of liquor from cashew nut based on research findings by the agricultural institute.