GIVE it any name, but it will still remain a plastic bag, polybag, or pouch as a type of container made of thin, flexible, plastic film, nonwoven fabric, or plastic textile. Scientists will tell you that once discarded, the waste is one of many types of rubbishes that take too long to decompose. Call a spoon a spoon, plastic items can take up to 1, 000 years to decompose in landfills. At home the plastic bags we use in our everyday life takes 10-1000 years to decompose, and their sister-plastic bottles, can take 450 years or more. They tend to disrupt the environment in a serious way particularly once dumped in the soil, where they slowly release toxic chemicals. Oh! Unfortunately the bags don’t break down completely but instead photo-degrade, and become micro-plastics that absorb toxins and continue to pollute the environment. Oh! They eventually break down into the soil, with the unfortunate result being that animals eat them and often choke and die, what is being said here is that they are not friendly to the environment we rely on for agriculture, and source of water for domestic use. Birds often mistake shredded plastic bags for food, filling their stomachs with toxic debris. For hungry sea turtles (one in three leatherback sea turtles have been found with plastic in their stomachs) and it’s nearly impossible to distinguish between jellyfish and floating plastic shopping bags. Fish (you and I eat) eat thousands of tonnes of plastic a year, transferring it up to the food chain to bigger fish and marine mammals. Note that 100,000 marine animals are killed by plastic bags annually. With statistics according to Waste Management, only 1 percent of plastic bags are returned for recycling, and that means that the average family only recycles 15 bags a year; the rest ends up in landfills as litter. Reinforcing according to EcoWatch Plastics affect all biological spectrum, including posing risks to human health and wildlife, the accumulation of these products has led to increasing amounts of environmental pollution around the world including Africa. About 90 percent of all trash floating on the ocean’s surface is believed to be emanating from plastics. With that background amongst other, Tanzania is joining other 13 countries to enforce a total ban on the use of plastic bags by 1st June, 2019, and had urged manufactures to start producing alternative bags that are environmentally friendly. However, as the ban will take effect just like culture that is gradually changed, the public should further be educated and reminded by all responsible authorities that the plastic bags made from crude oil, have only existed for one generation, and can be replaced. It is possible and should start from you and I.