THE government is willing to form a joint committee with members of the media to sort out and outline clauses of law seen as repressive in the Media Services Act of 2016. Addressing the climax of World Press Freedom Day here yesterday, Chief Government Spokesperson, Dr Hassan Abbass, noted that there have been complaints that some of the clauses in the Act are repressive. “The government suggests forming a joint committee with members from media institutions to go sort out and outline the clauses seen as repressive in the Act,” said Dr Abbass, who doubles as the Director of the Tanzania Information Services Department. He said the joint committee will go through the Act, sort out the clause seen as repressive and outline them for the government to work on the clauses, pointing out that the joint committee should include members from UNESCO and Press Associations. Dr Abbass observed that apart from sorting out the clauses in the Act, the joint committee will get an opportunity to go through national policies and regulations alleged to undermine press freedom. “It should be noted that the government recognizes and appreciates the great contribution made by the media in the country,” he said. Acting Chairman of Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), Mr Deogratius Balile, said members of the press should make use of the democracy to review the Act, adding that the joint committee will draw its members from eleven associations dealing with the press. Following the plans to form a joint committee, Mr Balile urged the government to remove a case in court involving the Media Council of Tanzania (MCT) and other media institutions against the government. UK High Commissioner to Tanzania, Ms Sarah Cooke, said her government will spend 7.8bn/- to support good working condition for the press in the country, pointing out that the fund will be used to improve the journalism profession. She said the fund will support journalists to carry out wide coverage on corruption, social issues and climate change to raise public awareness, adding that her office will soon announce the application of the fund to support the press. Earlier, Mr Balile commended the fifth phase government for great achievements registered in infrastructure construction, saying the achievements would have a true meaning if the people would continue to enjoy freedom of expression.