THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) yesterday revealed that they have signed a three year contract with LaLiga as one way to propel football development in the country. LaLiga giants Sevilla FC are set to face off Champions Simba SC in a historic friendly match to be played this night at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yesterday, some of Sevilla players had a football clinic with Bom Bom football academy players from Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam at Uhuru Stadium which was part and parcel of their three day schedule in the country. However, speaking at a press briefing, TFF President Wallace Karia said the signed contract will help to cement the already existing ties between the two sides. “As federation, we are always eager to see that football standards are improving in the nation from the foundation level that is why this cooperation is health for our development,” Karia said. Adding, Karia noted that about 99 per cent of the national football team players who will play in this year’s AFCON finals in Egypt have been derived from youth football academies that is why the federation is doing everything possible to invest more in young football players. He then called Sevilla to make another fruitful trip to the country in the near future as one way of promoting the most loved sports in the world. In his inaugural speech, SportPesa Tanzania Director of Administration and Compliance Tarimba Abbas reiterated that his firm will continue to do whatever it can afford to help in the advancement of football countrywide. Speaking at the same occasion, Simba SC Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Crescentius Magori said they are happy to be the first team from East Africa block to host Sevilla saying it is a big pride for them. “I talked with the head coach (Patrick Aussems) who assured me that tomorrow (today), they will play the type of football you have never seen before,” Magori said. Magori added that since the winner of the friendly match will pocket a trophy, then Simba is all set to add a second silverware to their cupboard after retaining the league title. On his part, Sevilla President Jose Carmona lauded Tanzanians for giving them good reception after their arrival on Tuesday night. “We will continue to work abreast with SportPesa, La- Liga World and various stakeholders to help each other in improving football mainly youth football,” he said. Meanwhile, reports Betram Lengama in Dar es Salaam that the management of Simba SC has assured their Belgian tactician, Patrick Aussems a contract extension. The Msimbazi street based club Chairman of Board of Directors, Mohammed Dewji alias ‘MO’ yesterday broke the ice on their Belgian coach Patrick Aussems future with the club following some gossip that the coach was likely to part ways with champions. Speaking yesterday with reporters after Simba successfully defended their league title, ‘MO’ unveiled that the club is satisfied with Belgian performance as he has accomplished the task assigned by the club on his initial contract and they intend to extend his contract.