THE government has issued a notice to the managements of 23 privatised industries to present to the ministry of Trade and Industries a comprehensive plan on how they intend to develop them before May 31, 2019; otherwise the State will repossess them. The Minister for Trade and Industries, Mr Joseph Kakunda, said here yesterday that the government wants committed investors who can run the industries, adding that the government would relocate them to committed investors. He was tabling his ministry’s budget proposals for the financial year 2019/2020, a platform he used to request parliament to approve 100.4bn/- for recurrent and development expenditure. He said the ministry was targeting to collect 14.3bn/- during the year. However, the 2019/2020 budget has been slashed by 43bn/- from the 143bn/- presented by his immediate predecessor, Charles Mwijage during the 2018/2019 fiscal year, while during the 2017/2018 financial year, the figure was 122.2bn/- According to Mr Kakunda, as of April, 2019, his ministry had received 43.4bn/- from the treasury and that the ministry had until that time collected 8.99bn/-. Regarding undeveloped industries, the minister said that in regard to some repossessed industries, the government discovered that their documents had been used as collateral to seek huge amounts of loans from various financial institutions, which were larger than the money spent on privatising them. Because of the loans, the minister added, some had failed to present documents of the industries to the government because they were yet to clear the outstanding debts. “I want to inform all investors who bought the factories, whether they are within or outside the country to understand that by doing so, they are committing economic sabotage; so, they should clear their issues with the banks before May 31, 2019,’’ he emphatically stated. Mr Kakunda said the government was not intending to extend the deadline, adding that the investors who will fail to abide by the government’s directive would face the wrath of the law. He explained that of the 156 privatised industries, only 88 industries were operating while 68 were dormant. He added that out of the 88 operating ones, only 42 industries were performing well, 46 industries were in the satisfactory category, and the operations of 20 others had been halted because during the privatisation process, their assets had been sold randomly. The owners of 48 other industries had failed to run them in accordance with purchasing agreements, and that was why 16 of them had been repossessed by the government and 32 others have been slapped with a notice that expires on May 31, 2019. The minister further told the National Assembly that the government was currently reviewing the National Business Policy (2003) so that it can cope with the country’s industrialisation drive. The review of the policy, Mr Kakunda said, would consider both the regional and multilateral protocols and agreements signed by the government. On the priorities for the next fiscal year, Mr Kakunda said his ministry was planning to continue implementing all the strategic projects, continuing to legalize small industries and businesses, doubling value for raw materials from agriculture, implementing the country’s blueprint, as well as strengthening research and technology, among others.