DAY in day out, President John Magufuli has been reminding citizens on the importance of paying taxes in the country. His school of thought is that without taxes, the government will not be able to finance public projects ranging from water provision, health services, to infrastructures being built for the people’s own advantages. G enerally speak ing, Tanzania is not the only country in the world where tax es are collected, and to be precise, a tax ( from the Latin taxo) is a compulsory financial charge or some other type of levy imposed upon a taxpayer ( an individual or other legal entity) by a governmental organisation in order to fund various public expenditures that should not be politicised. For that matter, all citizens should cooperate and support the government towards its goals, which on the other way round, comes back to serve them. A failure to pay, along with evasion of or resistance to tax ation, is punishable by law, which all citizens should be aware of. Tanzania has been maintaining a high level of economic stability over the past decades, mak ing it the fastest growing economy in the East African Community, because the government has been able to serve the public in terms of trick ling them back what belongs to them. Peace has prevailed in the country, and of late thousands of visitors ( tourists) have been coming to the country because there is peace (their security) provided by the citizens themselves as well as the Police task ed to protect law and order (people’s lives and property), who are being paid by the tax payers money. Put simply, Tanzania must collect more taxes intended to enable the beneficial running of the society’s goals. In a modern society a government needs administrators and clerk s, police forces, and emergency forces such as firefighters, engineers and maintenance workers for streets and buildings, and to pay for property used and goods consumed by the government services. In short, the benefit of paying taxes is to ensure that everyone in a community enjoys the services provided by the government. Whether the taxes pay for defence, infrastructure, education, or public safety the intention is that they create a safe and stable environment in which people can live. The public should be therefore, enlightened to k now that programmes providing health, education, infrastructure and other services are important to achieve the common goal of a prosperous, functional and orderly society for their own benefits, and these req uire that the government collect taxes. Taxation not only pays for public goods and services; it is also a k ey ingredient in the social contract between citizens and the economy. How taxes are raised and spent can determine a government’s very legitimacy, and holding the government accountable encourages the effective administration of tax revenues and, more widely, good public financial management.