EMMANUEL Okwi scored the only goal as holders Simba SC pounded Tanzania Prisons 1-0 at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya yesterday. It was his 11th goal of the season and helped the defending champions to close gap with their traditional rivals; Young Africans. Simba have managed to bag maximum six points from their two back to back fixtures in the region. The victory enabled Simba to reach 78 points on second slot of the current Mainland Premier League table, two points adrift leaders Yanga who have bagged 80 points from 34 encounters. In response with the prevailing fixture, the defending champions will be in action again on Wednesday taking on Coastal Union in Dar es Salaam before entertaining Kagera Sugar on Friday in the city. The eagerly awaited tie against Azam FC is set on May 13th. Moreover, as it stands, Simba is the only team which has conceded a few goals in the unfolding league (12) and has scored 61 while Yanga have netted 54 and conceded 24. Additionally, the Msimbazi Street giants have four games in hand to equal the number of games played by the current toppers Yanga which is 34 encounters. The defeat on the other hand was a bitter pill for the hosts Tanzania Prisons who have lost six points from two clashes after going down 2-1 to Yanga at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam last week. Placed 9 th on the ladder, Tanzania Prisons have pocketed 42 points and this is the credit to them since at one point in the league, they were at the base of the 20-team table and looked likely to farewell the top flight competition but since then, they have gained pace match after match to climb up the ladders. Simba started the match on front pedal, exploring Tanzania Prisons from every corner of the pitch with the aim to take an early lead. The team’s Head Coach Patrick Aussems made a couple of changes from the side which demolished Mbeya City 2-1 at the same venue last Friday. He brought on board goalkeeper Aishi Manula who was benched for his team’s two past clashes. Others who were called in action yesterday include Zana Coulibaly, Clatous Chama as well as Haruna Niyonzima, whose three match suspension after picking a red card against Biashara United, had ended. However, after series of trials, finally Simba made the awaited breakthrough in the 11th minute with Ugandan import Emmanuel Okwi again lifting up Reds supporters who filled the venue. His goal remained until the end of the first half and the normal period of play. The hosts came refreshed in the last half, piling pressure towards the visitor’s goal but Simba defence was concrete backed up by number one goalie Manula. Aussems made three substitutions on the day, calling to bench the goal scorer Okwi for holding midfielder Jonas Mkude in the 65th minute, and later bringing in Hassan Dilunga who replaced Haruna Niyonzima. Again, the Belgian tactician sacrificed his right back Coulibaly in the 87th minute for G hanaian Nicholus G yan.