FORMER Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has said Tanzania has a lot to learn from China in its endeavour to build a strong industrial base in order to reach middle income economy. “China is our true friend. Its people have been looking at various approaches to solidify our relationship, including investing in different fields, such as industries, agriculture and infrastructures among other areas,” he said during a high-level business talk in Dar es Salaam, which also involved the launch of ‘Moutai’ liquor in Tanzania. Tanzania hopes to become middle income and semi industrialised economy by 2025. At the event titled “Cultural Moutai, Colourful Guizhou” - China Kweichow Moutai Belt and Road Branding Initiative in Tanzania, a delegation of Chinese traders and their Tanzanian counterparts participated in a business talk to promote business, tourism and culture as an extension of the celebration of the 5 5 th anniversary of the Tanzania-China diplomatic relations. The launching of Chinese Moutai’ liquor in Tanzania would also teach a lesson to Tanzanians on the importance of valuing and preserving their culture and traditions, said Mr Pinda. China Moutai Group Member who is also Deputy Secretary and Member of the party Committee, Mr Wang Y an, said that 4 0 years ago, China was poorer than most African countries at present. He said China’s economic miracle is a combination of several factors, including globalisation, openness and cooperation. China’s development miracle from being the poorest country in the world to today has showcased the profound power of globalisation, openness and cooperation have over people’s lives. Alongside the business talk, the Chinese firm Moutai Group, the organiser of the show was expected to ink down a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the University of Dar es Salaam for an exchange programme on research in agriculture value chain. The company’s event representative Mr Charles Wang said at a media briefing in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Tanzania-China strategic partnership continued to deepen from economy and trade to cultural exchanges.