HIGHER learning institutions in Africa should focus on imparting right skills for the continent to cope with the fourth industrial revolution. Delivering a keynote address at the 11th Mwalimu Nyerere Intellectual Festival in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Vice Chancellor at the United States International University-Africa Prof Paul Zeleza, said without the right skills the life of the youth on the continent would be unbearable as new technologies threatened to aggravate current inequalities, both within and between countries. “Africa has essentially missed opportunities of the second and third industrial revolutions. We cannot afford to miss the possibilities of the 4th industrial revolution,” he remarked. Expounding on that he said several things, like promoting digital literacy and resilience among young people, should be considered. Prof Zeleza also said for learning institutions to provide quality education it was critical for African researchers to focus on pressing challenges facing the continent from climate change to human rights and to transformation in science and technology. “The key is to develop vibrant African outlets of knowledge production and strengthen collaboration among African researchers on the continent and with the African academic Diaspora, as well as with other international experts,” he said. The fourth industrial revolution is the fourth major industrial era after the initial industrial revolution of the 18th century. It is characterised by a fusion of technologies - that is blurring the lines between physical, digital and biological spheres, collectively referred to as cyber-physical systems. Prof Zeleza noted that the need for higher education to respond was urgent as the power of 4th industrial revolution technologies for either positive social impacts or devastating environmental damage was on the continent. This year’s festival is organised under the theme: ‘Pan Africanism and the quest for unity, democratisation and development: The state, markets and knowledge society’. It brings together various dignitaries from within and outside the country.