YOUNG Africans Head Coach M winyi Z ahera said mathematically, his side should not be written off as far as claiming this season’s M ainland Premier League title is concerned. His sentiments were a response following a slim 1-0 win over R uvu Shooting at the U huru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, with the team’s midfielder Papy Tshishimbi netting the winner midway into the first half. “I am happy to win today (Tuesday) because I presumed it to be the most difficult match since we had no time to train after returning from M ara such that my boys touched the ball during the pre-match warm-ups,” Zahera said. He said the players were tired after a long journey but congratulated them for sacrificing themselves to emerge winners. Asked what the victory meant for his team, Zahera said football is unpredictable such that people should not entirely give them no chance of lifting the title since mathematically, they are still after the title. “Anything can happen in football. We are remaining with two games while our opponents (Simba) have five, they can loose all of them. Football is unpredictable,” the Congolese coach said. However, Z ahera narrated that the game of football in the country is to a large extent being spoiled by poor refereeing saying there are Y anga and Simba referees present who usually take sides when these teams are playing. “Look at how South Africa and English Premier Leagues officiate their leagues without biases such that the winner is unveiled at the last day of the season. Here, we lack this quality and football cannot develop under such circumstances,” noted Z ahera. In his remarks, R uvu Shooting coach Ally B izimungu conceded that his game plan changed after conceding the goal. “Our plan was to hold Y anga for the whole first half and open up in the second h a l f but this plan malf u n c - tioned after allowing them to score,” Bizimungu said. He said after the slump, they must now aim to come back positively in their upcoming clashes. It was Y anga’s 36th match of the campaign to garner 83 points and have two games to play before ending the thrilling season which has seen them doing good on the pitch in most of their matches despite undergoing financial constraints. The victory helped to revive Y anga hopes of clinching the silverware at the end of the race after unbelievable performance by their traditional rivals Simba, who have been deprived five points out of possible six in their past two consecutive league ties. A 1-0 defeat from K agera Sugar at the U huru Stadium last week and a scoreless draw against Azam at the same venue on M onday added pressure to the defending champions who have five games to play before ending the campaign. The defeat, on the other hand was a big blow to R uvu Shooting who are placed 12th on the table with 42 points and hence not fully safe from the relegation battle. Up next, the Jangwani Street side will be in action on Wednesday entertaining 17th placed M beya City who have entered into the danger red relegation zone with 40 points in their bag similar to 18th place occupants B iashara United. Other teams in danger zone are M wadui who sit 19th on the table with 37 points while already confirmed relegated African Lyon continue to remain at the bottom with 22 points.