TANZANIA Golf Union (TGU) has set May 29 this year as a week-long national golf team residential camp start ready for upcoming Region Four Golf Championship. Formerly known as East African Challenge Trophy, the annual Region Four event is scheduled to be held from June 4 to 9 this year at Bujumbura Golf Club in Bujumbura, Burundi. TGU president, Chris Martin has told the ‘Daily News’ from Moshi yesterday that preparation for the camp that will be held in Dar es Salaam is on a top gear. The camp that was earlier planned to start early this week, has been postponed to next week for some reasons, according to Martin. “We have decided to organise a week residential camp for several reasons, we are sure that a week will do a lot as currently all national team members continue with daily preparation at their respective clubs,” he noted. The national team members include a sensational golfer from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) Victor Joseph who was the best performer at the national team qualifier battle last month. Also in the list is Ali Mcharo from TPC Moshi of Kilimanjaro who returned to the national team service after missing it for many years due to academic responsibilities. Others are Abbas Adam of Moshi Gymkhana Club of Kilimanjaro and Richard Mtweve of Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Golf Club of Dar es Salaam. They have qualified after passing tough tournaments run for three days, covering 90 holes. They played 18 holes at TPC Moshi course, and 36 holes at Kili Golf Club and the final 36 holes were played at Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC), both of Arusha. It looked that two regions; Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro shared the spoil at the national team. All players have vast international experience and now TGU has tasked them the tough job to bring victory to their country. The last time Tanzania won the tournament was in 2002 in the event held in Arusha when it was still known as East African Challenge Trophy. Martin said the team will not do it alone as they will be under the national team coach Fadhil Nkya who will help them fulfill their desirable goal. Nkya is also the former national team member, it is his first national team coach job, taking it from Hassan Kadio. He has been one of the local top pros with vast experience in the game. He also played in US as a professional golfer. Region 4 teams to compete in Burundi are Kenya, Rwanda, Ethiopia, Uganda, Tanzania, Eritrea, Somalia, Djibouti, Sudan, Comoro, Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar and the hosts Burundi