Simba SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems refused to comment further after a 1-1 draw with Biashara United over the weekend saying he is not a water polo coach. The champions salvaged a point in a game played at a waterlogged National Stadium pitch in Dar es Salaam which lost its beauty since the flow of the ball was limited following heavy downpour before the match. However, the talking point was not about the results but rather failure for the champions (Simba) to be given their 20th silverware after the clash on condition that the guest of honour who was to hand the trophy had a last minute emergency. This has since forced the trophy hand over ceremony to be staged tomorrow at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro where Simba take on Mtibwa Sugar in their last match of the campaign. All 20 teams will be on duty tomorrow in different venues across the country as the league curtain for the season falls down. The eye-catching match though will be between the second slot occupants Young Africans against the third-placed Azam at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam whereby the latter will be looking to avenge the 1-0 setback they suffered in the first round of the competition. No matter the outcome of the clash, the two teams will remain unmoved in their respective positions apart from seeing changes in points accumulated. Immediately after the match, the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Boniface Wambura revealed that the awaited official occasion to give Simba their title was withheld until Tuesday (tomorrow). "Its true that we planned to give Simba their Cup today but unfortunately, the guest of honour had an emergency as such, he could not turn up to grace the event and we failed to find his replacement," Wambura said. He added: "The good thing is that Simba have accepted the changes to receive their lucrative trophy in Morogoro on Tuesday (tomorrow)." At a post-match press briefing, Aussems said: "I am sorry...I cannot comment much on the game because I am not a water polo coach. Do you know what water polo is? The game that people play in a swimming pool." On his part, Biashara United coach Amri Said elaborated that they came with two options either to win or draw the match. "I am happy to take home one point from this difficult team and venue. Some of the challenges we face as a team include frequent changes of the league fixture by the concerned authorities which give us hard time to cope," Said explained. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Simba branches in Morogoro Said Mkwimba said they have received the news with both hands and called upon the team's fans to storm the stadium in their big numbers. "This is a history for us because ever since Simba started clinching league titles, they have never been awarded it here...we are very happy," he said. However, most Simba fans who were interviewed on Saturday after the game said they are not fazed at all to channel the trophy celebration party to Morogoro because it is also the strong base of the team where some of its players like goalkeeper Aishi Manula hail from.