TANZANIA Agricultural Research Institute (TARI), is currently studying soil samples in all seven agriculture ecological zones in the country to establish suitable crops to be planted and appropriate inputs to be used by farmers in respective areas. “Soil samples have already been extracted for research from southern highlands, central, northern and part of eastern zone in Morogoro region, the exercise will continue in other areas and will be completed by June 2020,”  Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Mr Omary Mgumba, explained. Adding; “The study is aimed at establishing the condition and properties of the soil which will enable the researchers to find out types of available nutrients and eventually educate farmers on best farming practices in accordance to soil condition in their areas.” The Deputy Minister made the explanation in the National Assembly on Wednesday when responding to a basic question by Chambani MP, Mr Yussuf Salim Hussein (CUF), who was pushing for promotion of organic farming in the country. The MP had argued that Tanzania is endowed with vast chunks of fertile land suitable for organic farming. He also reasoned that the farming method using locally available manure and pesticides will shield farmers from industrial inputs whose prices are exorbitant. However, Mr Mgumba explained that it is only after results of the study by TARI that researchers will be well informed to advise farmers in respective areas on whether to use locally available manure and pesticides or industrial inputs. “The government recognizes the increased demand for crops produced through organic farming, and as such we have improved the curriculum to encompass teaching of the farming method at agriculture training institutes,” he explained. Mr Mgumba stated further that the government has been working with other partners from the private sector to promote organic farming. These include Tanzania Organic Agriculture Movement (TAOM) and Sustainable Agriculture Tanzania (SAT). He mentioned other partners as Ecology Agriculture which is under SWISS AID, Zanzibar Organic Producers (ZANOP), and Tanzania Alliance for Biodiversity (TABIO) and Tanzania Organic Certification (TANCERT). Meanwhile, Mr Mgumba informed the House that Tanzania faces acute shortage of agriculture extension officers, noting that there are only 8,000 spread countrywide against the demand of 20,000 officers.