SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said pocketing all six points from Mbeya is what his side needed most at this stage of the unfolding Mainland Premier League. Simba maintained their superiority by thrashing Tanzania Prisons 1-0 at Sokoine Memorial Stadium over the weekend to reach 78 points, only 2 points behind the league leaders Young Africans. Prior to this match, Simba had humiliated Mbeya City 2-1 at the same venue which has seen them scoring a total of three goals and concede one goal accordingly. It was Ugandan import and the lethal striker Emmanuel Okwi who fired the only goal of the tense game which officially guaranteed them necessary three points to accomplish Mbeya region’s two-match feast in style. Okwi has now contributed 11 goals to his club this season, six goals adrift his teammate Meddie Kagere who tops the scoring chart after netting 17 goals to his name and make the Golden Boot chase exciting. Yanga’s Heritier Makambo and Mwadui’s Salim Aiyee both have 16 goals whereas John Bocco who did not play in Mbeya, has pumped into yawning net 14 goals. The Msimbazi Street giants will be in league action again tomorrow, entertaining Coastal Union in Dar es Salaam knowing exactly that a triumph will knock aside Yanga from the summit, a position they have enjoyed for a long time. Coastal Union are 10th on the log with 41 points from 33 clashes and will need to win the game to keep climbing up the steps on the ladder in their bid to shrug off relegation threat. Speaking after the match, Aussems said the victory was extremely important when considering the fact that they are playing back to back games with minimal resting time. “ This was our sixth game in 17 days and we have won all of them. The outcome is big to the club and we are now looking forward to the five home matches and continue our good run,” he said. The Belgian coach further said much credit should be directed to his charges who are fighting hard on the field to snatch the most important victory. “ The fixture is tight for us. We play after two days which is not healthy to the wellbeing of players but they are showing their maturity and do right job,” said him. On his part, Tanzania Prisons Assistant Coach Shabani Kazumba said fatigue among his players highly contributed to their dismal performance on the day. “ Remember we were in Dar es Salaam playing against Yanga and we had a minor road accident on our way back something which psychologically affected the players’ approach into the game,” Kazumba said.