IN the wake of the state-ofthe- art cath lab launch, the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) plans to conduct Cardiac Screening Outreach Programme to identify people suffering from cardiac diseases in Kondoa District, Dodoma Region. Cath lab is an examination room in a hospital or clinic with diagnostic imaging equipment used to visualise arteries of the heart and chambers of the heart and treat any stenosis or abnormality found. A cardiologist at B MH, Dr Willfredius Rutahoile, noted here yesterday that the people who will be diagnosed with heart diseases during the five-day exercise will be transferred to B MH for more medical checkup and treatment. “I call on members of the public in K ondoa District to turn up for free cardiac screening exercise,” said the cardiologist. Dr Rutahoile cited among the activities to be conducted during the exercise as blood pressure assessment, cardiac disease check up by using Electrocardiogram (ECG) and ECHO and health education to the clients. While speaking during an event to unveil the cath lab recently, Executive Director of B MH, Dr Alphonse Chandika, said B MH would use cath lab to perform cardiac surgical intervention on patients suffering from serious cardiac complications. He said previously the cath lab at B MH, a clinic with diagnostic imaging equipment used to visualise the arteries of the heart and chambers of the heart, could not start operations due to lack of cardiologists. “At the outset, our cardiologists teamed up with their counterparts from the Jakaya K ikwete Cardiac Institute to start operations at the cath lab,” said the hospital’s executive director. Dr Chandika observed that the cath lab at the hospital would help people with cardiac complications in Dodoma and neighbouring regions who had to travel all the way to Jakaya K ikwete Cardiac Institute in Dar es Salaam for medical treatment to get such services at B MH. He noted that statistics from the Paediatric Association of Tanzania (PAT) show that at least 13,600 infants are born with cardiac complications in the country annually and about 3,400 of them have to undergo surgery.