AN interdisciplinary international conference on the use, regulation and health effects of agrochemicals in sub-Saharan countries has kicked off here, with attendance from experts from the continent as well as America and Europe. Officiating the meeting yesterday, the Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Mr Omar Mgumba, called upon participants of the four-day conference to come up with solutions on adverse effects of pesticides to people and the environment. Mr Mgumba said the challenges in use of pesticides in Africa is huge, with banned or expired pesticides being brought in and used against the law and principles set out by the government. The meeting is taking place at the Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI) in the city. Mr Mgumba hailed TPRI for great work it has been doing on pesticides, adding that he was proud to have such an institute under his ministry, adding that TPRI has been responsible in promoting Tanzania internationally as well as setting good systems in production and use of pesticides, something he said was missing in most countries across the continent. “TPRI has been instrumental in helping policy makers as well as decision makers in the country, thus transforming the subsector. We must ensure we make good use of pesticides, and whenever possible avoid its negative effects, and we want to get solutions to such negative effects,” said Mr Mgumba. In her address, TPRI Acting Director General, Dr Margaret Mollel said with diversity of experts in the meeting, she was sure of enriching participants with what is needed in best use of pesticides as the current economic boom in many sub-Saharan countries is accompanied by an unprecedented increase in Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) due to industrial pollution, including pesticides. While local and international mobilisations call for more stringent pesticide control measures, African governments often refrain from adopting and enforcing strict regulations – considered as potential obstacles to development. The interdisciplinary conference is laying the foundations for a long-term scientific cooperation between African and European scholars on the management of pesticide-related occupational and environmental health hazards in Africa.