SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems said the late 1-0 win over JKT Tanzania on Tuesday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam was well deserved and has called his players to keep momentum. The defending champions will be in action tomorrow against Mbeya City at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium, before winding up their Mbeya Region mission on Sunday against Tanzania Prisons respectively. This means the Msimbazi based side have possible six points at disposal as they eye to retain the top flight league title for the second consecutive year. Immediately after jetting back from Mbeya, Simba will have four back to back home matches against Coastal Union (May 8th), Kagera Sugar (May 10th), Azam FC (May 13th) and Mtibwa Sugar (May 16th) orderly. Mbeya City, placed 10th on the table with 40 points will also be looking to pocket maximum three points from the game so as to be completely safe of remaining in the league next season. They have lost 14 matches, drew 7 and won 11 encounters. Mbeya City lost their past match 1-0 against Azam FC at Sokoine Stadium. On the other hand, Tanzania Prisons are undefeated at their territory in three matches with their previous league match ending in a scoreless draw against Biashara United. The Tuesday’s victory has seen Simba reaching 72 points from their 28 matches, only five points adrift leaders Young Africans, who have b agged 77 points after 33 outings. Yanga have scored 52 goals and conceding 23 in the process, while the Msimbazi Reds have netted 58 goals and allowed their net to be shaken 11 times. Briefing the media after the nervy win over JKT Tanzania, Aussems said the three points was what matters most at this stage of the competition where matches are played at short intervals. “As you saw, our opponents (JKT Tanzania) came up with defensive approach and employed many timew a s t i n g tactics but in the end, we won even though the victory came very late,” he said. He continued: “Since we are playing after every three days, the bodies of players seem to be tired but their mind is fresh.” The Belgian tactician said the two away games in Mbeya have arrived at a good time when his side is free from injury. On his part, JKT Tanzania Head Coach Abdallah Baresi, wondered why the referee added all seven minutes, while there was nothing critical during the match to demand such mammoth additional time. “I was surprised why at the end of 90 minutes, the referee added seven more minutes to the game,” Baresi said. He, however, lauded his charges for executing well his game plan on the day, while insisting that his team lost ground after the red card was flashed to one of his players.