PLAYERS transfer fever has taken over the stage immediately after the climax of the hectic Premier League season as teams reportedly in a big are for the armament. Top of this week include players who heralded the league news, most of them from football giants. From the controversial Ibrahim Ajib’s thwarted move TP Mazembe, Uganda import Juuko Murushid parting ways with Simba to the clean transfer of Haritier Makambo to Horoya, the transfer news and gossips have been endless this week. However, the players transfer this time has been kicked off in a different style unlike the previous season when players found guilty of signing for two rivals; Simba and Young Africans. But the transfer window’s best catch of the just ended season was Meddie Kagere who before crossing to Simba, served Kenyan giants Gor Mahia. The newly elected Yanga leadership is taking the transfer cautiously, an approach which seems to be quite different to that of the previous season. The new management under Dr Mshindo Msolla has opted for ‘quick and open’ transfer which has managed to snatch several players whose skills are said to be wonderful. Yanga have reported to have already signed several players also extending contracts of some of their key players and as well offered to release some of it dependable players. The team’s top scorer, Herieter Makambo is reported to have joined Guinean champs Horoya Athletic Club and Ibrahim Ajib whose move to the Congolese giants TP Mazembe has yet to get a clear path. But on the other side their rivals Simba are also seem to have abandoned the previous style as they have opted to wait as the rivals are busy hunting for some of highly targeted players. The team’s Head of Information and Communication, Haji Manara admitted they are not going to rush into the transfer window as they are waiting for the technical bench recommendations before jumping into the transfer window bandwagon. In another development, Simba are also said to have unveiled contract extension talks with their ace Ugandan international striker, Emmanuel Okwi. But, the sources in the club said all will be executed after the striker return from Egypt where he his national team, Uganda Cranes are among the contenders for 2019 AFCON title. According to a source, Okwi is reported to have received several offers from various clubs and that’s why he has pledged Simba to be patience. On his side the club’s Chairman, Swedi Nkwabi believes that Okwi will renew his contract and continue to serve the club for the coming season. Meanwhile defender Jjuuko whose contract with Simba has expired yesterday, his tenure with the club seems to be over after reports unveiled that he might be heading to South Africa. As through his Twitter page, the defender wrote: “It’s a wonderful journey that we always share with each other….. I just want to say thank you for all the good moments.” Meanwhile Bosha Nyanje reports that Rwandan international Issa Bigirimana who has recently signed for Young Africans has expressed hopes to be a key player in his team’s campaign to regain the Mainland Premier League title Bigirimana, who is well known as Walcot by many of his Rwandan football fans, has signed a two-year contract with Young Africa after serving APR. He said he will be free to join other players at the end of Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt late next month. “What I can say for now is just beg the Yanga fans to support us in the coming season, while asking the technical bench to give us skill training so that I and my team mates can deliver the best in the coming league season,” he said. Bigirimana is the second international player signed for Yanga after the former Mukuyu Stars striker Patrick Sibomana signed a two-year contact last week with the Jangwani Street club.