I got home to find my 84 year old grandmother rummaging all her drawers searching for plastic bags. She was on a mission and nothing could or would stop her. She said she received a text message that said that anybody caught with plastic bags past June 1st would be fined and/or arrested. The text message ended with a stern warning that, there would be a search and seize which led to her clearing out her drawers of all the plastic bags she has been collected. Collecting of plastic bags isn’t a foreign concept and is generally considered an African thing because, it is what we do. Especially grandmothers who need something to pack food stuff quickly for visitors as they leave. Just as she was going on with the plastic bag activity, there was a loud speaker passing outside announcing the search for and, immediate apprehension of people who haven’t paid for their water bills. This made my grandmother stop the plastic bag and go into a search for the water bill to make sure that we were up to date with the payments. So many threats and clearly not enough time to process them all. I never thought my 84 year old grandmother would constantly be living in fear of being arrested but it seems these are the times we live in. If it isn’t one warning and threat of being arrested for one thing, it is another thing. You name it- anything at all. I know I speak about this often but I’m an advocate for ensuring that people understand stuff before we lock people up. With all these threats and people living under constants terror, would I be correct in calling this terrorism? I dunno but it seems like the right thing to do. But, then again, it just be me. On the flip side, all the exercise these activities did my grandmother a world of good in terms of exercise. All the bending and lifting she had to do may have been good for her so maybe ultimately, there is balance. As my grandmother is one out of millions of Tanzanians, there is ultimately balance with the people as a whole. With the 2020 elections approaching fast, I expect to see the same type of balance from the people as well. Well, if the balance is slightly off, at least we will be plastic bag, bills and whatever else, free. Twitter: @ambylusekelo