MARA Regional Commissioner (RC) Adam Malima has directed the North Mara Gold Mine General Manager to submit to his office the number of development projects, as well as their values, since they set pace in the area in 2000. He said he wants the documents for scrutiny and their mining activities as well as their implementations towards the Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR). The RC said the implementation of the CSR by the mine was agreed based on different Memorandum of Understanding and with Village based agreements involving the surrounding villages of Nyamwaga, Genkuru, Kewanja, Nyangoto and Kerende, although other several areas have been included on the recent demarcation process. The RC issued the directive, while addressing Councillors as well as Tarime Council civil servants to explain their annual work plan towards the implementation of the ruling party’s manifesto including taking on course the industrialisation agenda, as well as fight graft and corruption in the area. He also ordered the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to initiate investigation against Senior Tarime District Council officials, who are suspected to have misappropriated billions of shillings amounting to 9.4bn/- that was issued by the gold mine as payments of service levy to the local authority since 2015. Mr Malima said the decision to seek an implementation report from the investors was necessary at this moment, because there were continuous grievances from some villagers close to the mine that they still lack reliable social services, while they live in vicinity endowed with mineral potentials. He added that once the report is handed to his office the Regional Financial and Procurement Experts will pass through it to see and identify if there was any misappropriation and misuse of public funds, meant to implement the social projects so that legal actions to be taken. ‘’When I travel through the mineral township of Nyamongo, every time I witness groups of people especially grassroots women complaining that they are compelled to walk longer distances to fetch water from unhygienic conditions, which expose them to several hazards,” he pointed out. He said the government cannot tolerate to see its citizens suffering from unnecessary environmental degradation(s) that can be avoided in the name of investments and urged all mining stakeholders operating in the region to observe and meet the required health standards as stipulated by the laws. ‘’I have tirelessly sought this report from the General Manager in the past so as to make comparisons and identify the value for money in the concerned projects implemented since 2000, but it’s unbecoming that the manager has not taken heed of my directive until now that I’m releasing the last order once and for all,’’ he said. In a related development the RC ordered the mine to embark on tangible strategies to provide clean and safe water to the nearest residents to help them keep off communicable diseases, which erupt as a result of water contamination, and as well save them on incurring expenses to cure the precious liquid. During his working tour of the district last year, President John Magufuli ordered the National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) to collect samples from all water sources and test to ascertain if any is contaminated with harmful substances as a result of the mining activities. The Head of State explained his dissatisfaction with the way the past reports from NEMC were doctored in favour of the investors, at the expense of the local people surrounding them, who were being subjected to unavoidable environmental and health hazards.