THE government has reiterated that medical surgery for expectant mothers are offered free of charge in all public health facilities, warning medics who are still forcing the mothers to pay for the service. Acting Reproductive Child Health Coordinator at the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and children, Ms Agnes Mgaya, gave the warning over the weekend in Dar es Salaam. She said the government sets the budget and sends money directly to all the public medical centres for purchase of all the medical surgery equipment required for conducting operations on females who require the services. “Medical surgery for expectant mothers is for free in all government medical centres. For those who (medical centres) provide the services on the basis of acquiring money are violating the set directives,” she said. She called upon members of the public to volunteer information about nurses or doctors who are charging expectant mothers seeking such services at their health facilities. Ms Mgaya was speaking over the weekend during a workshop for journalists on a campaign aimed at reducing maternal deaths in the country. The campaign dubbed ‘Jiongeze Tuwavushe Salama’ aims at engaging the larger public in a discussion around child and newborn survival issues, thereby making them realize that they have an important role to play to ensure every child strives and thrives. Speaking during the workshop, the Communication Specialist at the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Ms Usia Ledema noted that the training came at the right time when the country needed a comprehensive intervention to help curb maternal deaths in the country. She said official reports show that maternal mortality remains stubbornly high in the country with more than 8,200 mothers dying every year from pregnancy related causes or during childbirth. On the other hand, 312 children (Under-5) die every day due to communicable diseases like malaria, pneumonia and diarrhoea as 40 per cent of the deaths happen in the first month of life. The UNICEF Communication Department Officer, Ms Alam Tahseen said the simple affordable solutions that exist should reach the children and mothers who need them most by placing functional health facilities within the reach of every mother and baby. She mentioned another solution as the need for having equipped midwives and other workers as well as tools needed to keep every child and mother healthy and availability of life saving drugs and equipment. The campaign is implemented jointly by the government (Ministry of Health), UNICEF and True Vision Production and was launched by Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan in November last year to help reduce maternal and newborn deaths.