THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) yesterday named Herry Sasii as the central referee who will officiate the historic friendly match between Simba and Sevilla on Thursday. The Spanish giants are set to land in the country today ready for the big match at the 60,000 capacity National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Speaking to members of the media, TFF Director of Competitions Salum Madadi said Sasii will be backed by Mohammed Mkono from Tanga and Soud Lila of Dar es Salaam while the fourth official will be Jonesia Rukyaa. “All these referees have FIFA badges and it is our hope that they will be fair to both sides. As federation, we have no doubts about their ability,” Madadi said. He then commended SportPesa Tanzania for its efforts to improve football standards in the country saying their impact is highly recognised by the federation. Earlier, SportPesa Tanzania Director of Administration and Compliance Abbas Tarimba urged Simba to use the same rhythm they have been applying in the CAF Champions League in order to defeat the visitors. “The pride which you will get after thumping Sevilla will definitely worth more than any amount money you can think of. Tanzanians expect nothing less than a victory as such, play to win,” Tarimba said. He added that Sevilla tour will be proceeded with various football clinics which will be run as one way to propel youth football development in the country. “Apart from the clinics, Sevilla contingent will also hold meetings with officials from TFF on how they can maximise profits from different activities they do,” said him. On top of that, Tarimba revealed that Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe will be the guest of honour on the match day. In his remarks, Simba SC Communication Officer Haji Manara insisted that they are well prepared to face Sevilla and called fans to make another history by filling the venue to capacity. “During our CAF Champions League, our supporters had a marvelous attendance record as they, on several occasions, packed the National Stadium to the limit. Now, we are talking about a Spanish team, we need to break the previous attendance records,” Manara said. He further explained that Sevilla’s tour will also play a big role towards promoting the country on the world map and that can greatly be achieved since Sevilla is well known globally. Additionally, Manara lauded SportPesa for making the match possible and working tirelessly to upgrade football levels in the nation. The lowest entry charge on the day is 5,000/- and the highest is 100,000/- respectively.