INCLEMENT of weather forced organisers to halt the coronation of 2018/19 League champions- Simba, shifting it to Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro on May 28. It was previously announced that Simba will be officially handed over their league championship title during their yesterday’s match against Biashara United at a water logged National stadium in Dar es Salaam, before being postponed to May 28 after the end of a league match between Simba and Mtibwa Sugar. The postponement and shifting the silverware celebration to Morogoro was officially confirmed at the National Stadium by Tanzania Premier League Board’s Chief Executive Officer(CEO) Chairman Boniface Wambura soon after the end of Simba-Biashara match. Wambura made clear that the handing over ceremony failed to take place due to downpour which also deeply affected the attendance at 60-seater stadium. “The championship trophy will be handed to Simba on May 28 during their final league match against Mtibwa Sugar at Jamhuri Stadium,” announced Wambura. It was a fight for ball and fight against pools of water when hard fighting Biashara United fought to a 1-1 draw with the league champions Simba. Biashara United, one of the teams very close to relegation line, fought brilliantly in all 90 minutes and a point they grabbed was a big relief. Biashata United are now placed 12th with 44 points from 37 games. Still they must win their last league game on Tuesday, May 28 to ensure their Premier League stay next season. To Simba, it was just a pride restoration match as they were already declared champs prior to the yesterday’s duel with Biashara United. The match that started at 3:00 pm, saw Biashara United starting seriously with many power-packed raids at Simba goalmouth. It was during one of the early attempts that earned Biashara an opener. It was in the 14th minute Innocent Edwin netted the opener with powerful volley that beat Simba goalie Deogratius Munishi. However, Simba responded strongly and it took them just 3 minutes to level the score through Clatous Chama who headed home Emannuel Okwi’s cross from left flank in the 17th minute. After the two goals it was attack and counter attack, though it was Simba whose raids looked lethal. Most often Simba strikers, especially the team captain John Bocco and Meddie Kagere looked menacingly dangerous when they raided Biashara goal. In another league match held yesterday at Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete Youth Park in Dar es Salaam, JKT Tanzania defeated Kagera Sugar 2-0. The victory at least removed JKT Tanzania from relegation danger, though they are not completely safe. The match had to be played at JMK Youth Park because Major Isamuyo ground, the JKT Tanzania’s home ground was affed by downpour. Hassan Matalema scored the opener for JKT Tanzania in the 26th minute and added the second in the stoppage time. Simba SC: Deo Munishi ‘Dida’, Nicholas Gyan, Mohammed Hussein ‘Tshabalala’, Erasto Nyoni, Pascal Wawa, Muzamil Yassin, Clatous Chama, Haruna Niyonzima/Hassan Dilunga (71st min, John Bocco, Meddie Kagere and Emmanuel Okwi. Biashara United; Nourdine Balora, Derrick Mussa, Nassib Mpapi, Lameck Chamkaga, Abdulmajid Mangalo/Kauswa Bernard(69th min), Wilfred Nkouluma, Juma Mpakala, Taro Donald, Tariq Seif, Innocent Edwin and George Makang’a.