SIMIYU Regional Commissioner (RC) Anthony Mtaka has said Tanzanians and development stakeholders should support the government’s strategic plan to curb maternal deaths through ‘Jiongeze Tuwavushe Salama’ campaign (Let’s Do Something to Save their Lives campaign). By 2020 the government, through the Health Sector Strategic Plan 111 2016-2020 (HSSP IV), aims at reducing the maternal mortality ratio to 292 per 100,000 live births from the current 556 deaths per 100,000 live births. The plan also intends to reduce the number of newborn deaths from 21 to 16 per 1,000 live births and under five mortality from 54 to 40 per cent per 1,000 live births. Speaking after the launch of ‘Jiongeze Tuwavushe Salama’ campaign at regional level, Mr Mtaka said President John Maguli’s government had been fighting against maternal deaths and that was why each RC had committed oneself to reducing maternal deaths. “Let’s play our part and support the government’s initiative to fight against maternal and newborn deaths through collective responsibility,” he said. He said every citizen had to ensure pregnant women and newborn babies were saved from dying of maternal complications by encouraging them to attend to clinic and be vaccinated to prevent them from contracting communicable diseases like polio. He urged men to escort their wives or partners to clinic during pregnancy and ensure expected mothers and their newborn children were vaccinated as required. Since the launch of the national campaign in Dodoma, President Magufuli’s government had issued billions of shillings in various regions for the construction of hospitals at regional and district levels. Mr Mtaka said the government had set aside Sh7bn/- for the construction of Simiyu Regional Hospital and Sh1.5 (for each district) for the construction of hospitals in Busega, Bariadi and Itilima districts. According to UNFPA Deputy Representative, Dr Hashina Begum, about 11,000 mothers die every year during pregnancy and childbirth (about 30 per day) and 40,000 newborns die every year. She said the number had remained stagnant for about 10 years. The deaths are due to complications during pregnancy and childbirth. ‘Jiongeze Tuwavushe Salama campaign’ was launched on November 6, 2018 in Dodoma by its matron, Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan and was attended by all regional commissioners (RCs), who committed themselves to implementing it in their respective regions. The camping, which is under the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, is being supported by different health stakeholders, including Unicef Tanzania.