THE Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries has tabled a proposal to abolish ten levies, to facilitate growth of the sector, the National Assembly was told here yesterday. Tabling his ministry’s budget estimates for 2019/20 financial year, Minister Luhaga Mpina said the earmarked levies were preventing livestock keepers and fishermen from making maximum profits from their produce. “We felt it wise to scrap the levies because they were hampering small-scale livestock keepers and fishermen from conducting their business smoothly,” he said. Mr Mpina said they were proposing to do away with a licence for transportation of milk below 51 litres; abolish centres for collection of milk below 201 litres, abolish registration of milk producers with the capacity of less than 51 litres as well as do away with the registration of milk supplements’ distributors. The list of the proposed levies for abolition also includes registration of small, middle and large livestock keepers; and registration of supervisors of livestock auctioning centres at primary, secondary levels as well as at border areas. According to minister Mpina, the list also has proposed abolishing levies on registration of auctioning centres at primary and secondary level and border areas; abolition of registration of businessmen and women conducting their activities in auctioning centres at primary, secondary level and border areas; and abolition of registration of business people engaged in meat import as well as abolishing licences for transporting poultry within the country. In another development Tanzania is experiencing massive industrial investments in the livestock sector, after the government through the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, created a favourable investment environment. Tabling his ministry’s budget estimates for the 2019/2020 financial year, Minister Luhaga Mpina told the National Assembly yesterday that the livestock and fisheries sector is also experiencing rapid trade growth in the 2018/2019 financial year as it is set to record a trade volume amounting to 6.57trn/-. He said that the ministry, through National Ranching Company (NARCO), has signed a deal worth 50 million US dollars (about 111bn/-), with an Egyptian Company for Africa Investment (NECAI),for the implementation of the Integrated Rural Development Project (IRDP) at Ruvu Ranch. He noted that the project includes construction of a modern abattoir capable of handling 1,500 cows, 4500 goat/sheep for a single shift of four hours. He said other factories to be set up in the livestock value chain include one for processing hides and skins raw materials for the sustainable production of leather products. Mr Mpina said that construction of the 41bn/- livestock vaccination factory, Hester Bioscience Africa Limited, is being finalised in Kibaha, Coast Region. It will be capable of producing 27 different types of vaccinations currently being imported. He said production will begin by February next year. Another factory is TAN CHOICE in Kibaha, Coast Region, with the capacity to handle 1,000 cows, 4,500 goats/sheep per day. He said its construction will cost 12bn/- and production is due to begin in September this year, employing 500 workers. He said another factory— Elia Food and Overseas Limited will be capable of handling 400 cows, 2,000 goats/sheep per day is also being set up in Longido, Arusha Region. The factory that will cost 11.3bn/- and create employment opportunities for at least 200 people is due to begin production this September. The list also has Dairy Galaxy Food and Beverage Limited in Arusha Region, which is capable of processing 75,000 litres of milk per day and has employed 30 workers for a start. The investment of the project amounted to 5.7bn/- . Minister Mpina said the investments will help to ease many of the challenges currently facing livestock keepers in the country and massively improve the sector’s value chain. He reiterated efforts and firm commitment of the government to enhance the development of the livestock sector through attracting more investments. “We are committed to improving this sector and we strongly believe that, the livestock resources available and proper use of various experts opinions can be utilised to transform livelihoods among farmers and other stakeholders in the livestock value chain,” he said. He insisted that Tanzania has outstanding natural resources for livestock development, including resilient breeds, extensive rangelands and diverse natural vegetation. In the area of fisheries, Minister Mpina said there was massive improvement, which contributed 1.71 per cent in the country’s GDP in 2018, which represents 9.2 per cent growth.