THE situation at Mkwajuni area in Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam turned ugly when the police crashed with members and supporters of Chadema when they were demonstrating a day before the Kinondoni Constituency’s by-elections held on February 17, 2018. “Some shops were closed when the police fired teargas bombs to disperse Chadema members, who were demonstrating from Morocco area along Kawawa Road towards Magomeni area,” a prosecution witness, Mr Shaban Abdallah, told a Dar es Salaam Court yesterday. The second prosecution witness was testifying in the sedition trial of nine senior officers of the country’s main opposition party, including the National Chairman Freeman Mbowe, at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in the city. Led by prosecution’s team, comprising Principal State Attorney Paul Kadushi, the witness, who is a welder technician, told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba that on February 16, 2018, he arrived at his working place at Mkwajuni area in the morning as usual. He testified that things went well until around 17.00 hours to 18.00pm when his boss gave him some money to buy some materials at a shop owned by Baba Mdogo or Baba John, opposite theirs along Kawawa Road. According to the witness, while making some calculations, they heard some noise coming from the Morocco area direction. He testified that with the passage of time, he saw a group of people along the road coming from Morocco heading to Magomeni area. “These people were armed with stones and clubs. We recognised them as Chadema supporters as some were carrying flags, wearing t-shirts and head scarves of the party,” he told the court. The witness further explained that as the demonstrators were moving towards the direction where he was standing, he managed to see some of the party leaders who were leading the demonstration. He named some of them as Mbowe, Ester Matiko and Halima Mdee. A few moment later, he said, some police officers who were in a car arrived at the area and, through a loud speaker, commanded the demonstrators to disperse. The witness said, however, that he heard Mbowe encouraging the members to advance towards the police and they started throwing stones and clubs. Mr Abdallah further told the court that the police were forced to use tear gas bombs to disperse the demonstrators. He said that the situation became tense, as shops around the areas were closed and he and Baba John ran away. Apart from Mbowe, Matiko, who is a Member of Parliament (MP) for Tarime Urban and Mdee, the MP for Kawe, other accused persons in the trial are Vicent Mashinji, the party’s Secretary General and John Mnyika, the Deputy Secretary General (Mainland). The rest are Salum Mwalimu, the Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar), Peter Msigwa, the MP for Iringa Urban, John Heche, the MP for Tarime Rural and Ester Bulaya, MP for Bunda Urban. The accused persons are charged with 11 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, unlawful assembly, rioting after proclamation, and inciting commission of offences, raising discontent and ill-will for unlawful purposes and sedition allegedly committed between February 1 and 16, 2018 in the city. The prosecution alleges that on February 16, 2018 along Kawawa Road at Mkwajuni area, being assembled with intent to carry out a common purpose, jointly and together, all accused persons conducted themselves in such a manner as to cause a fear of breach of peace. It is claimed further that on the same day and place, with more than 12 other persons not in court, having riotously assembled, in disobedience of proclamation given by a police officer, the accused persons failed to disperse and continued to take part in the riot. Thereby, according to the prosecution, the accused persons breached the peace and terrified the public, culminating in the death of National Institute of Transport (NIT) Student, Akwilina Akwiline Baftaa, and injury of two police officers, Police Constable Fikiri and Corporal Rahim Msangi. According to the prosecution, on the same day at Buibui grounds, while addressing Kinondoni residents at a public meeting, Mbowe, Mdee and Heche issued statements likely to raise discontent and promote feelings of ill-will amongst the inhabitants of the United Republic of Tanzania. The prosecution alleged further that Mbowe, in related offences, made seditious statements with the intention of bringing hatred and contempt to the citizens of the United Republic of Tanzania against the lawful authority of the government. It is alleged further that on the same day at Buibui grounds, Mbowe, Msigwa and Bulaya with other persons not in court, jointly incited the residents of Kinondoni District in the city to commit offences of unlawful assembly, going armed in public and rioting.