EDUCATION, Science and Technology Minister Professor Joyce Ndalichako has ordered the demotion of Vocational Education and Training Authority’s (VETA) South West Zone Director Justine Rutta over ineptitude. The minister has directed VETA Director General Dr Pancras Bujulu to demote Mr Rutta over charges of poor supervision of the construction of the authority’s Rukwa Regional College. M/s Tendar International Ltd from China is executing the over 10bn/- project at Muva area in municipality here under the African Development Bank (AfDB) funding. Prof Ndalichako issued the order after visiting and inspecting the construction works, uncovering foul play on the part of contractor—Tendar International— including massive bleach of contract. The minister discovered that all the key personnel who were listed on the contract had been replaced without informing VETA management. “All key personnel, including project engineer and safety inspector who had been listed on the contract have been replaced without a formal letter,” charged the minister. She added, “I don’t recognise you (Ding Fubing) as the project engineer because your name does not appear on the contract...your presence here is illegal and you have no authority to talk over the fund that the government has released to the contractor.” “Even the contract does not recognise you, so don’t talk too much here,” fumed the minister. Prof Ndalichako, briefing reporters at the construction site, said she will today form a probe team to find out how the contractor won the contract and why bleached it through mobilisation of obsolete equipment to the site as well as subcontracting two other companies without the knowledge of VETA leadership. She further said that she will instruct the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Dr Leonard Akwilapo to immediately visit the project site. “I have been deeply saddened by the zonal leadership. VETA director here (Mr Rutta) behaves as if he is working for the project contractor, he is defending the contractor despite of all the challenges, including violation of the contract terms. I’m directing VETA Director General to demote the centre director (Mr Rutta) because he is unfit for this position,” she charged. Speaking over the project, Prof Ndalichako expressed her anger over the slow speed of works despite the government having already disbursed over 2.1bn/- between November last year and April this year. “Another thing that has saddened me is to learn that the iron bars have already rusted, I want all of them to be tested and if found unfit, they must be disposed off and the contractor ordered to replace them at own cost,” she added. She further said, “the works sector in this country is a big headache as most of the contractors are not honest... let me warn contractor working in projects under my docket to change their behaviour…we will never tolerate dishonesty and I will squarely deal with them, particularly those winning contracts dubiously.” Earlier, Mr Rutta briefed the minister, saying the contractor has been registered with the Contractors Registration Board (CRB) as Class One contractor under the foreign category. He said to date civil works have reached 25.6 per cent and once the construction of the project is accomplished it will have the capacity to accommodate between 1,600 and 2,000 students for short and long-term courses.