AN investment company and its Somali national directors have lost their bids to challenge payments of over 10bn/- to a pan-African finance institution created to exclusively support the development of the African real estate and housing sector. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Stella Mugasha and Richard Mziray ruled in favour of Company for Habitat and Housing in Africa, also known as Shelter Afrique, after dismissing the appeal by Integrated Property Investments (Tanzania) Limited and its directors, Mr Omari Abdi Ali and Suleiman Abdi Dualeh. In the appeal, the appellants were challenging the decision of the High Court’s Commercial Division, which dismissed their application for leave to appear to defend a summary suit and the entering of a default judgment in favour of the African financial institution on payments of 5,326,791.54 US dollars. However, in their judgment, the justices of the appeals court held that the summary suit entered by the trial court was like an exparte judgment, which could be set aside. They ruled, therefore, that the appellants should have first applied to set aside the decree instead of filing the appeal. “Since the appellants are complaining that their application for leave to defend was dismissed without being afforded the right to be heard, to apply to set aside the decree is, in our view, a proper course which should have been taken,” the justices said. They pointed out that in case of dissatisfaction with the outcome, the appellants could appeal against that decision. “We find that this appeal has been misconceived. The same is dismissed with costs. The appellants are at liberty to apply to set aside the decree in accordance with the law,” they declared. Indeed, the appellants went back to the High Court where they lodged an application, seeking for extension of time within which to file another application for orders setting aside the dismissal of the application for leave to appear and defend the suit. The High Court dismissed the application too. The respondent, the Company for Habitat and Housing in Africa (Shelter Afrique), was the plaintiff in the High Court of Tanzania (Commercial Division) in Dar es Salaam. It instituted the suit against the appellants, Integrated Property Investment (T) Limited, Omar Abdi Ali and Suleiman Abdi Dualeh. In the suit, the respondent claimed against the appellants for a sum of USD 5,326,791.54, interest on the sum from the date of demand letter at the rate set out in the loan agreement amounting to USD 431,990.81 and for appointment of receiver manager with powers to sell mortgaged properties. The dispute arose from a loan agreement entered between the investment company and the respondent. The appellants secured a loan of USD 5,000,000 from the respondent upon a legal mortgage over a property situated at Ununio, Kunduchi area in Kinondoni municipality within the city. The property was held under certificate of title in the name of Mr Ali and Mr Dualeh, who were until the material time of the agreement, the directors of the foreign company and guaranteed the loan through execution of personal guarantees thereof. Following a dispute over repayment of the loan, the respondent instituted the suit in the trial court. The appellants were subsequently served with summons informing them that they would, within twenty one days from the date of service of the summons, apply for leave to appear and defend the suit. On June 5, 2015, the appellants filed an application to that effect. In response, the respondent raised a preliminary objection challenging the competence of the application. On July 6, 2015 when the application was called on for hearing of the objection, the appellants did not enter appearance. Consequently, the trial judge made an order to the effect that the appellants failed to enter appearance to pursue their application and no reasons for their failure was shown. The judge proceeded to dismiss the application for non-appearance. On that same date after having dismissed the application, the trial judge went on to determine the suit by entering a “default judgment,” holding that the allegations in the plaint were deemed to be demitted, and the plaintiff was entitled to a judgment and decree as prayed in the summary suit. In summary suit, the defendant is not entitled to defend as a matter of right as is the case in an ordinary suit, has to obtain the leave of the court to defend. If the court refuses to grant him leave to defend, then the suit is decreed immediately. Default judgment is a binding judgment in favour of either party based on some failure to take action by the other party. Most often, it is a judgment in favour of a plaintiff when the defendant has not responded to a summons or has failed to appear before a court of law.