THE foundation stone for the ambitious 2,115MW Rufiji Hydro Project will be laid by July this year, Deputy Minister for Energy, Ms Subira Mgalu told Parliament yesterdayShe gave the good news during the winding up of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism 2019/20 budget estimates. She said the environmental impact assessment had cleared and endorsed for the start of the project. The project is worth $2.9bn (equivalent to 6.5tri/-) and will be implemented in the next 36 months by the Egyptian Arab Contractors Company. Ms Mgalu said the project would be a milestone in the government’s vision to become a middle-income country since it was expected to boost the industrial sector. The deputy minister reiterated the government’s previous statement that the project was environmentally-friendly since it would reduce the deforestation rate for domestic charcoal and firewood consumption in the country. The project will also create thousands of employment opportunities and increase industrial production and pave the way for international market penetration. Arab Contractors signed a contract to design and construct the dam and power plant in October 2018. The construction of the facility will involve building a main dam and appurtenant structures, with expected reserCOMPANY919420007951030016voir length of 100km, covering an area of about 1,350 square kilometres. The height of the dam is 134 metres. The deputy minister noted that since all pre-construction assignments were complete, by July the foundation stone would be laid ready for the project construction take-off. The Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, said the government had concrete plans to make the project a success from local funds. “As the country moves towards an industrial economy, energy is extremely important because we want to assure investors and industrialist of affordable and reliable power supply,” said Dr Kijaji. She explained that the government had already reimbursed 688.6m/- as initial payment ahead of the start of the project. “We do not need a loan or grant for Rufiji Hydro Power Project. It is going to be constructed through our own sources of money,” she insisted