TANZANIA Chamber of Commerce in Europe (TCCE) is arranging for some 250 farmers and businesspeople in agriculture sector in the country to participate in the Irish biggest fair this September. The preparations, according to the newly established chamber, are in full swing to enable those in the sector to exhibit and tour the major event— National Ploughing Championships in Ireland. The Chamber Founder and President, Ms Edna Lyatuu Hogan, said the initiative is planned to engage partnership with various stakeholders and funders in Tanzania to enable participants to take part in the largest Irish agriculture fair. “ While in Ireland they will exhibit at the National Ploughing Championships event, the biggest agri fair in Ireland, attended by close to half million people,” Ms Hogan told the ‘Daily News’. The funders include Embassies in Tanzania, UN Agencies and NGOs for funding, and local banks for soft loans. The participants will also exchange knowledge with their Irish counterparts, exhibit their products and participate in farming-related tours around the country. The newly established chamber is headquartered in Ireland and has already attracted 50 members. However she said, despite of targeting to woo 250 participants from the country, “ [ the] number of participants will depend on the availability of funding or people who can qualify for soft loans.” Ms Hogan, a former volunteer at the Dun Laoghaire- Rathdown County Council Chamber is a banker by trade and has lived in south Dublin for the past 15 years. She said the chamber aims to help local businesses get access to new markets and give them an opportunity to grow internationally. The chamber also set to boost trade link between Tanzania and Ireland businesses and start-ups. The Irish would benefit hugely with the new market in a fast growing economy like Tanzania with 54 million people. The chamber was set up with help from the Tanzanian government via its embassies in United Kingdom and Sweden. “ The chamber will also help Tanzanian businesses and start-ups access markets, form partnerships and secure investments in Ireland, the rest of Europe and USA,” Ms Hogan said. Moreover, small to large size Irish firms are keen to invest in energy, IT and education, gas, agriculture, mining and other sectors, also form partnerships with Tanzanian businesses in various sectors. In addition, Ireland also has strong education ties with Tanzania through Institute of Finance Management (IFM) in partnership with DIT-Dublin Institute of Technology, scholarships for SUA students to study at UCD University College Dublin in agri-related courses and many projects that are funded by the Irish Aid in Tanzania.