TANZANIA Cigarette Public Limited Company (TCC Plc) has emerged number one in the Manufacturing sector and scooped the Award for Occupational Safety & Health (AOSH) during this year’s event. This was part of the commemoration of World Day for Health and Safety at Work which was nationally marked in Mbeya this year and went along with Safety and Health exhibitions organised by OSHA and graced by the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, for Policy, Parliament, Labour, Youth, Employment and the Disabled, Jenista Mhagama. The Minister lauded TCC Plc for the achievement while presenting the award and called on other institutions to follow suit and invest more on health and safety at work. Speaking during the awards, the TCC Plc Environment, Health and Safety Supervisor, Protas Kangalawe explained about a new programme known as ‘Wesafe’ recently rolled out by Japan Tobacco International (JTI). Among other things Wesafe aims at ensuring the safety of employees from when they leave home to work and back home. Mr Kangalawe further stated that TCC Plc believes in effective health and safety management that goes well beyond complying with legislations. He added that the company’s environmental health and safety standards often go beyond legal requirements and TCC’s scope extends beyond their employees to cover contractors on sites and visitors at their premises. “We have been getting visitors from all over to learn best practices in safety and health and just recently we were visited by members of the Standing Committee for Women Development, Information and Tourism from Zanzibar House of Representatives, who came to learn more about environment, health and safety,” he said. With regards to the OSHA exhibitions, he said they were able to exhibit a number of personal protective equipment (PPE) used by TCC Plc employees to minimise accidents in the workplace in a bid to promote the government’s industrialisation drive. He noted that TCC Plc has achieved 2,664 days without a single workplace related injury (lost time injuries). “Having no LTIs (Lost Time Injuries) for seven consecutive years denotes that safety culture is well entrenched at TCC Plc.” On his part, the TCC Plc People and Culture Associate, Abel Chinoga said they managed to scoop the award because as a company, they have gone an extra mile in not just investing in employees’ physical health but also invested a lot in mental and psychological health. “TCC Plc believes that it is not enough to only provide employees with personal protective equipment (PPE), they should also be trained regularly and reminded on the dangers of not using the equipment,” he said. On mental and psychological health, he said TCC Plc has been using professional psychologists to talk to employees on the dangers of stress and depression and assisting those who require psychological support. He said TCC Plc has also provided a nursing room for breastfeeding mothers who pump milk in a safe and clean environment. According to Mr Chinoga, this has proved successful as employees are happier hence increasing efficiency and reducing accidents at work. OSHA Ag. Chief Executive Hadija Mwenda said issues to do with health and safety at work are cross-cutting as it covers everyone regardless of whether they are self-employed or employed. She called on employers, employees and the public in general to ensure they follow the health and safety standards set by the government.