THE Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) has continued to bring smiles to poor families through its programmes, this time benefiting poor communities in Njombe by availing proper basic social services such as education, health and infrastructure to them. The programmes are considered to be integral in preparing strong human capital, especially from poor communities, ready to contribute to the country’s workforce. Such commitment is being witnessed through its projects involving the construction of classrooms, toilet holes in schools, teacher’s residence and health facilities among others. TASAF Coordinator at Njombe Township Council, Mr Peter Magema pointed this out when a team of journalists visited some of the projects which are being implemented by the agency with the support from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Mr Magema identified such projects to include the construction of five classrooms, nine toilet holes and two teacher’s houses at Madobole Primary School which is located in Madobole village. Others include a dispensary worth 74m /- at Ikisa village, where its construction is expected to be completed on May 5, this year. Besides the above, the agency also embarked on six projects which involved the rehabilitation of road infrastructure at a cost of 75m /- in villages such as Ihanga, Itupila, Igominyi, Mbega and Makowoho. “All the projects fall under the targeted infrastructure (IT) component because it is the communities themselves who are responsible for identifying the nature of the project, basing on their own needs, therefore they decided to select these particular ones,” said Mr Magema. He noted that the construction work at Madobole Primary School amounted to over 200m /-, with desks for the five classrooms being included. The Chairperson of the implementation of the Project at Madobole Primary School, Edmund Msemwa observed the reason for selecting the particular area was due to a challenge which the village was facing in the education sector. “Comparing the previous situation with the current one, there is a big relief. The condition of the previous classrooms was outdated and unsafe for our children as they allowed water to penetrate inside due to worn out windows and floor,” noted Msemwa. Madobole Primary School Head Teacher, Mr Crispin Mlingwa revealed that the school’s transformation has increased the student’s morale of going to school. “We are very grateful to TASAF for the timely assistance. When the construction for the teacher’s toilets was completed, it happened at that particular time the pupil’s toilet had sunk. We had to request permission for them to use the toilets, otherwise the situation would have been worse,” he said.