YOUNG Africans skipper Ibrahim Ajib has written a farewell message on his instagram page as he expects to start new life at DR Congo giants TP Mazembe next season. Ajib’s move to TP Mazembe was recently confirmed by Yanga Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera who said for the past three weeks, they have been in talks with Mazembe over his playmaker and that he (Ajib) will join Mazembe not Simba SC as earlier reported. Zahera heaped praises on Ajibu calling him multi talented player who is hardworking and uses a lot of his brain while on the pitch. The coach then dashed claims that the departure of Ajib will make his side weak bearing in mind that he is leaving after recording more goal assists than any other player in the league for this season. “When Ajibu leaves, we will get another Ajib to continue doing the good job at the club,” Zahera said. Zahera further exposed that before he leaves the country for holiday in Europe at month end, he will name the full squad members of his team who will trade in next season’s league assignments. He said the squad will comprise eight new faces with six of them bought from outside the country while the other two are Tanzanians. However, on his Instagram account, Ajib wrote: “In my football career, I have learnt many things. I was lucky to play for many teams but I will never forget to acknowledge Simba SC because they made me who I am today.” He continued: “In a special way, let me thank Haji Manara for his encouragements to me and other players who passed through Simba.” Ajibu further wrote: “A lot of thanks should go to Yanga SC and the two years I have spent here have been amazing for me despite encountering life challenges. The love from Yanga fans is extraordinary and kept us moving in difficult times.” “I have nothing to pay them back apart from thanking them. The fans valued and respected us even though we annoyed them at some points,” Ajib wrote. He added: “I leave all my love at Yanga and I will be with you all the time. I will remember all the good things you did to us. Let me wish all the best to the management and technical bench of the team. God bless you all.” Ajibu has since been recalled to join the national football team Taifa Stars squad which is expected to regroup shortly to start preparations for the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) whose finals will be played in Egypt.