THE National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), in collaboration with public hospitals, is preparing a special arrangement for its members to get dengue fever diagnosis in the affected regions. However, according to the Public Service Act, 2009, the government provides diagnosis and treatment of dengue fever free of charge to all individuals diagnosed with the disease regardless of whether they are NHIF members or not. So far cases of dengue have been reported in Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Singida. According to a statement issued by NHIF yesterday under such legislation, all patients, including NHIF members, will get services free of charge in public hospitals identified, including regional referral hospitals. “The hospitals we are working with include Amana, Mnazi Mmoja, Mwananyamala, Temeke, Bombo and Singida regional hospital,” part of the statement reads. It further reads that dengue fever is one of the epidemics like Cholera and Ebola in which the government has put special arrangements to deal with them in accordance with the Public Health Act, 2009. NHIF advises its members to take preventive measures, such as covering water containers in homes and destroying mosquito breeding grounds. Dengue fever is a mosquito- borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Symptoms typically begin three to 14 days after infection. This may include high fever, headache, vomiting, muscle and joint pains and a characteristic skin rash. Recovery generally takes two to seven days. The worst dengue outbreakin Tanzania was in 2014, when more than 400 people in Dar es Salaam were diagnosed with the disease. Three people, including a doctor, who reportedly caught it while attending to patients, died. On Thursday it was reported that 1,237 cases of the dengue haemorrhagic fever had been reported in Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Singida regions as of May since the outbreak of the mosquito-borne tropical disease in January. The figures were disclosed by Chief Medical Officer, Prof Mohammed Kambi, pointing out that 1,150 of the cases were reported in Dar es Salaam, 86 cases in Tanga and one case in Singida. “At least 82 cases of dengue fever were reported in February, 159 cases in March and 940 in April,” he noted, pointing out that two dengue-related deaths had been reported so far. He said the people suspected of having died as a result of dengue fever were also suffering from other diseases, urging members of the public to take precautions against the disease. Prof Kambi said the government, through regional authorities, was monitoring the prevalence of the dengue virus to control it.