THE country needs banks with strong financial muscles to drive the industrialisation mission and lending to large economic projects agenda internally, the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) said yesterday. BoT Deputy Governor, Financial Stability and Deepening, Dr Benard Kibesse, said that the few existing larger lenders could arrange loan syndications instead of the current trend whereby largest finances are undertaken outside the country. Dr Kibesse added that having such banks would assist to quicken economic development using internally generated funds. “These banks with strong balance sheets [such as CRDB] make it easier to arrange finance for large infrastructure projects instead of seeking the funds from abroad,” Dr Kibesse said on the sidelines of the CRDB business forum. He said the recent loan arrangement led by CRDB that partnered with United Bank for Africa (UBA) for Rufiji Hydropower Project to the tune of 1.7tri/- was a good stage, which the central bank wants other lenders to reach. Recently, CRDB and UBA offered a guarantee to contractors of Rufiji Hydropower Project. The amount is 30 per cent of local component for the entire project, which is set to cost 6.6tri/-. Upon its completion, the mega project is expected to generate 2,100MW. The remaining 70 per cent is an international component that is offered by global lenders. Dr Kibesse, who was the chief guest at the forum, said after two years of ups and downs for the financial sector, now it “seems to be out of the woods” based on last year lenders’ performance. “The sector trend is changing for the better, from negative to positive growth,” Dr Kibesse said. The industry, according to BoT, last year grew by around 8.0 per cent from negative 2.0 per cent over the last two years. He said the duty of the central bank was to create enabling environments for the sector to operate smoothly. “We [BoT] are very pleased to see banks posting excellent growth…this shows that there are good and enabling environments for lenders,” Dr Kibesse said. During the forum, CRDB showcased to its customers and investors its growing business portfolio and future of the bank in a digitalised world. The bank’s Managing Director, Mr Abdulmajid Nsekele, said they want to reach clients using digital tools such as sim banking, internet and agent banking while continuing to maintain its market leadership. “The future is about using alternative banking channels to reach many,” Mr Nsekela said. He added that the bank also maintains a strong balance sheet. CRDB has revamped its branches outlook where some will also offer seamless advisory services to clients. “The idea is to simplify our services while building investors-bank relationship backed by a highly disciplined workforce…using fintech,” Mr Nsekela said. The largest lender in the economy with diversified lending portfolio stressed that it wants to extend further its loans to SMEs and agricultural sector for eco-growth. “The bank has created a special account for tobacco growers that not only enables them to lend and repay back promptly but also retain some savings,” he told the audience full of investors. The tobacco growers managed to save some 16bn/- at the end of the last season. The bank said it targets to register 10,000 Fahari Huduma agents this year, up from current 3,500 agents. The number of agents will enable them to tap into 20 million mobile money subscribers across the country. CRDB, one of the top five lenders in East Africa, loans grew by 1.1 per cent to reach 3.2tri/- in this year’s first quarter from 3.1tri/- last year. Last year’s deposit reached 4.7tri/- and total assets 6.0tri/-. CRDB is the first bank in Tanzania to be rated amongst the top ten stable and safer to invest African banks by the world’s most respected rating agency, Moody`s Investors Services. Moody`s rated the lender with a “B1 stable outlook”, which is the highest rating to have been acquired by banks or financial institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa.