MPANDA town in Katavi Region yesterday became the latest place to be connected with Tigo 4G networks to provide customers with best voice, internet and mobile money services. The 4G networks offer much more coverage than other systems such as WiFi, which forces users to depend upon hotspots in each area visited. It offers coverage of 30 miles and more, giving and assuring users complete connectivity at all times. Mpanda District Commissioner (DC), Ms Lilian Matinga commended Tigo for the job well done and that the upgraded site will propel the socio-economic activities of residents in the district. “The upgraded site will facilitate trade, tourism, and the agricultural activities that we do here in Mpanda at greater pace,” she said. Tigo’s Regional Sales Manager for the Southern Zone, Francis Ndada said that the upgrading of the network site from 3G to 4G means customers in Mpanda town will now have faster and easier access to their services. “Our priority is to ensure our customers get access to modern and state of the art technology such as 4G,” he said adding, the 4G technology has increased accessibility to mobile broadband, opening rural communities to previously elusive services such as e-commerce, e-health, e-education and e-government, eventually transforming the way people learn and do business. Tigo customers in Mpanda town will get access to a special offer, where customers swapping their SIM cards to 4G will be awarded with 4GB free internet to be used within seven days. He said the site launch cements Tigo’s commitment to support the National ICT policy and Government’s industrialization efforts by investing in network expansion and improvement to enable the entire country to experience the wide array of economic, educational and social advantages that result from digital connectivity. The Mpanda town site is the third upgraded site to be launched after Kilolo, Iringa and Bariadi, Simiyu. A total of 52 new and revamped network sites from Tigo will be launched countrywide throughout this campaign in the Coastal, South, North and Lake Zones of Tanzania. Another site from the South Zone that has been upgraded and will launch soon is in Sumbawanga, Rukwa.