THE Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court has refused to commit seven people, including senior officials with four subsidiary companies of Acacia Mining Limited, to the High Court for trial of over 10tri/- fraud, tax evasion and money laundering charges. Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina reached at such a decision on Friday after dismissing an application presented before the Dar es Salaam Court by the defence counsel led by Mr Gasper Nyika. The magistrate ruled that his court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything because the case under which the accused were facing was an economic case. “Such a case,” he said, “is triable by the Corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court.” He agreed with the submissions presented by State Attorney Wankyo Simon that the role of the lower court on economic cases was to commit the accused to the trial court, but after completion of investigations and information of the case been filed to the High Court. “Since investigations have not been completed and information filed to the High Court, this court cannot do anything other than reading the charges to the accused and informing them the nature of the evidence during committal proceedings after completion of investigations,”the magistrate said. Mr Nyika had moved the court under section 243(1) of the Criminal Procedures Act (CPA) to exercise its committal power jurisdictions, a position, which was opposed by the prosecution that defence submissions were baseless and misconceived. In what he appeared to agree with the prosecution, the magistrate was quick to point out in his ruling that the cited provision just spelt out, who should do what and what procedure, when it comes for the court to commit the accused to the trial court. Having rejected the defence’s request, the magistrate adjourned the case until May 17, 2019 for another mention, pending further investigations into the matter. The magistrate directed the prosecution to expedite the process so that the accused know the outcome of the matter as soon as possible. The accused include President of Pangea Minerals Limited, Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited and North Mara Gold Mine Limited and Exploration Minieres Du Nord LTEE Deogratias Mwanyika and Managing Director of the three companies Asa Mwaipopo. Others are Bulyanhulu Company Relations Manager Alex Lugendo and the four mineral dealer companies. They are facing 39 counts of conspiracy to commit offences – organised crime, forgery of documents and uttering false documents. The other charges include corrupt transaction, tax evasion of $918,464,427 (about 1,8tri/-) and money laundering totalling $3,791,194,540 (about 7.4tri/-). It is alleged that the accused committed the offences between April 2004 and July 2018 in various places in Dar es Salaam, Shinyanga, Mara and Kagera in Tanzania and in South Africa, Canada, in Bardados Island and in the United Kingdom (UK). Within the same period and places, Mwanyika, Lugendo and Mwipopo with other persons not in court are alleged to have knowingly furnished assistance in the management of business of a criminal racket with intent to reap profit or other benefits. The same accused are charged with forging two loan agreements and a loan confirmation statement purporting Pangea Mineral Limited agreed to borrow $90m with interests from Barick International Bank Corp and Exploration Minieres Du Nord LTEE. It was alleged further that the accused also purported to show that Exploration Minieres Du Nord LTEE secured a loan amounting to $6,744,974.62 from the bank, while they knew such transactions were false. Mwanyika and Lugendo allegedly forged a loan amortisation schedule between Bulyanhulu Company and the bank, purportedly showing the company had secured a non-interest bearing loan amounting to $416,100,000. Mwanyika allegedly presented the document to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT). The court heard that the accused forged three other documents entitled “Toto-Structuring updatev12,” purporting that Pangea, Bulyanhulu and North Mara companies secured loans of $339,853,226.81, $752,635,464 and $374,243,943, respectively, from the bank. It is alleged that within the same period and places, Mwanyika, Lugendo and Mwipopo and other persons not in court, counselled and facilitated the four mineral companies to acquire or transfer $1,896,007,270, the proceeds of predicate offences of forgery and tax evasion. The prosecution alleged that the mineral companies, jointly and together with other persons not in court, acquired and directly engaged in transactions involving the said amount, while they knew or ought to have known that such property amounted to the proceeds of forgery and tax evasion offences.