THE Weights and Measures Agency (WMA) has requested traders to use the correct measurements that have been verified in order to protect the consumer and give the required quantity of the products. The measurement analyst officer in Ilala municipality, Mr Malaki Nyangasi said that a business person is able to identify a verified scale by looking for a WMA sticker that indicates the month and year of the date verified together with the agent’s stamp. Speaking to Kisutu market traders in Ilala Municipality yesterday, the official pointed out that the exercise is dedicated towards the celebrations of World Measurement Day that reaches its peak on May 20 each year. “Any businessman who is starting up a business must have accurate measuring equipment that are checked by the Bureau of Standards,” he stated. He scolded the act by some traders who fault measuring equipment, saying it affects the consumers, causing them to get less products than the supposed quantity. “Such acts are considered to be theft. And any consumer who discovers that he or she has been swindled by such methods should report the matter to the agency so that proper legal action can be taken upon such trader,” he stated. On the other hand, the Vice Chairperson of Kisutu market, Mr Laurent Magari pointed out that the market has 495 traders, and most of them have shown readiness to verify their scales, and when are required to rectify them, they are ready to do so without hesitation. “We urge traders to be careful, and whenever a scale problem occurs, they should report and not just take it into their hands to hire unqualified technicians, because it may cause more problems to the scale and complaints by consumers,” he stated. One of the traders at the market, Mr Zenos Mkombo advised other traders to stop such deceptive schemes so as to build trust and loyalty with their customers. Themed ‘the International System of Units - Fundamentally better’, the World Measurement Day is in memory of the Meter Convention that was signed in Paris on 20 May 1875 by representatives of 17 nations of Argentina, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, Ottoman Empire, United States of America, and Venezuela. The treaty aimed to ensure worldwide standardised measurements.