ACHIEVEMENTS registered through bulk procurement of petroleum products and fertilisers have enticed the government to consider similar arrangements for wholesale imports of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders. The Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, explained to lawmakers here over the weekend that bulk imports of LPG will enable people across the country to purchase gas cylinders at affordable prices. “The long-term plan, however, is to supply homes countrywide with the locally available natural gas for domestic use through a network of pipelines,” Dr Kalemani told members of the Parliamentary Public Investments Committee (PIC). He added: “As the government through the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) prepares to roll out the network of natural gas pipelines for domestic use, we will similarly ensure that even people in rural areas are availed with LPG cylinders.” Dr Kalemani pointed to the fact that the use of eco-friendly energies such as natural and LPG will provide Tanzanians with alternative sources of energy for domestic use and eventually shun the use of charcoal and firewood. Environmentalists in Tanzania and elsewhere have on several occasions voiced concerns on massive felling of trees to produce charcoal and firewood and thus leading to deforestation. Speaking to the parliamentarians, Dr Kalemani explained that TPDC was currently using internally generated funds to execute pilot projects for connection of natural gas to homesteads in Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Lindi. “Supply of natural gas to homes in all regions countrywide will be undertaken in phases depending on disposal of required funds. We found it wise to use internal funds rather than waiting for support from development partners,” Dr Kalemani told members of the parliamentary committee. Studies conducted in the country have indicated that the use of natural gas for domestic use is 40 per cent cheaper compared to LPG and 35 per cent low-priced compared to a sack of charcoal of between 25 and 50 kilogrammes. Dr Kalemani informed the MPs that a total of 8.8bn/- has been allocated for construction of natural gas pipeline infrastructure in Dar es Salaam and 5.7bn/- for the gas-rich regions on Mtwara and Lindi in southern Tanzania. Presently, TPDC through its subsidiary Gas Company Tanzania (GASCO), supplies natural gas through a network of pipelines to 72 houses at TPDC Estate and 24 housing units at Twiga Estate in Mikocheni. Construction work is also underway to supply energy to 20 houses at Survey Mlalakuwa in addition to 35 houses and three canteens at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM)’s Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Campus. “It is our hope that 337 homesteads, including 10 public institutions such as schools and hospitals, will be connected to the gas network in Dar es Salaam and Mtwara by September, this year,” the minister stated. Meanwhile, Dr Kalemani assured the MPs that the country has adequate reserves of petroleum products of about 125 million litres which is enough for the local market for the next 35-52 days given the existing demand. The minister emphasized that apart from the reserve, the country continues to receive weekly imports of fuel consignments.