POOR parents of immature babies may soon breathe a sigh of relief amid the government promise to consider reducing prices of surfactant replacement therapy. The surfactant replacement therapy for premature babies acts to keep the alveoli from sticking together and is supplemented with oxygen or ventilation to help the baby breathe. Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile told the National Assembly here yesterday that the government was aware of the high prices of the therapy, rendering it unaffordable to majority Tanzanians. “We have seen that situation and we are now looking at the possibility of reducing the prices, with the introduction of bulk procurement of drugs directly from the manufacturers,” stated Dr Ndugulile when reacting to the concern raised by Grace Tendega (Special Seats-CHADEMA) over the therapy’s high prices. Ms Tendega argued that majority of parents were unable to afford the 600,000/- therapy cost. Earlier, the legislator claimed that Tanzania was among countries with large number of prematurely born babies. She wanted to know whether the government had plan to extend maternity leave to mothers who give birth to immature babies to give them more time to care for their toddlers. She further asked about the government’s plan to have services in place to address problems of mothers giving birth to immature babies. Responding, Dr Ndugulile explained that the law stipulates that the mother is entitled to 84-day leave for single baby birth and 100 days for twins. “The government has, for now, no plans to extend time for maternity leave for mothers,” stated Dr Ndugulile, adding that the government has continued implementing various programmes to address factors leading to deliveries of immature babies. The efforts include insuring that pregnant mothers attend clinics soon after getting the pregnancies. Attendance of clinic will help in early identification of signs that can lead to premature delivery. Dr Ndugulile, who is a medical doctor, mentioned some of the factors leading to immature babies as less or overweight of the mother as well as alcohol consumption.