SIMBA Head Coach Patrick Aussems said their 3-0 triumph over Mtibwa Sugar on Thursday has driven them closer to reach the team's target of defending Mainland Premier League title. Simba reacted positively to hammer the visiting team from Morogoro at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam after failing to bag maximum points in their two past league matches at the same venue. Had they won the previous two clashes against Kagera Sugar (1-0) and Azam FC (0-0) respectively, then Simba could have officially been declared champions but now, at 85 points, they just need to reach 90 points to retain the silverware since no other team can manage to attain 90 points. Skipper John Bocco opened the goal account for the Reds in the first half after connecting a cross inserted into the box by the current top goal scorer Meddie Kagere, who has 20 goals to his name. It was Bocco’s 15th goal of the campaign similar to his compatriot Emmanuel Okwi, who contributed one goal on the day so as Zambian import playmaker Clatous Chama. As it stands, Simba’s firing line made up of Kagere, Okwi and Bocco has so far scored 50 goals for the club collectively and the tally could increase if they will continue to score in their four remaining ties. From 34 matches played, the Msimbazi Street giants have netted 72 goals more than any other team and conceded 14 goals less than any other side in the competition. The Reds have won 27 games, recorded four draws and lost three clashes altogether to be the only team at this point which has lost few matches. At a press briefing, the Belgian said they are now getting closer to reach their target of the season. “I am satisfied today (Thursday) with the victory even though in the last 20 minutes we relaxed a bit, thereby giving them (Mtibwa Sugar) chances to create scoring opportunities,” Aussems said. He then called on Simba fans to flock at Uhuru Stadium on Sunday (tomorrow) as they entertain relegation safe Ndanda FC who sit seventh of the log with 47 points. In his remarks, Mtibwa Sugar Coach Zubery Katwila heaped praises on Simba, saying they are best in the league with quality players. “We made a lot of mistakes which were capitalised by our opponents. This is part of football and we need to shrug off the defeat ahead of upcoming matches waiting us,” Katwila said. He added: “Conceding three goals was something we never expected and my defence was much exposed. We are heading home to correct the shortfalls which surfaced so as to do well in our last two encounters.” Mtibwa Sugar will host Simba in their last match of the season at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro.