COUNTRYWIDE crackdown looms on business operators still supplying the plastic carrier bags as the government envisages banning the importation, manufacture, distribution and use of the bags. Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Vice-President’s Office, Union Affairs and Environment, Ambassador Joseph Sokoine said here over the weekend that the crackdown will involve security organs and regulatory authorities. “For those who will be ready to surrender their consignments of plastic carrier bags, the government will soon announce procedures and places where to the consignments have to be submitted,” said the deputy permanent secretary. According to Ambassador Sokoine, the authorities that will take part in the crackdown are Tanzania Bureau Standards, Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority, Government Chemist Laboratory Agency and Tanzania Ports Authority. Others are Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority, Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, Tanzania Airports Authority and Immigration Department. Ambassador Sokoine said the government has already notified all regional authorities about the imminent ban on the use of plastic carrier bags, adding that some of the regional authorities have started allocating special areas for storage of surrendered consignments of plastic bags. Clarifying on a video clip taking rounds on social media, Ambassador Sokoine said the clip that claims that the plastic bags will still be in use was taken last year, before the ban. “The meeting was hosted by the Vice-President’s Office (VPO) for consultations with dealers in plastic bags,” he said, hinting that the government is currently conducting a series of campaigns to raise awareness on the plastic bag use ban and the VPO is using a number of media to convey the message to the public. “Alternative bag manufacturers have assured us that they will fast-track production of alternative bags and some of them have already imported plants to produce the carriers,” he said. The government last month announced the ban on the plastic carrier bags effective June 1, 2019, citing biodegradability of plastic bags, which can last 10 to 20 years in marine environment or more on the ground, leading to deadly pollution of the environment. In his 2029 budget speech in the National Assembly, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, announced May 31 as the last day to use plastic bags in the country, saying no one will be allowed to manufacture, import, sell or use the plastic bags.