THE University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM, has started hosting graduation ceremonies in the middle of the year for postgraduate candidates, who successfully completed their studies and qualify for awards. One of them was hosted for the first time yesterday where UDSM Chancellor and former President Jakaya Kikwete (pictured) conferred post graduates diplomas, masters and PhD degrees on 461 graduates. Speaking during the 49th graduation ceremony at Nkurumah Hall, UDSM Vice-Chancellor, Prof William Anangisye, said the plan to have the graduation in the middle of the year came due to an increase in the number of masters and PhD degree students. He said students pursuing masters and PhD degree normally completed their studies before the rest of other students, thus there was a need for them to graduate after successfully completing their studies. “This plan was discussed and passed by UDSM Senate and approved by the council,” he said, adding that a graduation ceremony for every year would comprise four clusters starting with postgraduate candidates. Prof Anangisye noted that further that the new arrangement would help improve masters and PhD degrees and increase students’ enrollment. Before this, UDSM used to have graduation ceremonies between November and December every year. The Vice-Chancellor urged graduates to strive after and create own employment opportunities instead of waiting for formal employment opportunities. He also asked them to maintain the university’s reputation wherever they would be in society and make others take a leaf from them by keeping up UDSM spirit and image. Speaking during the ceremony, UDSM Council Chairman Judge, Damian Lubuva thanked President John Magufuli for the support he always accorded to UDSM management and students. According to him, President Magufuli’s support has seen the university improve the standard of education. When launching UDSM library, President Magufuli urged UDSM to improve the standard of education as the nation relied very much on it to produce capable leaders for the government and the nation at large.