…JPM assures proper portioning of the fund to critical areas INTERNATIONAL Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has allocated over 127bn/- to support agricultural projects in the country for the three-year period, effective next year. President John Magufuli assured IFAD management in Dar es Salaam yesterday that his administration will ensure that the allocated fund is directed to crucial areas for the country’s agricultural sector development. He mentioned some of the areas that yearn for funding in the country’s drive to modernise agriculture as improvement of equipment, seed production, improvement of livestock keeping and guaranteeing markets for agricultural produce. The Head of State appreciated IFAD for the funding that has come free of conditionality, assuring that the government will continually cherish the good relationship that started in 1978 between Tanzania and IFAD. He directed the Ministry of Agriculture to fast track the identification of areas that will receive money for immediate execution of the projects. IFAD President Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo said that the money has been allocated to fund agricultural projects in the country, with the view of boosting production and national economic growth. Mr Houngbo, a former Togo Prime Minister, was speaking at the meeting with his host, President John Magufuli, at the State House. The funding aside, IFAD President expressed his admiration to President Magufuli and his government for the great efforts in developing the country’s economy, including superb execution of various IFAD projects. He said President Magufuli has been insisting on the importance of establishing independent investments that respect humanity, generate income for all and build up sustainable independent economy. According to Mr Houngbo, IFAD has already allocated the money and it’s only waiting for the government to identify specific areas for the projects where the money will be channeled to. He said IFAD is confident that the money will be well utilised, thanks to the country’s political stability and powerful leadership, which focuses on bringing about development for all. Meanwhile, President Magufuli yesterday received Swedish Minister for International Development Cooperation Peter Eriksson at the State House. The Swedish Minister commended President Magufuli and his government for the fight against corruption, explaining that the Scandinavian country is looking forward for further cemented relationship with Tanzania. The meeting was attended by the Swedish Ambassador to Tanzania Anders Sjöberg and Minister for Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation Professor Palamagamba Kabudi. In another development, President Magufuli sworn in Dr Mpoki Ulisubisya as Tanzania’s new Ambassador to Canada. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa and other senior government officers attended the function.