NATIONAL golf team coach, Fadhil Nkya is upbeat for stellar performance as his team set to resume a week-long residential camp in Dar e Salaam tomorrow. The four-member national team that includes Captain Victor Joseph from Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC), Richard Mtweve of Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) Golf Club of Dar es Salaam, Ali Mcharo from TPC Moshi and Abbas Adam of Moshi Gymkhana Club reportedly set for a residential camp ahead of the Region 4 golf duels. Formerly known as East African Challenge Trophy, the annual Region 4 event is scheduled to be held from June 5 to 9 this year at Bujumbura Golf Club in Burundi. Nkya told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that all is set for a camp to start. “Everything is going on well, we expect players from upcountry to arrive in Dar es Salaam tomorrow (today) evening ready for Wednesday training start,” said Nkya. The former national team ace and professional golfer, Nkya who has taken the national team coaching role for the first time, said the team will train in two Dar es Salaam based courses; Lugalo and DGC. “I have already set a training programme, starting with range practice and then swing techniques (long and shot games) to insure everyone is perfect on these fields,” he said. Nkya added the team is blessed with abundant talents that need a few additions to make it perfect. “The boys are real good and superb on course. They are current the country’s best players. We found them through tough tests during a qualifying contest before picking them, I’m sure they are going to do wonders,” he said. Adding, he will work on four ball better ball and foursome’s techniques, the two discipline that most often troubled our golfers in the international competitions. “I understand that Tanzania has suffered a lot in mastering these techniques, I want to make them master it before the tournament,” he said. Nkya who was among the national team members in the team that last won it in 2002 when it was still called East African Challenge Trophy in Arusha, said the current team is the best of all. But he said the boys only need support and motivation to make them focus on their games and the entire tournament “I remember well that time, under coach senior pro Salim Mwanyenza, we had very good support, good preparation and of cause we were at a home course and motivation to victory was there,” he said.