ABOUT 11,000 committees for protecting women and children from gender-related violence have been formed at regional, district, ward and village level countrywide by last December, the Parliament heard yesterday. Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, stated this when explaining over government’s efforts to combat gender violence. During the Question- Answer session in the Parliament, Ms Amina Makilagi (Special Seats-CCM) said some people in the community still face gender violence and harassments, questioning over government’s plans to address the problem. Dr Ndugulile said the government was aware of the gender-related violence and other abuses against women and children, some of which include sexual abuse. He said the fifth phase government has taken various measures to address the problem. One of the measures was to prepare National Strategy to Fight Violence against women and Children which is being implemented during the period between 2017/18 and 2021/22. The strategy aims at reducing violence against women and children in the communities by 50 per cent by 2022. The programme is part of implementation of the policy on women development of the year 2000, National Strategy for Gender Development (2005) and Child Development Policy (2008). “The formed committees are entrusted to coordinate the implementation of the national strategy at the particular level,” Dr Ndugulile stated. Again, he said the government introduced gender desks at police posts for dealing with gender-related cases. He said the government in collaboration with various stakeholders has continued providing education to the public over effects of gender violence. “For instance, in 2018/19 financial year, the ministry educated editors from various media houses so that they can become familiar with gender issues for them to impart the knowledge to the public through their media outlets,” he said. During this financial year, the government has also coordinated forums over gender violence and involved artists in awareness campaigns.