THE government has been asked to closely monitor the implementation of various agricultural projects for increased productivity in the Agricultural Sector Development Programme (ASDP II). The second phase of ASDP is geared towards an increase in private sector investment whereby 13tri/- has already been set aside for it. Speaking at a meeting that brought stakeholders to discuss better ways of improving the sector, chairman of the Board of Directors of Tanzania Horticultural Association (TAHA), Eric Ng'maryo said the fate of the agricultural sector depended greatly on industries and that for Tanzania, optimism was in the horticultural subsector, adding that if well utilised it would yield huge products for the country. "Naturally Tanzania is created for horticulture. It has such a fertile soil, good environment as well as enough water sources such as rivers, lakes and rain all year round that make the country one of the world’s greatest gardens," said Mr Ng'maryo. The chairman said TAHA understood the importance of ASDP in the implementation of agricultural activities in the country and that was why it participated in it. "TAHA is the main partner and has already started taking its part in the implementation of ASDP II at a great pace and out of the nine main areas TAHA is implementing six of them in horticulture. In the last 10 years the horticultural subsector has been growing at an average of 12 per cent as opposed to general agriculture that has been growing at four per cent only," said Mr Ng'maryo. The chairman noted that the TAHA board expected that through ASDP II the nation would be able to expand local and international markets, including reaching out to newly created ones in Middle East and Far East, including China. He called upon the government and stakeholders to address challenges facing the sector, as an enabling environment was needed for business to thrive for all. He said environmental conservation was one of the things needed in business. He explained that members of the public should also invest in market infrastructure, irrigation as well as in storage of crops and transport, especially by air transport. Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC), Mrisho Gambo, officiating at the meeting, urged the private sector to make more efforts to identify and utilise opportunities to realise the goals they had set for them and the national at large. "Play your part and I want to assure you that the government is taking this matter seriously and will be improving the business environment. The horticultural subsector is one of our priorities and I call upon you to take it as a basic thing in the agricultural sector. By holding a meeting to discuss the implementation of ASDP II in horticulture is great and so others should learn from this," said Mr Gambo. The RC added that in Arusha Region, one of the subsectors that people relied upon for their survival was horticulture because it had given the region a special place ahead of others. He said there were more than 10 big horticultural companies in Arusha that were dealing in vegetables, flowers and fruits in and outside the country. "In our region we have witnessed productivity in agriculture, but specifically in horticulture whereby farmers in the subsector have been increasing between 200 and 300 annually and now we have more than 5,000 of them. I take this opportunity to congratulate TAHA for its efforts to ensure the sector grows and contributes to economic revolution in our country," noted Mr Gambo. TAHA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Jacqueline Mkindi said the meeting was meant to share with private sector stakeholders on the importance of ASDP II and find a way of implementing it well. "TAHA has been in the frontline in molding this alliance between us and the government and ensure the horticultural sector grows. When we started it we were exporting crops worth about $64m, but today we talk of a sector that exports more than $700m crops and our aim is to reach $2bn," she said.