PLANS are underway for purchase of two large fishing vessels and construction of a fishing port along the Indian Ocean coast, with both initiatives aimed at advancing contribution of blue economy in the country, the National Assembly was told on Wednesday. Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Abdallah Ulega, informed the House that the government of Japan has supported the government of Tanzania with a grant of 4bn/- for purchase of the vessels while the government of Korea has shown interest to support construction of the fishing port. “As we speak, a consultant commissioned by the government of Tanzania is finalizing a feasibility study on a suitable site to construct the port along the Indian Ocean,” Mr Ulega explained while responding to a supplementary question by Mafia MP, Mr Mbaraka Dau (CCM). The Mafia MP had tasked the government, demanding to know when the port would be constructed to enable the country to benefit from vast maritime resources in the Indian Ocean. Earlier, while responding to a basic question by Special Seats MP, Ms Asha Mshimba Jecha (CCM), the Deputy Minister said the government has finalized the process to revamp the Tanzania Fishing Corporation (TAFICO). Ms Jecha had expressed concern that despite the fact that Tanzania is endowed with vast fishing resources in the Indian Ocean and inland lakes, communities surrounding the water bodies have not adequately benefited from the resources. The Deputy Minister assured the legislator that the government has taken a number of initiatives to enable Tanzanians to reap benefits from the resources, noting that the planned purchase of the vessel and the port are among the initiatives. “Through the plans, we will be able to stimulate establishment of fish processing industries which will play an important role in value addition of marine resources, create jobs and boost revenues to the government,” he explained. Mr Ulega further informed the august House that the Tanzania Fishing Research Institute (TAFIRI) has been undertaking studies on suitable technology to increase productivity in the fishing sector. The institute also provides public awareness campaign to communities on sustainable fishing.