Court of Appeal has approved the award of 6.4m/- as subsistence allowance to former Finance and Administrative Manager with Mtwara Urban Water Supply Authority (Mtuwasa) Gasper Peter issued in his favour by the Commission for Mediation and Arbitration (CMA). A panel comprising Chief Justice, Prof Ibrahim Juma, and Justices Augustine Mwarija and Ferdinand Wambali ruled in favour of Mr Peter after allowing his appeal he had lodged to fault part of the High Court (Labour Division)’s decision. In its decision, the High Court reversed the award of CMA, which had ordered Mtuwasa, to pay the appellant his terminal benefits, including subsistence allowances amounting to 6,489,000/-. “As per section 43(1) of the Employment and Labour Relations Act,” they said, “upon termination of employment, an employee is entitled to subsistence allowance during the period between termination of his employment and the date of payment of costs of his transportation to the place of recruitment.” "From its wording, the section does not have a condition tying an employee to the place of his employment for the whole period until the date of his transportation. We find that the High Court Judge erred in reversing the CMA award granting the appellant his claim for subsistence allowance," they ruled. The Justices, however, agreed with the High Court Judge that since the appellant claimed 6,489,000/-, the fact which he did not dispute, CMA erred in awarding him 8,466,224/-. For that reason, they held, the appellant was entitled to 6,489,000/-. On September 3, 2012, the appellant entered into a fixed-term employment contract with the respondent. He held the post of finance and administrative manager. The term of contract was four years with an option by either party to terminate it upon issuing to the other a three-month notice. Having worked for one and a half years, on March 27, 2014, the appellant issued to his employer a notice of resignation from his employment. His notice was accepted and after its expiration on April 1, 2014, he resigned from employment. Following his resignation, the appellant claimed for terminal benefits, including the cost of transporting him, his family and personal effects to Moshi, the place of his recruitment. The respondent refused to pay the benefits claimed by the appellant on account that he did not qualify for such benefits because he had decided to resign before the expiration of the fixed-term of employment. As a result, he filed a labour dispute with CMA. In its decision, CMA found the appellant was entitled to be paid the claimed benefits as provided under section 43(1) of the Employment and Labour Relations Act. It ordered the respondent to pay him 240,000/- as the cost of transport for the appellant, his wife and two children from Mtwara to Moshi.