PRESIDENT John Magufuli has expressed his displeasure with Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU)’s delay in accrediting various programmes presented by higher learning institutions. He said the delay was detrimental to government efforts to transform people’s lives and the country in general. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the construction of a modern library at Mbeya University of Science and Technology (MUST), President Magufuli gave a 10-day ultimatum to TCU to respond to an application submitted by MUST for approval. His directive came after MUST Vice Chancellor, Prof Aloys Mvuma, informed him that they were facing a challenge of delay by TCU to accredit some MUST programmes. The President noted that MUST applied for accreditation of some programmes since 2015 and in 2018 TCU directed MUST to make some adjustments and since then they had not received any response. He directed TCU board chairman, Prof Jacob Mutabaji, and his executivesto resolve the accreditation issue in 10 days by meeting MUST management in Mbeya Region. "I want them to come here and discuss with the management about this issue. I want this to be settled so that the university can know whether the programmes are approved or not," he insisted. President Magufuli also directed Minister for Education Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, to make a follow-up not only for MUST, but also in other education institutions. President Magufuli, however, assured to transform Mbeya University College of Science and Technology so that it could offer quality education that reflected technological advancement. He thus pledged to provide 7.9bn/- for completion of the construction of the library and hostels. Out of the total figure, he said 2.9bn/- would be provided this month for the construction of the library. He said the remaining 5bn/- would be spent on the construction of dormitories since the current ones were out-dated. The President directed Prof Ndalichako to see a possibility of getting some funds from her ministry, which would be re-allocated to MUST by the Finance and Planning minister for the purchase of laboratory equipment. "Lab equipment is out-dated. We train lecturers with modern equipment, but when they come here they find lab equipment of the 1980s," he noted. Prof Mvuma informed the President that MUST had 4,630 students enrolled on various programmes, but plans were underway to increase the enrolment to 15,000 students by 2025. He said currently MUST had established a campus in Rukwa Region to take services closer to people and expected to become operational in the 2019/20 academic year if it were approved by TCU. Prof Mvuma also said MUST had also come up with diploma and degree programmes for technical education teachers to curb a shortage of professionals. "We decided to come up with these programmes after realising that when technical education teachers retire there will be no replacement. So, it will be difficult to have enough technicians if we don't have teachers," he said. He noted that old infrastructure was also another challenge facing MUST. He said since its inception in the 1980s MUST had never undergone major refurbishment of its buildings. As a result most of them were dilapidated.