FORMER Young Africans goalkeeper, Beno Kakolanya has publicly conceded that his contract with the club is over and is ready to join any team next season. Kakolanya, one of the respected goalkeepers in the country, saw his relationship with the team's Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera going sour early into the season a situation which made the former to lose playing time. Following this misunderstanding, his responsibilities were taken by the club's young goalie Ramadhani Kabwili, before the Congolese Klaus Kindoki recovered from his wobbly start in life at Yanga to enjoy more playing time between the posts than his colleague. However, speaking through a radio interview recently in Dar es Salaam, Kakolanya admitted that his contract with the Jangwani Street side has officially ended such that he is set to join any club for the 2019/20 season. “I am happy that after a long time of discussion, finally I am a free player and looking forward to get back to business next season for any club which will be willing to hire my services,” Kakolanya said. He added that despite being off the pitch for a long time, he has been training a lot with his personal trainer ahead of the approaching season hence his match fitness is still vibrant. Asked to verify reports linking him to join Yanga’s traditional rivals Simba, Kakolanya declined to comment, saying his manager will be in the best position to respond. “I am a player and I trust myself. I can play at any team regardless whether the coach will give me playing time or not. “I remember at the time when I joined Yanga, I found well decorated goalkeepers there but I managed to win trust of the coach due to my abilities,” Kakolanya replied to a question as to whether joining Simba will see him deprived his match time due to presence of experienced goalies Aishi Manula and Deogratius Munishi. Queried whether he will never be interested to rejoin Yanga, Kakolanya replied: “This is football. What happened to me happens everywhere. If the chance comes to play for Yanga again, I will embrace it.” He also revealed that when the fragile relationship with Zahera emerged, a lot of things were said by members of the public but he deliberately chose to be quite because he knew exactly what happened. Kakolanya's peak of the season was during the first round traditional derby clash between Yanga and Simba at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, where he made spectacular saves to make the hot match end goalless. According to circulating reports on social media platforms, Azam FC are also showing interest to sign the former Tanzania Prisons goalkeeper.