CONGRATULATION  have poured in from around the world following the birth of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's son. The newborn was delivered at 05:26 BST on Monday, with Prince Harry saying the baby boy was "absolutely to die for". The Palace said the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and the Prince of Wales were all "delighted with the news". Meghan's mother, Doria Ragland, was said to be "overjoyed", while former US First Lady Michelle Obama said she and Barack were "thrilled". The baby, who has not been named yet, is seventh in line to the throne, behind the Prince of Wales, the Duke of Cambridge and his children - Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis - and Prince Harry. He is the Queen's eighth great-grandchild. Speaking after the birth, Harry said they planned to present the baby to the media in two days' time "so everyone can see" him. He said Meghan and the baby were doing "incredibly well", adding that they were still thinking about names for the infant. Arthur - a traditional royal name that is among the middle names of the baby's grandfather, the Prince of Wales, and his uncle the Duke of Cambridge - is the favourite with many of the bookies, while Alexander and James are also popular. Buckingham Palace said the baby weighed 7lbs 3oz (3.2kg), and that the duke was present for the birth. A statement added that Meghan's mother was "overjoyed at the arrival of her first grandchild" and was with her daughter at Frogmore Cottage - the Sussexes' home on the Windsor Estate. Kensington Palace said the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were "delighted" and "looking forward" to meeting him. Prime Minister Theresa May, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon were among the politicians to offer their congratulations to the royal couple on Twitter. Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, who married the couple in May last year, said: "May God bless the new family with love, health and happiness." The choir that sang at Prince Harry and Meghan's wedding wrote a lullaby for the new baby. Congratulations also came from celebrities and famous figures in the United States, where Meghan was born.