NATIONAL ladies golf team heroine Madina Iddi targets to seal a treble in the Kenya Ladies Open Amateur Championship set to tee off from 8-9 June at Limuru Golf Club in Nairobi, Kenya. The 54-hole annual competition will see golfers battle for tough 36 holes in the first day before concluding with the final 18 holes in the final day. This year’s event, like many others in the past, has drawn top golfers from East Africa and Central African golfers. The Arusha Gymkhana Club (AGC) golfer Madina told the ‘Daily News’ from Mbeya yesterday that she intends to work hard to ensure she win the Kenyan event for the third time. “ I have already set a goal, it’s clear that I would like to win my third title in Kenya, I have to start early preparations and be ready,” she said. Madina added that she knows it is not going to be an easy ride since the tournament draws best golfers from the region. “ I have to credit my country mates who are also doing well. Players like Angel Eaton, Ayne Magombe, Neema Olomi, Hawa Wanyeche and V icky Elias are hard to beat on the course since they are all good players and have chance to win too,” she said. But, she added that it is good to have such challenge because events like that also strengthen the battle for the place in the national team. Madina won her second Kenya Ladies Open title after grossing unassailable 230 gross in a closely contested race at Sigona Club in Kenya last year. She defeated other golfers from Uganda, Swaziland, Senegal, Tanzania and hosts Kenya by a stroke. Madina started strongly to lead the board by a stroke after grossing 77 strokes in the tough first morning tee off, but rain and darkness prevented them to finish their afternoon second round. They were forced to play on Sunday morning returning 78 strokes at the end of the 36th hole. The second round saw her at second, a shot behind overnight leader Kenyan Kelly Kachaga who started with 80 strokes in the first round before posting 74 strokes in the second, but was composed in the final round sank 75 strokes, making an aggregate 230 strokes that won a title over Kachaga who returned 77 to finish second overall with 231. Madina first won Kenya Ladies Open amateur championship at the same course in 2015. The Kenyan Open win took her to another achievement at the All Africa Challenge trophy in Ghanaian capital, Accra in August where she emerged overall individual champion as she helped Tanzania finish overall second in team event.