THE government has described the just opened Mwanza’s gold market as suitable international gold market, thanks to available infrastructure surrounding it. Minister for Minerals, Doto Biteko said here as he officially launched the Mwanza regional gold market on Wednesday that the lakeside city is suitable for international gold marketing facility, asking the region to readily grab the opportunity. “So apart from establishing this market at the regional level, I view Mwanza as strategic gold destination, suitable for international markets because of the presence of airport, modern hotels, financial institutions, stable security and many others,” he noted. Besides serving as the gold market, the minister said Mwanza was equally geographically well positioned to serve as a gold hub for minerals, with indicators showing that the Lake Zone regions are leading in gold production. Giving statistics on the trend of gold markets since they were officially introduced in the country about a month ago, Mr Biteko singled out the Geita regional gold market, saying it has already sold over 197,900 grammes worth 16.5bn/- generating 1.1bn/- royalty and inspection fee for the government. In Chunya, the gold market has for the past five days of its operations sold 22.4 kilogrammes worth 1.9bn/- with the government pocketing 52.3m/- as royalty and inspection fee, the minister said. Previously, according to the minister, Chunya market used to collect only 20 kilogrammes monthly and the story was almost the same in other gold producing areas. For the purpose of sustainability and efficiency, the minister tasked all leaders in the districts and local government to ensure all gold produced in their areas are collected and brought to the gold markets. “Management of the mineral sector should not be left in the hands of the Ministry or Mineral Officers or District and Regional Commissioners alone. It should be a joint task where every citizen is obligedto participate,” he stressed. Giving a brief statement, Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC), John Mongela said so far the region has 57 prospecting licenses, 13 mining licenses and 356 primary mining licenses. He said several areas have been reserved for small scale mining, citing Mihama, Ilujamate, Shilalo and Chata in Misungwi District as well as Mwagiligili which is between Misungwi and Kwimba districts. According to Mr Mongela, last year, 124.6 kilogrammes of gold worth 7.6bn/- was produced in Mwanza region earning the state 459.4m/- as loyalty and inspection fee.