Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) will effective from July this year start performing neurosurgical operations by 100 per cent. Neurosurgery, also known as neurological surgery, is a specialised operation to prevent, diagnose, treat and rehabilitate any part of the nervous system such as the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves and the extra-cranial cerebrovascular system. This is good news to all of us and indeed a great stride in Tanzania’s sector of health. We say this, taking into account that there are other specialised operations, such as heart surgery and kidney transplant, which were being performed overseas and costing patients and the government millions of Tanzanian shillings, but thanks to local specialists and modern equipment, they are now also available in the country. According to MOI Executive Director, Dr Respicious Boniface, MOI has reduced between 95 and 98 per cent of patients with various neurological complications, who would previously go overseas to seek medical treatment. This is not mentioning other health facilities that have also expanded their services due to being upgraded and equipped with modern specialists and equipment. Another great stride we have made as a country is to make health services accessible to more people, including those living in rural areas and introducing a health insurance cover for children below 18 years old and the envisaged compulsory health insurance for all. We know that Tanzania is a big country with more than 50 million people and so to enable all people access health services or make all parts of the country have improved health services requires a lot of investment in the health sector. We haven’t managed everything, but we have tried to a considerable extent to expand health services to reach places that, although they had not health facilities a few years ago, they have now a dispensary, a health centre or a hospital. This is not a small thing to do at all, taking into account that we are still a fledgling economy. What remains though is to train more medical specialists, purchase more medical equipment and increase medical supplies. With time we will be moving closer to achieving Goal 3 of sustainable development goals (SDGs) by 2030 – that is having good health and well-being for all. What we can do now besides planning to increase and improve health services is to maintain what we have already – that’s increasing budget allocations to existing health facilities wherever possible and retain medical doctors, especially specialists, so that we don’t have time and time again fall short of them as a result of brain drain.