THE National Council for Technical Education (Nacte) yesterday announced the opening of the 2019/20 academic admission window, while suspending indefinitely fresh enrolment on a community health course. Speaking to reporters during the ongoing Nacte exhibition at Jamhuri Stadium, Director of Compliance, Monitoring and Evaluation, Dr Jofrey Oleke, said the admission window was opened yesterday and would be closed in September. He said students intending to pursue certificate and diploma courses at colleges registered by Nacte across the country were welcome. He said the community health course had been suspended following the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children’s directive as it was the one mandated to oversee all courses in the health sector. However, Dr Oleke noted that the suspension had nothing to do with continuing students enrolled on the suspended course. “New applicants for health courses in public colleges should register through online, directly to colleges or through Nacte website www.nacte. go.tz).” Moreover, Dr Oleke said applicants for health courses in private institutions should do so directly to their colleges of choice. “I would like to remind colleges to abide by criteria and by enrolment requirements for new applicants,” he noted. Dr Oleke cautioned the colleges that they should not announce admitted student names before they were approved by Nacte. He advised parents and guardians to ensure they chose colleges after reading and understanding the Admission Guidebook for 2019/20 Academic Year. When reached for comment on the reasons for the suspension of the course, the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Acting Head of Government Communication Unit, Ms Catherine Sungura, said the ministry produced experts by considering the needs at a given particular time. As for community health it depends on needs and demand in district and municipal heath councils. She said at present, the country had 18,000 graduates in the area. “We have suspended the course until further notice,” she insisted.