WORKS for laying down natural gas pipes for domestic use in Lindi region will start by the end of this month to enable residents to enjoy the available resources in their area, the parliament was told on Tuesday. Minister for Energy Dr Medard Kalemani announced that the same project had been planned to start at the end of April in Mtwara, also the southern region with natural gas resource. This is upon ongoing implementation of the project to distribute natural gas to homes in the city of Dar es Salaam. On Sunday, the Minister ordered the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) to speed up supply of the gas for cooking to at least quarter of Dar es Salaam households in the next three years. He gave the order when touring some areas in the city where connection of the natural gas is being undertaken to provide homes with affordable and alternative energy for cooking. The connection of homes in Lindi and Mtwara came up in parliament after nominated Member of Parliament Salma Kikwete questioned plans to supply natural gas to Lindi residents. Ms Kikwete said she was aware that projects were ongoing to supply gas in Dar es Salaam and Mtwara, but she did not know what about Lindi residents. Earlier, the Deputy Minister for Energy, Ms Subira Mgalu explained that currently TPDC continues implementing project to construct infrastructures for supplying natural gas for domestic uses in Mtwara, Coast and Dar es Salaam regions. The first phase of implementation had already started and the current stage involves the purchase of pipes, facilities for pressure reduction stations and others. It is expected that over 120 families will be connected by June this year. Meanwhile, Ms Mgalu explained that there is ongoing review of price for natural gas supplied to local industries like Dangote Cement in Mtwara region. She said the Energy and Water Utility Regulatory Authority (EWURA) has been meeting with stakeholders for discussion over the matter, with the latest meeting held in April this year. Ms Mgalu’s remarks were in response to question from legislator Rashid Akbar (Newala Rural-CCM). Ms Akbar in her question pointed out that there were speculations over some industries in Mkuranga district, Coast region, planning to close down production due to high prices of natural gas.