FRESH legal battle has emerged in the 24-year old labour dispute pitting former workers of AMI Tanzania Limited against their employer over payment of over 5bn/- terminal benefits. This followed the Court of Appeal decision to order a new hearing on legality, or otherwise, of the High Court's ruling, setting aside the sale of company properties, including two posh houses in the Dar es Salaam’s central business district to recover the sum. Deliberating on an application lodged by four applicants, including OTTU on behalf of 107 AMI workers, a panel reiterated the court's earlier decision to have an application for revision seeking to dispute the High Court ruling should be heard afresh. The applicants had moved the appeals court for directions, interpretations and review from separate rulings and orders of the court given by the panel comprising Chief Justice Ibrahim Juma, Bernard Luanda, now retired and Kipenka Musa on December 19, 2013. In the recently delivered ruling, the panel composed of Justices Juma, Mussa and Stella Mugasha, who replaced the retired Justice Luanda, found the application to be seriously wanting in merits and, accordingly, dismissed it. " We are constrained to hold that the applicants have miserably failed to establish that the impugned decision is marred by the enumerated manifest errors to warrant a review," they declared in the ruling, which appeared to favour AMI Tanzania Limited, the respondent in the matter. Other applicants who lost the application are Super Auction Mart and Court Brokers, the Royale Orchard Inn Limited and Amikan Venture Limited. The two companies participated in the public auction of AMI houses. In the disputed ruling under which the applicants sought for directions, interpretations and review, two members of the previous panel had agreed to vacate the Court of Appeal decision, directing the High Court to finalise the execution process in conformity with the law. The two members had, among others, further concurred on the decision to accord the application for revision of the High Court ruling on setting aside the sale of AMI properties to have such matter heard afresh. " From where we are standing, we take the view that it is incomprehensible for the applicants to seek directions on a matter which is clearly spelt out by the Court. It is unfortunate that (they) are bent on twisting words to misguide on a matter clearly spelt out," the justices said. During hearing of the application for directions, the applicants had contended that following the decision given in another matter, the sale of AMI properties was confirmed and made absolute and certificate of sale was issued well before the filing of application for review. The properties of AMI that were sold in public auction to recover the decratal sum are houses situated on Plot Number 6 and 7 at Upanga area, near the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) offices along Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road and another at Baobab Village, Masaki area. In some earlier decisions, the Court had affirmed the buyers of the houses in question being bonafide purchasers and, thus directed the High Court to finalise the process, including issuing the certificate of sale in terms of the law. The main thrust of AMI's complaint in their application was to the effect that when giving its decision on review, the panel invoked revision jurisdictions to quash a decision given by High Court Judge Fauz Twaib, who had set aside the transaction involving sale of the houses. In their earlier rulings, Justices Juma and Mussa supported each other on the effect of application for review lodge by AMI Tanzania Limited, while Justice Luanda was of different opinion, saying a decision arising from a review is final and a party to it is barred from filing another application for review. Justice Luanda had warned in his separate ruling that if the Court would keep on allowing parties to file a series of review there would be end of litigation and by doing so would set a bad precedent in not following the Rules, which are fundamental in the administration of justice. Regarding the hearing of Civil Application No. 35 of 2011, while Justice Mussa held that parties were not heard at all, Justice Luanda was of views that parties were dully heard, but Justice Juma found that the parties were heard, but with a different panel, therefore making a reason that AMI was denied opportunity to be heard and, thus the matter should be heard afresh.