People’s Defence Forces, Navy Command, is very strong. For those who wish to learn more how strong the force is should read how seven Somali pirates, who are currently serving life imprisonment sentence were captured, following an attack an oil exploration vessel in 2011 in the Indian Ocean within the waters of the United Republic of Tanzania. Our Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA reports in this first part of piracy case. On August 23, 2011, a senior army officer, who shall be referred in this article as Mr A, was at Kigamboni Navy Headquarters. He was assigned guard in the Indian Ocean where there was an oil and gas exploration going on. The exploration ship was called Ocean rig (Poseidon). The oil and gas exploring crowbar was stationed 150 Nautical Miles from Mtwara- Harbour. The Latitude was 07 Degree and 49.4 Minutes South. Longitude was 04 Degrees 14.3 Minutes East. Guarding crew included guarding Frobisher ship with 80 metres in length. Other involved vessels were Damier, Monck and Sams All-good. Also, a local boat called TNS Mchomvu which joined later. The guarding crew included other soldiers with guns and ammunitions in discharge of the duty. The assignment started with journey from Dar es Salaam to Ocean rig on August 23, 2011. By using Costa Bus, they arrived at Mtwara Town at 2.00am. On August 24, 2011 in the afternoon, the crew of Frobisher ship met a team leader of Drum Cussac, a company which was guarding the area, to agree on how to execute their duty. The convoy also involved foreign guards and other retired army officers from the Netherlands. On August 27, 2011, the second group arrived from Kigamboni with eight soldiers, making a total of 22 soldiers. On October 3, 2011 at around 8.06pm, while in his room, Mr A was informed by the team leader that they were under attack. The information was to the effect that a small boat was sailing fast behind Frobisher ship. Another senior army officer, who shall be referred in this articles as Mr C saw the invaders through Night Vision Microscope with capacity of seeing something up to 200 metres distance. After such information had been received, the guarding crew met at the bridge in Frobisher ship and ordered a switch of sound signal indicating that they were under attack. Mr A saw movements of black people in the invaded boat. He saw a skiff (small boat) roped to Sams All-good ship which in most cases is used for administration works in big ships. Having suspected that the ship was to be engaged in piracy, Mr A commanded a soldier who was in Monck Ship to go near the Sams All-good. A lot of shots were fired towards Monck Ship, which was then perforated with three big holes. Mr A then told the soldier to concentrate on their work: To be ready for everything. Thereafter, he went and joined another solder in the back of the ship to motivate and encourage him not to be scared by the shots. He also gave him instructions. About three shots were fired towards them. Mr As then went back to the bridge and switched on the search light. He also told Mr C to destroy engine of the skiff boat so that it could not be used by the pirates to escape. Lots of ammunition was shot to facilitate the order. Mr A commanded his soldiers to desist from more shooting after destroying the engine of the skiff boat in which one of the pirates was in and who jumped to join his co-pirates in the attacked Sams All-good. The shot skiff boat started sinking. He informed his fellow soldiers that they had to concentrate on the pirates in the attacked Sams All-good ship leaving the Ocean rig. The witness then commanded one of the soldiers to leave the pirates in the SamsAll-good ship and go to the Ocean rig, leaving the rest to deal with the pirates. During the incidence, TNS Mchomvu Ship and Dumpier were at Mtwara port, meaning that, at the scene there was Sams All-good, the attacked boat, Frobisher and Monck, which are civil ships for security. The guarding crew opted to face the pirates through Frobisher Ship by ordering the strong search light to be switched on and directed towards the attacked ship. Mr A noted that the crew in the attacked ship had rushed to the strong room. The engineers switched the ship off. As a result, the ship was, thus, changing direction as per the wind movement. He wanted to use diplomacy in dealing with the pirates. In this, Mr A cooperated with a Poland Guard in Drum Cussac. They left the ship captain at the bridge and headed to the upper side mounted with medium machine guns. MrA switched on the manual search light towards Sams All-good ship where the pirates were. For about ten minutes, it was silent with no movements. He left the Polish Guard at the upper side of the ship to the bridge where the ship was operated. Mr A thereafter took a microphone and made a call to the pirates to surrender on condition that they would not be harmed. Mr A ordered the captain of the ship commanding him to go 100 metres from SamsAll- good ship. He ordered the navigation officer to run the ship 100 metres near the ship. All the time other ammunitions were being fired towards them. The polish guard who was at the upper side was worried he would be targeted by the pirates; hence, he switched off the search light. He commanded the polish guard to switch covering shot to make them worried. He fired about 20 shots in the air. After such shots, silence was maintained. He ordered the polish guard to switch on the search light and direct at the attacked ship. He then went to the bridge and reannounced the surrender in Kiswahili and English Languages. The polish guard informed him that about six pirates had indicated the desire to surrender by dropping weapons in the sea. Mr A saw one pirate doing that. The pirates left the bridge of the ship to the back open space and raised their hands to signal surrender at a place they could be seen. Upon counting them, they were seven in number. Mr A commanded them to sit down. He asked them if there were only seven and if true, whether the weapons thrown in the sea were only those which they had. In order to pick the surrendered pirates and ensure the stacked ship was safe, search and rescue had to be done, that is to go and inspect the ship to see if the same was safe. Mr A assigned Mr C and three other soldiers to inspect the ship through some given procedure. They used rubber boat which is a big boat that the skiff filled with pressure. The distance from Mr A’ Ship to Sams All-good was between 100 to 150 metres by them whereas the boarding party had four people. He commanded them to inspect the attacked ship to see if there were other pirates, if yes, to take all of them to Frobisher. Thereafter, they took the boarding party to Sams All-good. All the four boarding party members were armed and one had a robe. After entering the ship, one of the guarding crew had to guard the seven surrendered pirates. The boarding party was communicating with MrA through UHF Radio. Thereafter, the team leader told him that the attacked ship was safe. They also found, apart from the seven surrendered pirates, there was a magazine cover, 16 ammunitions in green colour, torch and pain killers. After getting such information, Mr A asked the boarding party team leader to take both the pirates and physical exhibits. On receipt of the exhibits and cross-checking the items and accuracy of the information received, the said exhibits were handed over to the military intelligence. After the pirates were taken to Mr A, one of them had a wound on his left leg and was bleeding profusely. He gave him first aid, including oxygen. The pirates were also given some refreshing drinks while the solders sitting with them in a friendly manner. The bleeding pirates told Mr A to just kill him. This is what the seriously injured pirate told MrA after being captured; “Captain, just kill me. If I go to Somali with this leg, what would I do? It is better to throw me in the sea and be eaten by fish.” Mr A directed one of the soldiers to take the injured pirate to a safety room so that he might not jump into the sea. Mr A reported the matter to the Navy Headquarters in Kigamboni in Dar es Salaam. Thereafter, on October 5, 2011, the Navy Headquarters sent a small boat known as Gayogayo to pick both pirates and the exhibits. Thereafter, the pirates were taken to custody to await other legal measures. (continues on Monday)