AZAM FC captain Aggrey Morris lauded his teammates for fighting hard to demolish debutants KMC 1-0 on Friday night at Azam Complex in Dar es Salaam. The slim victory enabled Azam to be the first side to jump into the finals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), thanks to 73rd minute goal by Donald Ngoma. Azam will find out their finalists tomorrow, when Lipuli host Young Africans at Samora Stadium in Iringa in the second semifinals of ASFC. Initially, the game was scheduled to be played today but was later pushed ahead for one day to pave way for Yanga general election set today in Dar es Salaam. Yanga have a poor away record against Lipuli at the venue where they recorded their third defeat of the Mainland Premier League this season after a 1-0 slump. However, it was a balanced match that saw both teams playing with high intensity to win the tie. For KMC, they badly wanted to reach into the finals and probably win a ticket to represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup but with the final results, they need to try again next season. On the other hand, it was a credit for Azam, whose chase for the top flight league title seems to be fading away as they lately sit third on the ladder with 66 points, trailing second placed Simba by nine points and league toppers Yanga with 14 points respectively. This means the only chance for them to win silverware this term lies in ASFC hence they will be interested to see their m a i n challengers in the finals tomorrow. Speaking after the tense match, Morris said team work was the vital ingredient that propelled them to emerge winners on the day. “It was not easy. We played against one of the best teams in the country who gave us a tight game but in the end, we have managed to accomplish our mission,” Morris said. He added: “Our target was to get an early goal but they kept us waiting until the second half when we finally made a breakthrough.” Morris then showered praise to KMC, describing them as the best team so far, saying if all teams were playing like KMC, the country’s football could have developed a lot. Moreover, the skipper said his team never gives up and that they will continue to fight until the last drop in both ASFC and Mainland Premier League. In his remarks, KMC Captain, Sadala Lipangile said one mistake they made was capitalised by Azam to get the winning goal. “Every team play to win and today (Friday), our task was to win and make it into the finals but that has failed to materialise,” Lipangile said. He then defended his team’s defensive tactics they applied during the clash, saying it was being deliberately done to launch counterattacks towards Azam goal.