FACT finding mission is underway to establish why foreign vessels avoid registering in Tanzania before getting a green light to fish in the country’s territorial waters. Livestock and Fisheries Minister Luhaga Mpina, winding up the ministry’s budget estimates for the 2019/2020 fiscal year in the National Assembly on Wednesday, defended the 0.4 per cent levy per kilogramme of fish on all foreign vessels operating in the country’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). He said the levy, which the house endorsed and got the government’s nod some few years back, was meant to ensure that the country obtains maximum benefits from deep sea fishing activities. “I want to request the MPs to give the government time to conduct fact finding mission, which will lead us to establish what exactly is preventing vessels from coming to Tanzania,” the minister said, insisting that the probe will be thoroughly conducted and its outcome revealed by July 1, this year. Minister Mpina was responding to concerns raised by several Members of Parliament (MPs) who raised concern over the government’s resolve to fully take advantage of its 1,424-kilometre coast line and its territorial waters to exploit deep sea fishing. Dr Saada Mkuya Salum (Welezo—CCM) expressed concerns over 0.4 per cent levy imposed by the Deep Sea Fishing Authority (DSFA) on foreign fishing vessels, which operate on the Tanzania deep sea, saying the move deprives the country of huge revenues. Her concerns was shared by Salum Rehani (Uzini—CCM) who said since the levy was introduced, Tanzania missed at least 54 vessels, which could have contributed between 20bn/- and 30bn/- in government coffers. He said the vessels have since crossed over to Comoro, where 31 of them were recently registered. The MP also said that Tanzania has not exploited to its full capacity, the 360 miles of deep sea, vehemently disputing data presented by the ministry, showing that Lake Victoria has 2,210,000 tonnes of fish compared to 100,000 tonnes available at the Tanzania’s Indian Ocean territorial waters. Another MP, Mbaraka Dau (Mafia—CCM) advised the government to abolish the 0.4 per cent levy on foreign vessels operating in Tanzania sea waters, saying the amount was exorbitant and scares away large scale fishing vessels, which could only be properly monitored and contributing significant amount of funds to the government coffers. However, Minister Mpina said if the foreign vessels continue shunning Tanzania’s territorial waters, the government will revive Tanzania Fishing Company (TAFICO) to use its own resources to maximally exploit the ‘blue economy’. “We will soon have our own large vessels that will be capable of conducting deep sea fishing where we clearly know that tonnes of tuna and other species of fish will be readily available for supply to both local and foreign markets,” he said. He also said that with the current speed to revive defunct fish factories and establishing new, the country was experiencing steady increase in supply of locally processed fish in the market compared to the past when the country was importing at least 300,000 tonnes of fish annually. In fact, the minister said, Tanzania has not imported fish since October last year. Mr Mpina said there was massive improvement in the fishing sector, which contributed 1.71 per cent in the country’s GDP in 2018, representing a 9.2 per cent growth. He said 4.5 million Tanzanians are directly involved in the fishery sector, with their daily earnings depending on fishing. He said a research conducted in 2018/19 shows that Tanzania has 2,803,000 tonnes of different species of fish. He also said that in 2018/19, 389,459 tonnes of fish, valued at 1.8tri/-, were harvested.