STAND United and Mwadui FC have been dragged to a play off discipline after ending 17th and 18th as the Premier League officially climaxed yesterday in all venues. But it was a sad day to Kagera Sugar, also a Lake Zone-based side, which was unfortunate to be relegated to the First Division. Kagera Sugar who finished 19th ended the season with 44 points like Mwadui and Stand United , but head to head tie with Stand United brought all that misery to Kagera region side who yesterday tied with Mbao FC in Mwanza. Kagera have joined African Lyon, the only team that had confirmed relegation prior to the league climax. Stand United, survived to play in play off, escaping the relegation despite conceding two goals loss to JKT Tanzania. Mwadui who finished 17th will play Geita Gold in the two-match play off while Stand United who finished 18th will face Pamba in a second play- off match to decide who deserve a place in the top flight league. Also deeply engaged in a relegation scare, but managed to beat it, include Tanzania Prisons who defeated Lipuli 2-1 at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya. Prisons survived with 46 points. Ruvu Shooting, who were placed 18th prior to the final round, miraculously remained in the Premier League after beating Alliance 1-0 at Mabatini ground in Mlandizi. Mbao, who were under pressure also fought to remain in the Premier League after forcing a 1-1 draw with Kagera Sugar in tense match at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Kagera scored first in the early minutes, but Mbao FC equalised later in the second half. Mbao finished 16th just one place above the play off or relegation zone. Stand United were forced out of the premiership by JKT Tanzania who were also relegation threatened with a convincing 2-0 win. Mwadui, who had 41 points prior to their last league encounter with Ndanda, stunned their hosts with 3-1 win in a match held at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi. The match was tough though Ndanda looked relaxed as they had nothing to lose after the home loss. It was one of the most complicated league end, as prior to the 38th round yesterday; eleven teams with points from 41 to 44 were facing relegation threat. According to the regulation, the newly introduced play-off system will be played in a home and away basis and if the two Premier League teams manage to beat those from the First Division, they will remain in the Premier League and the same applies to the FDL do they beat their Premiership opponents.