DIRECTOR of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Biswalo Mganga yesterday warned banks with Development Entrepreneurship for Community Initiative’s (DECI) 14bn/- deposits against tampering with the money. Mr Mganga told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that any bank that will transfer the money involved in the High Court forfeiture order to any different account will be dealt with accordingly as per available laws, including prosecution. The banks that have the money are National Microfinance Bank (NMB), Msasani Branch, where DECI had deposited 12,503,068,647/89, DCB Bank, Uhuru Branch, with 1,457,700,462/49 and KCB Bank, Samora Brach’s 57,933,404/10. Mr Mganga charged that the bank managers have to be careful and understand that the court has already ruled on the matter and they should therefore resist seduction by anybody to transfer the money to any other account. He cited the January 10, 2019 case that involved the directors of Rifaro Company of Africa, which was accused of illegally operating a pyramid scheme. And, upon pleading guilty to the charge, the court ordered the forfeiture of 149m/- deposit in KCB Bank. “The directors were subsequently released upon payment of 200m/- fine. Thereafter, they went to the bank and transferred 109m/- to special account, leaving a balance of only 40m/- in the bank account whose balance had been confiscated,” the DPP charged. Mr Mganga explained that he has already directed the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to investigate the bank’s manager and ensure either he returns the money or faces legal actions over the money transfer. Mr Biswalo further warned all other people—be they investors or individuals— bent on getting easy money through pyramid schemes, saying they risk the wrath of the law. He said he was aware that even in DECI, there were several people who participated in the pyramid scheme, illegally. He contended that none of DECI members was entitled to benefit from the illegal game because during the pyramid scheme operation, according to the law, both operators and members were offenders. The DPP’s warning comes just a day after the High Court ordered the forfeiture of DECI owned properties, describing them as proceeds of the pyramid scheme. Judge Steven Magoiga issued the order, granting the DPP application. Justice Magoiga ruled that there was no evidence whatsoever presented by DECI to show how they legally acquired the properties, concurring with DPP adduced evidence that the properties involved were proceeds of the pyramid scheme and that there was no lawful means through which the properties were acquired. Other forfeited properties include one house at Mwembe Madafu, Ukonga, another at Manzese and the other in Kinondoni Municipality, all in Dar es Salaam and one house at Rufiji Street in Mwanza. The assets also include Plots No. 651 Block M at Forest area in Mbeya, landed property on Plot No. 2/283/2 Block E at Mabibo, Kinondoni, unsurveyed land at Manyinga Village in Mvomero, Morogoro and Plot No. 467 Block H at Tegeta area in Dar es Salaam. Other properties include 11 motor vehicles of different makes—Toyota Land Cruiser, Nissan Terrano, Mitsubishis Pajero, Toyota Mark II, Toyota Ipsum, Subaru Legacy, Toyota RAV4 and Toyota Premio. Mr Mganga filed the application before the High Court against the respondents in the application, who were operating DECI, before they were convicted of conducting the pyramid scheme and were punished accordingly as per the law. They are Jackson Sifael Mtares, Dominick Kigendi, Timotheo Saigaran ole Loitginye and Samwel Sifael Mtares. The DPP filed the application in compliance to the Court of Appeal decision of 2018.