THE Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Faustine Ndugulile, has hailed NMB bank for donating items worth 15m/- to some Simiyu’s Health Centres. Receiving the items at Bariadi, in an annual event to commemorate International Day of Midwives in Simiyu Region this year, Dr Ndugulile said the bank’s gesture was a practical support to the government in its initiatives to improve health services in the country. Handing over the donations cited as four maternity beds, delivery kits and mackintosh sets, NMB bank Western Z one Manager, Mr Sospeter Magese said: “We (NMB ) recognise challenges in health and education sectors and we give priority to them, because they are important pillars in public growth and community development.” He said the items will be distributed to Ikungulyabashashi (B ariadi), K inaminguru (Maswa) and B ugayadhanhya (Meatu) Health Centres, which are currently in dire need of them. He said in their Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) the bank has set aside 1bn/- to support community projects especially in health and education sectors, besides natural calamities, which may affect normal lives in the public. The Deputy Minister, who is also K igamboni Constituency Member of Parliament (MP), said the bank’s timely donation will assist the residents to avoid long treks for the same services to other areas. He equally, urged other financial institutions to emulate the NMB ’s example of addressing community challenges, as well as support the government towards improving other public sectors countrywide. In another development, Dr Ndugulile appealed to the bank to be in the frontline in supporting the government towards combating mother and child deaths in the country. “Currently, we have around 47,870 Midwives in the country in the ratio of one to 11,000 pregnant women per year, but we need 52,130 Midwives so that we reach the ratio of one to 4, 000 pregnant women a year. Apart from the support you have given to Simiyu Region, we also request you (NMB ) to look for other ways to assist the government in other endeavours,” added the deputy minister.