TANZANIA People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club golfer Noel Mheni continues to sparkle in his youthful with his historic double hole-in-one feat further decorating his golf skills. A TPDF soldier, Mheni has achieved hole-in- one feat within a two-month span in the national level golf competitions held last year. For this historic feat, his club and golf stakeholder Kifaru Motors Tanzania decided to award him new golf kit in a colourful occasion held over the weekend in Dar es Salaam. New golf kit labelled ‘Precise’ was handed over to him in the city over the weekend by Lugalo Chairman Michael Luwongo on behalf of the company. Luwongo commended Kifaru for their kindness and lauded Mheni for the feat saying he deserves more than that since what he has done is something special. He said that the new Precise complete golf set has all necessary gear to help Mheni to do even better for the gear was assuring him to progress well because he is a hard working youth. Luwongo said: “The kit has driver, 3 fairway wood, 21 hybrid, 6-Pw Irons, Putter, 3 head covers, and stand Bag.” He added that Mheni is very hard working and is sure the new kit will help him improve his game and reach his desired goal. Mheni thanked Kifaru Motors for the awards and promised to use the kit wisely to win other awards. Kifaru joined Lugalo Club and last year awarded the golfers who won various title there. “I would like to thank the company and my club’s chairman for this award; it was something I dreamt of. Now I have it I can only promise that I will work even harder at practice to improve my game and bring honour for my club and the country in future. “I have already achieved what many golfers dream of, only luck can give you a holein- one, I regard myself as luckiest player, but have more to offer for the club, country and myself,” he said. It has been said scoring a ‘hole-in-one’ in a lifetime is unusual; it is extremely rare if not unique and only a few golfers had managed that feat. But as many wait for their first experience, Mheni had already written its mark in his golf career. He first did that at Morogoro Gymkhana Club course during second round of the Morogoro Open in August 19 last year. During Morogoro event he hit the callaway ball no.2 from tee no. 1 par-3 uses 5 irons. Mheni also did the same at TPC Club in Moshi, Kilimanjaro during October TPC Open championship.