SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems has called more supporters to storm Namfua Stadium in Singida as they take Singida United saying they have a chance to be declared champions today. Simba will officially be declared champions today if they either draw or win against Singida United at the Singida-based venue bearing in mind that only one point is enough for them to retain the silverware. The Msimbazi Street giants have had a busy season which has seen them trading in CAF Champions League where they made a record of reaching into the quarter finals. This trend forced the team to do a lot of players’ rotation as they wanted to fit well in both assignments but as the league nears its breaking point, they already have one hand at the trophy. A latest 2-0 victory against Ndanda FC on Sunday at Uhuru Stadium enabled the Reds to attain 88 points and cleared their way towards claiming the championship. Rwandan import striker Meddie Kagere scored both goals on the day to beat last season’s top goal scorer Emmanuel Okwi who netted 20 goals to win the Golden Boot accolade. The former Gor Mahia hit man is now six goals clear on the race to the campaign’s Golden Boot since his closest pursuers Heritier Makambo of Young Africans and Salum Aiyee from Mwadui FC each has 16 goals. On the other hand, Simba’s duo John Bocco and Emmanuel Okwi have 15 goals apiece and could change the tally only if they manage to score today. Speaking after crushing Ndanda, Aussems said his side just demand one point to grab the lucrative top flight league cup. “We are heading to Singida not to get one point but rather to collect maximum three points to be hundred per cent sure of winning the title,” said Aussems. He then encouraged Simba fans to descend at the venue in their big numbers insisting that they can be declared champions at the end of the match. On his Instagram page, the Belgian trainer wrote: “Still one point... Simba fans, let Singida be the city of TPL trophy celebration.” Commenting on the game itself, Aussems said he told his players to seek for an early goal since their opponents Ndanda have had the best defending record in the unfolding league. “They (Ndanda) have clean sheet in their past 12 games meaning that they are defensively perfect but I am happy to see that our target of taking three points from them came to realisation,” he said. He added that since his players have been playing after two days, they are tired that is why at some point into the game they lost ball possession easily to their opponents. In his remarks, Ndanda coach Khalid Adams said game mistakes his charges committed during the match were used as advantage by Simba. “To say the truth, we were overwhelmed today (Sunday) especially after conceding two early goals. In the second half, we tried to play with much focus but it was too late to make a big impact,” Adams said.