THE Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) yesterday announced that Simba SC will play against Spanish giants Sevilla FC on May 23rd at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The announcement was made by the federation’s General Secretary Wilfred Kidao during a press briefing in Dar es Salaam, saying Sevilla are set to jet in on March 21st this year. “For the past period, we have had trouble to select which team to face Sevilla between Young Africans and Simba to the extent that SportPesa Tanzania, who have facilitated for the Sevilla visit, proposed that a friendly match between Yanga and Simba should be played for the winner to face Sevilla,” Kidau said. However, he said after keenly scrutinising the current Mainland Premier League fixture, they found no place to insert the match due to the jam packed league games as such, they agreed to pick Simba because they did well in the past edition of SportPesa Cup held early this year in Dar es Salaam. “To say the truth, as the federation, we always appreciate efforts being made by SportPesa Tanzania as far as enhancing football is concerned. We will continue to work abreast with them because together, everything is possible,” he said. On his part, SportPesa Tanzania Director of Administration and Compliance Abbas Tarimba said he was pleased with the decision to pick Simba saying their positive performance in the SportPesa Cup has earned them the privilege to host the Spanish club. “Initially, it was not easy to choose between either Yanga or Simba and there was a point whereby we wanted to conduct a draw to get Sevilla opponents,” Abbas said. He continued: “When TFF came up with the criteria to choose the best team from the SportPesa tournament, we were impressed because it is indisputable fact that Simba have been doing well in the competition for all three years since it was inaugurated.” Additionally, Abbas challenged Tanzania teams which compete in SportPesa Cup contest to take it seriously. He then cautioned Simba to thoroughly prepare for the match saying it will be monitored by foreign Televisions hence a rare platform for the players to show off their capabilities. Meanwhile, about 30 football coaches from different clubs in the country are taking part in the ongoing ‘Coaches to Count On’ initiative which is being run by three coaches from the English Premier League side Southampton FC. Again, SportPesa Tanzania is the orchestrator of the project which has already been described as a major boost towards improvement of football in the nation. Addressing media yesterday at Uhuru Stadium during its launch, TFF Technical Director Ammy Ninje said time has come for the country’s coaches to take up such courses to upgrade their skills. “Football is changing daily hence we need capacity building lessons like these to develop our football,” Ninje said. On his part, James Newbigin who is a Partnership Manager at Southampton said they are here to share the skills they have with Tanzania coaches.