CAUTION has been issued against handling of pesticides with stakeholders being called upon to take action, because there is significant risk for injury and illness in relation to its misuse. Making the call here yesterday, Muhimbili University of Science and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), Senior Lecturer, Dr Vera Ngowi, further said that several risks are likely to be seen in agriculture, livestock production and public health sectors, where people frequently come into contact with insecticides. That was part of her keynote address to the International Conference on the Use, Regulation ad Health Effects of Agrochemicals in Sub-Saharan Countries ongoing here, where she further pointed out that Tanzania regulates pesticides, yet their poisoning still exist in the public, hence called for time to reverse it. Dr Ngowi hinted on the pesticide lifecycle as manufacturing and formulation, cross-border trade, distribution and marketing locally, importers and retailers, saying people should act to protect their health and environment, and singled out farmers, agricultural workers, and household members in particular, who handle them to be careful on their disposal as well as managing their empty containers. The don, who is a former Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI), researcher, further pointed out that there are several cases of pesticides’ use in the public, human poisoning and environmental contamination, especially among illiterate people, where there is unregulated use as well as lack of enforcement of its legislation. Equally, she said that there was a negative management of the insecticides, where some people buy them in large quantities and lead to stockpiling in areas where children could easily reach them with little or no supervision to them, let alone not data being collected. “Pesticides and politics kill. Pesticides are widely used in developed and developing countries and are seen as essential for food security and public health. Yet no evidence of world hunger, disease vectors…, but growth in international pesticide business is obvious,” added Dr Ngowi. She indicated pesticides’ sales geographically as being high from Europe, Asia and Latin America, adding that as a result of growth in their international market being obvious. History of pesticides in Tanzania dates back to 1950 with movement of Colonial Research Unit from Entebbe to TPRI–application of synthetic pesticides for vector control. Out of necessity, TPRI expanded to encompass pest management, pesticide registration and control, environmental pollution, toxicology, genetic resources and other issues. The don further said that multidisciplinary research and service teams evolved and focused on management of pests, pesticides and biological diversity, while the government provided research funds. “Efficient laboratory systems were set up for pesticide residue analysis and formulations quality assurance. Scientists were motivated. Research informed decisions for application of pesticides through crop authorities such as cotton and coffee,” she said. Expounding, Dr Ngowi said outcome of the TPRI activities led to complete reliance on the institute by the government showing how it was a competent authority to regulate pesticides in Tanzania. “TPRI can handle research and training on pesticide issues,” she further said adding that environment authority TPRI should know what to do. With Structural Adjustments Program (SAP), in 1980s downturn of TPRI started with cut down funding for pesticide research and again in the 1990s with trade liberalization–proliferation of pesticides dealers all over and late 1990s defragmentation of the pesticide law.