RESIDENTS in eight regions in Tanzania along the path of the crude oil pipeline from Hoima in Uganda to Tanga port will be empowered to participate in the mega project through local content component, the National Assembly heard yesterday. The Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office (Parliamentary, Coordination, Labour, Employment and People with Disabilities), Ms Jenista Mhagama, said the government is currently undertaking a programme to enable Tanzanians to benefit from the project. Ms Mhagama made the revelation when responding to a question by Msalala MP, Mr Ezekiel Maige (CCM), who sought to know how local residents along the major crude oil pipeline from Uganda to Tanzania will benefit. “Let me also take this opportunity to urge legislators from the regions where the pipeline will pass through to sensitise their people to take up opportunities to be brought by the planned project,” Ms Mhagama told MPs. Adding; “Residents along the path of the proposed pipeline should participate in the local content programme so that they can learn and identify opportunities in the project.” The minister further assured parliamentarians that the Hoima-Tanga crude oil pipeline will create jobs for Tanzanians and play a crucial role in boosting the economy during and after its completion. “The government of Tanzania has undertaken initiatives to enable local people to participate not only in the pipeline project but also other strategic projects being undertaken in various parts of the country,” she affirmed. The oil pipeline from Hoima in Uganda to Chongoleani in Tanzania will pass through Kagera, Geita, Shinyanga, Tabora, Singida, Dodoma and Tanga. Earlier, the Deputy Minister for Energy, Ms Subira Mgalu, said establishment of a factory for assembling and coating pipelines to be used in the project will commence once land acquisition at the planned site is completed. Ms Mgalu said the planned factory will be set up at Isaka Township in Shinyanga Region, and assured the area MP that the government is finalising processes for acquisition of land.