THE Lutheran Church entered Tanganyika, when the Berlin III Missionary Society, also known as the Evangelical Missionary Society for East Africa (EMS) sent Lutheran missionaries from German, who planted the seed that eventually formed the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania. Their first missionary station was opened in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam, in 1887. However, it was the third mission to Tanganyika from Leipzig in Germany, Leipzig Mission Society that entered the country in 1893 and opened its first station in Kidia, Old Moshi, in Kilimanjaro Region that led to significant changes in the Lutheran Church’s leadership system in Tanganyika, East Africa and Africa as a whole. According to Mr Aggrey Marealle, the son of the Paramount Chief of the Chagga tribe, Mshumbue (the anointed) Thomas Marealle II OBE, the change was that of introducing the title of Bishop and Head of the Lutheran Church in Africa during the early 1960s. The revelation comes a day after ‘The History of the Evangelical Church in East Africa’ that was translated into Kiswahili by Chief Marealle was revealed and launched. It was Chief Thomas Marealle II OBE himself, who paid for the printing cost of more than 3,000 copies, while Mr Rusk Shirima Kishimba helped in the translation work. The printing work was done by a company based in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region. “Before 1960 when Bishop Stephano Reuben Moshi (pictured) was installed as the first Bishop of the Lutheran Church in Tanganyika, there were no Lutheran bishops or heads of the Lutheran Church anywhere in Tanganyika, East Africa and in the whole of Africa,” he said in an exclusive interview with ‘Daily News’. According to Mr Aggrey, the idea to have a bishop within the Lutheran Church in Africa was raised by Paramount Chief Marealle II in 1955. Chief Thomas Marealle II was among the guests at a conference along other prominent African leaders, including the King of Ethiopia Haile Selassie, who was represented by his country’s Ambassador to Tanganyika and the Governor of Tanganyika Edward Twining. “During the Lutheran Council of all Lutheran churches in Africa held in Marangu, Moshi District, in Kilimanjaro Region, between November 12 and 22, 1955, Chief Thomas Marealle II raised a motion for the need to have bishops in African Lutheran churches,” he said, adding that by then the Lutheran churches in Africa were been led by church superintendents. He added: “During the conference, many issues were discussed, including development issues that were gained since the Lutheran Church entered Kilimanjaro Region in 1893, but it was the one concerning the need to have bishops, which dominated the meeting.” However, continued Mr Aggrey , the motion raised by the Paramount Chief met some obstacles after some of the participants of the meeting claimed that by introducing the post of the bishop in African Lutheran churches would be going against the directives given by Martin Luther, the founder of the Lutheran Church, which barred the use of the post of the bishop. “It was argued that Martin Luther barred the use of some church leadership titles used by the Catholic Church, including that of the bishop, but others said it wasn’t bad to use the title because there were countries in Europe, which used the title in their countries’ Lutheran churches,” he continued. Mr Aggrey noted that Paramount Chief Thomas Marealle II re-introduced the issue of a need to have a bishop among African Lutheran churches, when he addressed the third Assembly of the Lutheran World Council Federation held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in the USA. “Chief Thomas Marealle II was on his way from New York after addressing the United Nations on June 17, 1957, concerning the independence of Tanganyika and because he was invited to address the World Lutheran Council, he utilised the opportunity to re-introduce the motion of the need to have bishops in Africa Lutheran churches,” he said. He explained that three years later in 1960, the first title of bishop was introduced in Africa, whereby Bishop Stephano Moshi from Kilimanjaro was named and installed as the first African Lutheran Bishop in Tanganyika, East Africa and also in the whole of Africa. Bishop Moshi, who was the first head of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), proved his worth as a spiritual leader and the head of ELCT, whereby during his tenure as the head of ELCT, he led and supervised the introduction of many development processes within the church that included the establishment of the Moshibased KCMC Referral Hospital, in Kilimanjaro Region, which is one of the best health facilities in  East Africa.