TANZANIA and Kenya wildlife conservation experts have started meeting here to deliberate on the best means of conserving the Serengeti- Mara ecosystem that has continually been under threat. The meeting, facilitated by Vi Agroforestry and funded by the European Union (EU), brings together wildlife conservation experts and conservators, partners and associates from the two countries, a representative of the EU in Tanzania as well as senior government officials from the two East African countries. Among other objectives, the two-day meeting seeks to have local, national and regional stakeholders to have a dialogue around various issues affecting the ecosystem. Participants, including farmers from the two nations, will share best practices among wildlife project implementers. Officiating the meeting and launching of the SEMA (Serengeti–Mara Ecosystem) Week, Arusha Regional Commissioner Mrisho Gambo said the ecosystem was important for the tourism business and its multiplier effects in the economies of Tanzania and Kenya, calling upon participants to come forward with action plans towards sustainable conservation of the ecosystem. The RC, through a speech read by Monduli District Commissioner Idd Kimanta, said the ecosystem was important in earning foreign currency and more investments in tourism infrastructure. “Tourism not only creates jobs in the tertiary sector but also encourages growth in the primary and secondary sectors of industry, including agriculture, livestock and hoteliers. Investors in this tourism business also pay taxes to both countries,” he said. However, he expressed concern about challenges that include lack of concerted cooperation in conservation efforts between Serengeti National Park in Tanzania and Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya. “Each side is active in its area, while wild animals do not recognise administrative boundaries between the two countries ... I call upon government agencies working on conservation of wildlife on policy and legal issues to work on recommendations of this meeting. We should continue policy dialogue between Kenya and Tanzania for betterment of Serengeti. The Tanzanian government thanks Vi Agroforestry and all stakeholders for this project,” he said. Serengeti Wildlife Research Centre (SWRC), Director, Dr Robert Fyumagwa, said that they are working towards promoting cross- sectoral dialogue up to national and regional level. He said that under Tanzania Research Institute (TAWIRI), they will be supporting targeted villages around the ecosystem, and strengthen collaboration in conservation and reduce poaching. A senior Kenya Wildlife Service official, Mr Augustine Ajuoga, said they were seeking to identify and mark wildlife corridors that have been or are likely to be blocked and sensitize the public on the importance of conservation and leave corridors clear for wildlife to migrate. The SEMA project is for a three-year stint, from last year, supporting interventions that improve cross-border collaboration in conservation as well as legal intervention.