ACCOUNT holders with the defunct FBME Bank have been assured of payments of their deposits, as the governments of Tanzania and Cyprus are finalising procedures for recovery of assets and liabilities of the banned financial institution. The former international bank with its headquarters in Tanzania and a branch in Cyprus, had its business licence revoked by the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) in 2017 and placed it under the Deposit Insurance Board as a liquidator. This is after the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network had in 2014 accused the bank, which operated primarily in Cyprus, for facilitating financial transactions for multinational organised criminal organisations. Speaking in the National Assembly, Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, said procedures for recovery of the deposits of account holders in Tanzania are being conducted in line with the Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 2006. “The governments of Tanzania and Cyprus through officials of Central Banks of the two countries met in April 5th this year to deliberate on the issue, and decided on payment modalities to be followed for the customers,” she explained. Dr Kijaji made the assurance here yesterday while responding to a basic question by Special Seats MP, Ms Asha Abdullah Juma (CCM) and a supplementary question by Mpendae MP, Mr Salim Hassan Turky (CCM). The MP had tasked the government to explain the fate of depositors in the defunct bank. “The procedure to recover assets and funds deposited by FBME in other financial institutions has faced legal challenges given the fact that most of the operations of the bank were based at its branch in Cyprus,” she explained. The Deputy Minister noted further that the Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 2006 stipulate that depositors with not more than 1.5m/- are cushioned for compensation by the Deposit Insurance Board and thus they receive the full payment. “Those with above 1.5m/- are paid that amount as deposit insurance and the remaining amount as per provisions of liquidation law. The payment however depends on recovery funds and auctioning of property of the institution under liquidation,” she explained.