YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera said he is upset with failure of his charges to put in practice his football philosophy despite winning 2-1 against Tanzania Prisons at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. The victory enabled Yanga to maintain their grip of the top spot with 80 points thanks to goals from Papy Tshishimbi and Heritier Makambo, who scored in each half on the day. Tanzania Prisons goal was netted by Ismail Kada. It was the 16th goal for Makambo this season, who is on the race for golden boot chase at the end of the campaign, fighting neck to neck with Simba’s Meddie Kagere and Salim Aiyee of Mwadui FC. Kagere leads the pack on 17 goals, while Aiyee has 16 same as Makambo. However, pundits are giving Kagere more chances to win the accolade due to addition games his team is yet to play before closing the season. On the other hand, Yanga’s playmaker and Captain Ibrahim Ajib recorded his 17th assist of the campaign as he orchestrated the opening goal after his well-calculated set piece picked Tshishimbi in the box to head in the first goal for the former champions. Ajib also set up Makambo’s goal and also provided the deciding cross which gifted his compatriot Mrisho Ngasa the only goal when they downed Azam FC 1-0 at the same venue last week. Without doubt, the remarkable performance from Ajib is what has made him to be recalled in the recently released national football team Taifa Stars squad readying for international duties. Briefing members of the media after the clash, Zahera said what he trains his boys is different from the output on the pitch. “We failed to provide essential crosses especially in the first half since the ball was concentrated much in the midfield. This deprived strikers to get sight of the goal as they lacked potential balls,” Zahera said. He added that his players were more relaxed as compared with their past match against Azam a thing he disclosed that propelled his opponents to win and create more chances during the clash than them. He then referred to the move of the second goal scored by Makambo as the type of football he wanted to see from the players. “That was derived from the training we had prior to the game. I wanted to see a lot of such type of crosses which could have made us to win with big number of goals,” the Congolese coach said. On his part, Tanzania Prisons Coach, Mohamed Rishard saluted his team for staging a good fight even though they were victims of the defeat. “We missed possible eight scoring chances and we played better than them (Yanga) only that we were not lucky to hit behind the net,” Richard said. He then partly blamed the pitch, saying it is slippery and that they hardly had time to train on it. Commenting on their next home tie versus Simba, the coach said all the mistakes they showed on the day will be addressed so as to reap maximum three points over Simba. “We know that Simba is a good side with quality players but every game is different and we will try everything possible to win,” the coach vowed.