VARIOUS strategies, including review of agribusiness levies and restructuring of the National Irrigation Commission’s (NIRC) management, are underway to improve agriculture. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa (pictured) said in the National Assembly here yesterday that the review of agri-business levies aims at creating friendly environment for business people dealing in farm inputs to reduce prices and enable farmers, especially in villages, to afford the inputs. Premier Majaliwa, responding to impromptu questions from Members of Parliament (MPs), admitted that the government is aware of the farmers’ complaints over exorbitant costs of farm inputs. Mr Joseph Mhagama (Madaba—CCM) posed the question, seeking to know if the government was ready to help farmers to access farming inputs at low prices compared to the current situation. The MP argued that taxes on agribusiness remain substantial and complex, involving land rent, local government levies, licences and value-added tax (VAT) on fuel. He said efforts by the government to have sustainable system of supplying farming inputs to farmers at the village level is being hampered by high costs of farming inputs, advising the government to think of reducing levies on small scale agri-business people who pay up to 600,000/- for their businesses. “It’s true that we have received complaints from farmers and this is why we are now reviewing all these levies and we will soon come up with proper procedures that will facilitate and stimulate business growth in agriculture,” said Premier Majaliwa. He said one of the tasks the government was currently undertaking is to engage all ministers whose ministries are directly involved in charging unfriendly levies that hamper business growth. According to the premier, the ministers have already met and proposed review of the levies. “I want to assure all businesspeople in the country that the government is working ontheir outcry and is reviewing all levies…we will soon communicate to the public the measures taken,” he stated. Mr Majaliwa further hinted that the government dissolved the NIRC last week due to its failure to deliver, subjecting the country to dependence on rain-fed farming and ultimately, food security threat. “It’s unfortunate that most irrigation schemes in the country have been rendered worthless and useless, that’s why we suspended six NIRC directors and relocated 25 other officials,” he stressed. He noted that the ministry of agriculture has already formed a team to probe the failure, insisting that appropriate actions will be taken against all people behind the collapse of irrigation schemes. Mr Majaliwa said another strategy includes review of regulations governing NIRC whose activities have been shifted to the ministry of agriculture from the water portfolio. The premier noted further that in the new structure, agricultural and irrigation officers will now be working together with extension officers from the district level contrary to the past where officers were only working from regional to zonal levels. He was responding to Suzan Lyimo (Special Seats— Chadema) who had wanted to know why irrigation schemes have not been given priority by the government. Mary Chatanda (Korogwe Urban—CCM) asked similar question, arguing that many irrigation schemes have failed to deliver and wanted to know if the government was ready to investigate and take appropriate action against all people who have subjected the country to huge losses.