NATIONAL football team, Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta has expressed his delight to win the Ebony Shoe, 2018/19, a prize for the best African footballer in Belgium. Samatta was rewarded for his exploits with KRC Genk where he has so far scored 23 league goals as well as three in the UEFA Europa League for the club. “I am delighted to win this d’ebbene golden shoe award, but it wouldn’t be fair if I do not recognise and give thanks to my fellow players, the coaching staff, the fans and every supporter of Genk. I know I wouldn’t be here without them. “Furthermore, I’m deeply thankful to all who voted for me to win this award, for; they have made a significant contribution to my season. Also, I would like to thank my fellow Tanzanians for their well wishes and prayers. “Surely it is a dream of every player to win this exceptional award. I would like to thank my team mates and my wonderful fans for their amazing support. And, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate my coach for winning the coach of the year award,” he tweeted. Samatta beat other nominees -- Y ohan Boli (STVV), Mehdi Carcela (Standard), Arnaut Danjuma (Club Brugge) and Landry Dimata (Anderlecht) to the award. The striker was declared winner of the 28th Ebony Shoe at the gala held in Brussels over the weekend. However, the striker was not present at the gala and on his behalf, teammate Dieumerci Ndongala picked the prize handed out by former winners Emile Mpenza and Mémé Tchité. The 26-year-old Samatta succeeds Club Brugge star, Anthony Limbombe, who won the award last summer after an excellent season. Limbombe has since joined Ligue 1 side Nantes. Samatta is the first Genk winner of the Ebony Shoe since striker Moumouni Dagano of Burkina Faso won the prize in 2002. Souleymane Oulare was the first Genk player to win the Ebony Shoe in 1999. The prize also dubbed the Black Awards is not only limited to African players drawn from the continent but as well stars born abroad with African ancestry plying their trade in Belgium. Samatta, who has courted overtures from the EPL, Spain and French Ligue 1 outfits has been stupendous for Genk and tops the top tier’s golden boot race, scoring 23 in 30 cameos. The award has previously been won by current Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany, former Everton and Manchester United midfielder Maroune Fellaini as well as United striker Romelo Lukaku. The Tanzanian was rewarded for his exploits with KRC Genk where he has so far scored 23 league goals as well as three in the UEFA Europa League for the club. He becomes the first player from the CECAFA region to claim the award since 2007 when Burundian Mohammed Tchite won it while featuring for Anderlecht.