SPEAKER of the Parliament Job Ndugai has lauded Simba for retaining the Mainland Premier League title. Simba beat Singida United 2-0 at the Namfua Stadium in Singida on Tuesday evening to confirm their back to back league titles. Goals by deadly duo Meddie Kagere and skipper John Bocco assured Simba of their 20th league title with two games to spare. The Msimbazi Reds top the standings with record 91 points from 36 outings, five points above second placed Young Africans. Known to be a Simba fanatic, it would have gone as a major surprise without Speaker Ndugai chipping in a congratulatory message to his beloved team. Shortly after the routine question and answer session in the National Assembly Ndugai beaming with a bright smile, said Simba deserved the title, while also teasing Simba traditional rivals missing it despite holding onto the top spot for most part of the season. “I congratulate Simba for yet another milestone achievement…retaining the league title. I also congratulate Young Africans for holding onto the top position for the most part of the season but in the end they relinquished the spot to deserved champions Simba,” he said, amid cheers from MPs who support Simba and murmuring from those who support Yanga. Speaker Ndugai also urged MPs to register for a trip to Egypt next month, to go and support the national team, Taifa Stars in its Africa cup of Nations (AFCON) finals. The tournament is set to kick off from June 21st to July 19th this year. He said the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has made good arrangement for Tanzanians to get tickets and accommodation in Egypt, insisting that MPs who are considering to make the trip should quickly consult the federation because as time goes by it will be difficult to get accommodation in Egypt. Meanwhile, CCM Special Seats MP, Amina Mollel has advised the government to honour Taifa Stars’ skipper, Mbwana Samatta, who led his team, KRC Genk to win the Belgium top division league. Samatta netted 23 goals and finished second in the golden boot race. Mollel said Samatta’s achievement massively helped to promote Tanzania in Europe. Speaker Ndugai said the government has taken note and hopefully something good for Samatta will be arranged.