THE Lyamungo Agricultural Marketing Co-operative Society (Lyamungo Amcos) in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Region has collected 39,59 0 kilogrammes of coffee in the 2018 /2019 crop season. That was revealed by the Lyamungo Amcos Chairman Mr Gabriel Ollomi, when addressing the society’s Annual General Meeting, held in Lyamungo area, Hai District, in Kilimanjaro Region, over the weekend. “ The collection surpassed the collection of the 2017/2018 crop season which was 30,000 kilogrammes of coffee collected, whereby coffee farmers were paid a total of 5,000/- per kilo of coffee they provided,” he said. According to him, the income accrued by the Amcos was used in funding several projects in the education, health and the road infrastructure sectors, which he said was for the benefits of the members of the Amcos and other residents who reside from the villages which Lyamungo Amcos has its members as far as the coffee cultivation was concerned. “ During the last crop season, the Amcos spent 22m/- for the maintenance of a total of 17.2 kilometres of road; Lyamungo Sinde (4.2 km); Lyamungo Central (5.7 km); Lyamungo Kilanya (5.8 km) and Sereni Kijiweni (0.5 km),” he said. A total of 3.1m/- was spent to subsidise health insurance for its members, which he said the facilitation would help 134 Lyamungo Amcos members who registered with the health insurance, get health services as per the health insurance regulations. “ In the education sector the Lyamungo Amcos spent 2.1m/- to facilitate education of pupils in various schools. Let us congratulate ourselves because we are also facilitating the education of a second year student who is pursuing health studies at the Machame Health Training Institute; likewise, this crop season, we have spent 10m/- for the facilitation of two more students who are pursuing their health studies,” he said. Commenting on the future plans of the Lyamungo Amcos, Mr Ollomi said it included that of introducing the cultivation of new crops and fruits, while at the same time maintaining the crops and fruits which have already been introduced with the intention of increasing the income of the society. “ The crops and fruits to be introduced and maintained include beans, avocados, grape fruits, sweet potatoes, Irish potatoes and bananas, for both consumption and business purposes,” he said.