HEATED debate ensued in the National Assembly here on Monday over the commercial viability of Buzwagi Gold Mine, with the government insisting on its rehabilitation and closure. But, several Members of Parliament (MPs) opposed to the government move to close the mine, proposing alternative strategies for the mine, which allegedly has over 28tri/- gold reserve, to continue with production. Acacia’s Buzwagi Gold Mine in Shinyanga region was in 2016 declared not commercially viable, with recommendations made to close the open pit. It’s acceptable practice that whenever a company relinquishes the mining title, whether for exploration or mining site, it remains responsible for the site rehabilitation before departure. However, Kahama Urban MP Jumanne Kishimba (CCM) argued that the government has 16 per cent share in Buzwagi Gold Mine and if it will approve the closure plan over fear of earthquake impact, as explained by the minerals ministry, it will be burying 28tri/- worth of gold. Initially, winding up the ministry’s budget estimates for 2019/2020 fiscal year, Deputy Minister for Minerals Stanslaus Nyongo said as per the mine plan, it was recommended that the Buzwagi open mining pit be closed. “Buzwagi is the open pit and recommendations from geological experts are for rehabilitation and closure of the pit because it’s dangerous to leave it open especially in case of tremor occurring. It may cause huge landslides and damages to people around the area,” argued Mr Nyongo.But, Mr Kishimba disputed the deputy minister’s arguments, demanding for the house to deliberate on the matter, the plea that Speaker Job Ndugai approved. Kigoma North MP on CCM ticket Peter Serukamba was the first to contribute, asking the speaker to form a fact finding committee to visit and find out the commercial viability of the mine. He insisted that it will not be right for the government to rush into closing the pit, especially after reports suggested that there was still 28tri/- worth of gold reserve. Bunda MP Boniphace Mwita Getere (CCM) supported the government’s move, saying it was right to close the pit and later conduct an assessment on the best ways to extract the minerals, if any, in future. Richard Ndasa (Sumve– CCM) argued against the mine closure advising the government instead to get the right investor to re-develop the mine for the country to reap the benefits of available natural resources. “Our budget is around 32tri/- and we are told that the pit has gold reserve worth 28tri/- and still we want to bury everything down...I think this is not right,” Mr Ndasa charged. Another MP, Salome Makamba (Special Seats—Chadema) said the government should conduct its own assessment to determine the commercial viability of the mine instead of relying on assessments by investors, saying investors might be seeking the exit route from the business. Similar sentiments were echoed by Geita Rural legislator Joseph Msukuma (CCM) who seconded Kishimba’s arguments as valid and asked the government to form the committee to probe the mine. Responding to MPs, Minerals Minister Doto Biteko said it was in the government’s interest to have the mine properly rehabilitated and later securing another investor to operate it. He said the current investor’s mining closure plan is embroiled in massive cheating, adding that the investor had placed the rehabilitation bond of 23 million US dollars, which is meagre for the project. Minister Biteko also dismissed the investor’s plan to develop the pit into the lake, saying its waters are toxic and subject the adjacent communities and ecosystems to serious risks. Buzwagi Gold Mine was opened in 2009 as an open pit mine and the investor claims to have mined more ore than it was able to process. The excess ore was stockpiled on the site and now the open pit is almost running out of commercial viability. The house endorsed 49,466,898,200/- for the ministry’s budget in 2019/2020 fiscal year, with development and recurrent expenditures allocated 7,039,810,200/- and 42, 427,088,000/-, respectively.