THE government intends to create a single regulatory agency to implement reforms for improvement of the business environment in the country. Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Investment, Angellah Kairuki said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the bill will seek to streamline and rationalise licencing procedures, taxes and levies as part of implementation of reforms proposed in the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve business environment. “We hope to come up with a law to make regulatory agencies a stand-alone,” she said in her opening remarks of a high-level investment and business environment dialogue between the government and British investors. The cabinet early last year approved the blueprint, which proposes a raft of amendments to laws and regulations governing business in Tanzania. The Minister for Trade and Industry, Mr Joseph Kakunda, was quoted by media as saying official implementation of the reforms begins in July, this year. It proposes regulation of businesses should be mandated to the single regulatory agency or administered through one stop service centres in order to enhance coordination and minimize transaction costs and regulatory burden on the part of the private sector. The minister said the gov-ernment was currently developing a Blueprint Action Plan (BAP) for the implementation of the proposed reforms in the blueprint to attract more investments. She said the government was working on policy reforms to strike an appropriate balance between the rights and obligations of investors and the need to protect foreign investors while at the same time ensuring that the legal obligations are held. The government appreciated contributions made by investments by the British investors in terms of job creation, running close to 300,000 direct jobs and numerous more indirectly, she said. “From supporting tea production in Njombe to doing horticulture in Arusha, from mineral processing in Mbeya to developing real estate in Dar es Salaam, these private investments have enhanced capacity and contributed to growth in their respective sectors, eventually transforming many lives in Tanzania,” she said. British High Commissioner in Tanzania, Sarah Cooke said the high-level dialogue had come at the most opportune time when Tanzania lackluster performance in ease of doing business ratings by the world bank and a decline in foreign direct investment and a “severe lack of confidence for business prospects over the next two years if things don’t change. ” She said British companies had identified challenges they face in doing business which include lack of policy predictability, cutting through multiplicity of bureaucracy. “Business works best when the policy regulatory and taxation framework are predictable and transparent. When businesses invest, they plan for the long-term. They need to know the rule of the game won’t suddenly change, particularly without consultation,” she said. The High Commissioner said British companies pay an estimated five per cent of all tax revenues in Tanzania and have created nearly 300,000 jobs in the last 10 to 15 years. “These are not businesses that are here today, gone tomorrow. That brings in labour from elsewhere. These are businesses that are investing for the long-term, creating jobs for Tanzanians,” she said.