TANZANIA still faces an acute shortage of paediatric surgeons compared to demand. As it stands, the ratio of paediatric surgeons to the country’s population is 1/20,000,000 for infants, children, adolescents and young adults combined. Tanzania Surgical Association (TSA) president, Dr Catherine Mung’ong’o, attributed the shortage to lack of interest among medical practitioners in specialising in surgery. “A great deal of medical officers end up becoming general practitioners, a situation, which is detrimental to the health sector,” explained Mung’ong’o yesterday at a media briefing ahead of an upcoming TSA annual general meeting and a scientific conference scheduled for Mwanza on June 12-14. She noted that access to emergent surgical care was being hindered by a shortage of surgeons, especially those in paediatric care. According to Dr Mung’ong’o, the country has only three paediatric surgeons, one stationed at Muhimbili National Hospital, while the remaining two are based at Bugando Referral Hospital. “We have two surgeons in Mwanza because of growing demand in the Lake Zone,” she noted. General practitioners are capable of operating patients, especially those with cleft lip and cleft palate conditions under strict guidance from surgeons themselves, according to Dr Mung’ong’o, who is also a surgeon at Selian Hospital in Arusha. Another field that needs immediate attention, according to the health specialist, is anaesthesiology, a medical specialty concerned with perioperative care of patients before, during and after surgery. Before the annual general meeting, which will be graced by President John Magufuli, the surgeons, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, will offer medical surgical services in all specialties such as general surgery, orthopaedics, Urology, gynaecology, plastic surgery and obstetrics at Bugando Referral Hospital, Musoma Regional Hospital, Sekou Toure, Shinyaga Regional Hospital, Geita and Chato hospitals between June 3 and 7, this year. The exercise will be followed by minimal invasive surgeries and cleft lips and palate repairs. The annual general meeting’s theme is: Advances and Safe Surgery in Rural and Urban Population.