PATIENTS requiring endoscopy services will have a one stop shop next month when the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) sets up a camp for the services beginning June 7 to 21. Endoscopy is a minimally invasive procedure where an instrument is used to look inside the human body for medical reasons. A gynaecologist at the BMH, Dr Januarius Hinju, pointed out here that medical experts at BMH will team up with their counterparts from the US to conduct a two-week camp at the public facility. “Women with reproductive problems may start coming to BMH for medical check-ups, and those with serious problems would undergo endoscopic surgery during the camp,” the hospital’s gynecologist said. This will be the hospital’s second camp for endoscopy services, the first one having been conducted last June. Dr Hinju noted that recovery time after endoscopic surgery or minimally invasive surgery (MIS) can be days instead of the weeks or months compared to traditional open neurosurgery. “The endoscopic surgical procedure enables surgeons to treat conditions in critical areas that were once considered too hard to reach or inoperable,” he observed. Earlier this year, BMH registered yet another achievement after performing laparoscopic removal of a gallbladder on three male patients. The hospital’s Executive Director, Dr Alphonse Chandika, told the ‘Daily News’ that laparoscopic surgery had many advantages compared to common surgery, saying it was less painful to patients compared to the open procedure. He explained that laparoscopic surgery removal of gallbladder was a procedure in which the gallbladder is removed and that it may be removed due to recurrent gallstones. “Previously, such an operation could be performed through open procedure. Laparoscopic procedure is a modern procedure,” the hospital’s top executive said. Dr Chandika cited the advantages of laparoscopic surgery as including reduced pain due to smaller incision, reduced haemorrhaging and shorter recovery time compared to the normal procedure.