SIMBA striker and skipper John Bocco and Head Coach, Patrick Aussems have completed a brace of consecutive Player and Coach of the Month awards. Simba are looking unstoppable and moved a point clear at the top of the Mainland Premier League ahead of Y oung Africans, following their 8-1 win over Coastal Union at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. And with a perfect record over the last few months, it comes as little surprise that Bocco and Aussems have bagged two awards in a row, as announced yesterday by the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB). Bocco won the April award after he outshined his teammate, Ugandan Emmanuel Okwi and Y oung Africans Congolese striker, Heritier Makambo, who were also shortlisted by the Award Committee. The towering striker scored three goals for the Msimbazi Street based side in April and was involved in four of Simba’s six league games in April. During that month, Simba won five matches and lost one. Okwi and Makambo also scored the same numbers of goals but the committee picked Bocco because he had more assists for his side compared to his challengers. Belgian tactician Aussems was picked for the April award ahead of Y anga’s Congolese trainer Mwinyi Zahera and Azam FC Coach Abdul Mingange. Aussems guided his charges to win five matches out of six and moved from third to second position of the log. Bocco and Aussems also scooped the award for the month for March, following a string of impressive performance in the league matches. Both Bocco and Aussems will be presented with 1m/- and a trophy by Biko Sports plus Azam TV decoder from the league TV rights owners Azam TV. Simba’s ace striker, Meddie Kagere won the award for February alongside Tanzania Prisons coach, Mohammed Rishard, while KMC Head Coach Burundian, Ettiene Ndayiragije and Alliance FC player, Dickson Ambudo won the best coach and player of the month for January. Yanga made a clean sweep of December awards in which, Makambo emerged player of the month, while Zahera won the coach of the month. The duo won similar accolades for the month of November and they picked from where they had left to win December top honours. Okwi secured the month award for October after a string of good performances in the league. Mbeya City’s Eliud Ambokile won the September award, while Kagere won the August award. Coaches who won the award and the respective month in bracket are Amri Said of Mbao FC (August), Mwinyi Zahera of Y anga (September), Azam’s Hans Pluijm (October) and Zahera (November).