THE morning heat had already soaked through the walls of a small office of a Madimba Village office, about 27 kilometres from Mtwara town centre. Immature mangoes hanging on old trees which provide shade from the heat of a blazing sun suggest there will be plenty of the fruits from November when the harvesting season begins. By October, the dry season was tracking to its peak in most parts of East African region and for Madimba as well as the neighbouring villages, it had already taken its toll on a few small dug water wells. Women carrying water buckets and men pushing carts were seen on the adjacent gravel road going to collect water from the only source near a primary school at the village, thanks to the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) which provided the village with a water project in 2015 through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Five huge tanks have been installed near Village School drawing water from a source at Mchepa Village, pumped from natural gas processing plant at Msimbati for treatment, nearly 14 kilometres from the village. The project is the only source of clean and safe water for 3,225 villagers in Madimba, as counted in 2016/17, as well as other villagers of Mitambo, Litende, Mayaya, Mpendachi, Namidondi and Mngoji villages, according to the Village Chairman, Musa Madiva. Madimba Village is where TPDC natural gas processing plant is located. The plant process natural gas from Mnazi Bay fields before it is transported to Dar es Salaam via a 542 kilometre pipeline constructed through a $1.225 billion concessional loan from Export-Import Bank of China. Madimba Village is located in Madimba Ward of Mtwara District where 67 per cent of households use non-improved drinking water source which include unprotected dug wells (22.3 per cent), unprotected spring (7.7 per cent) and rain water collection (10.7 per cent), according to Basic Demographic and Socio-Economic Profile of Mtwara Region (2016) prepared by the National Bureau of Statistics. To put that into perspective, all surface water sources, such as lakes, rivers and streams or poorly constructed wells, are examples of unprotected sources. Water from unprotected sources cannot be considered safe to drink unless it has been treated because they are not protected from outside contamination, in particular from faecal matter. Mzee Madiva, the Village Chairman, looks ready and happy to speak about the benefits they get following the discovery of massive natural gas reserves in their neighbourhood. He cautioned us, however, that he has been receiving a whole lot of people - politicians, researchers, journalists asking on the same subject. He mentioned employment opportunities for villagers, support to a village dispensary, construction of pit latrines at the village school and a water project as main benefits they have enjoyed from investments by TPDC in the village. On employment, he said there are few people from the village who were directly employed by the gas company during different phases of construction of the natural processing plant. TPDC supported their primary school to construct eight pit latrines that provided huge relief for pupils and improved sanitation and hygiene condition at the school. He says they are also grateful to TPDC that the water project had helped to ease water crisis in Madimba and neighbouring villages which relied on ponds and small dug wells. The water project, managed by a special community water committee, has changed lives of the residents in the village by improving access to clean and safe water which helped to reduce outbreak of waterborne infectious diseases, he says. However, there are challenges. It serves too many people and they wish it is extended to other localities and villages. “We are thankful after the gas company came they asked us what was our priority and helped us with water project. However, the project has its challenges. People from neighbouring village walk long distance to fetch water at Madimba.” The Village Executive Officer (VEO) for Madimba Village, Juma Lila, shares the concerns about water challenges in the village and reveals that it is only three tanks that were working. Two tanks were found leaking and are not used, he said. It is not clear, however, how they plan to fix the problem or whether they are waiting for TPDC to do it. Musa Mngoni (47), from Mchepa Village is also thankful that they can get clean and safe water even though he has to walk for about two Kilometres to fetch water. TPDC Communications Manager, Maria Msellemu says corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes are part of their activities as they seek to enhance the well being of the local communities where they work by contributing to social and economic development activities which improve their quality of life. “We have our CSR policy which is at the core of our daily operations and guides our future progress. The aim is to help in improving the wellbeing of our host communities.” Under the CSR policy they provide support on health, education, water, good governance and environment to communities where they operate in Dar es Salaam, Coast, Lindi and Mtwara regions. How do they provide these services? They usually receive applications for support from the communities through village and district councils, she says. “We don’t wake up and go to provide support to any community. Their requests for support must pass through their village and district councils.” “Normally they (communities) send us applications which must be approved by local government authorities. Their requests must be endorsed by their local government authorities.” TPDC conduct clinics for non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and provide HIV&AIDS counselling and testing every quarter of the year in areas they operate. Their support include also construction of pit latrines for disabled pupils at Shangani Primary School, repairs to Madimba Primary School in Madimba Village, support to Ndugambi Albino Women Group of Magomeni area in Mtwara District. They have also been involved in school desks campaign to ensure no pupil sits on the floor in Dar es Salaam and Coast regions and oil and gas laboratories for 39 secondary schools in Lindi and Mtwara regions for 2017/18 financial year. According to TPDC Communications Manager, CSR implementation followed national policies and laws. However, field research in Mtwara points to issues and gaps in the implementation of the existing requirements and areas for improvement. To help address the lack of available social services and infrastructure, TPDC drilled a borehole that pumps 60,000 litres of water a day in Madimba in Mtwara region. Water access was a priority for the communities there because of long-standing issues of availability and access. However, at the time of field research, there were complaints that this was the only water point in the village and no investment in distribution of infrastructure had been made to improve broader access. According to the new Petroleum Act of 2015, a licence holder and a contractor shall on annual basis, prepare a credible corporate social responsibility plan jointly agreed by the relevant local government authority or local government authorities. The plan shall take into account environmental, social, economical and cultural activities based on local government priorities of host community. It looks certain that Madimba Villagers would benefit more from the gas investments with enforcement of the law that will lead to enhanced engagement in planning and implementation of the CSR projects to increase their social and economic impact.