THE government has directed all municipal councils in the country to impose stiff penalties on people, who discharge sewage, especially during the rainy season as a cholera epidemic is reported in Dar es Salaam. Speaking during her tour of one of the cholera camps at Amana Regional Referral Hospital in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu  said until yesterday, 32 people were reported to have contracted cholera. She said the patients were admitted to different Dar es Salaam cholera camps - Amana (13), Temeke (18) and Mwananyamala (1). Ms Mwalimu directed the municipal councils to issue bylaws that imposed stiff penalties on those discharging sewage as a way of combating the epidemic. “Cholera is caused by drinking or eating food contaminated by faeces. We have discovered that during the rainy season some people drain their sewage tanks and pollute not only the environment, but also water,” she noted. She said the fine imposed on those discharging sewage should be increased from the current 30,000/- to 200,000/- deter them from polluting the environment. The minister explained that since draining sewage cost 150,000/-, a 200,000/- fine would encourage them to utilise appropriate services of disposing of sewage instead of the current 30,000/- fine, which was affordable. Ms Mwalimu added that the government was not ready to spend money on preventable diseases. She thus appealed to members of the public to support the government by exposing people, who were polluting the environment by emptying their cesspools during the rainy season. Meanwhile, Ms Mwalimu has warned private hospitals against using dengue fever for personal interests. She said the government was aware of some private health facilities, which were overcharging people going for dengue test and was working on health service guidelines in the country. “I was thinking of issuing a cap price for dengue fever, but there are still some challenges. So, we are going to issue guidelines on health services in the country because we are aware even what test kits for dengue fever cost,” she said. She insisted that a diagnostic test for dengue fever was free of charge from all identified public health facilities. According to the ministry’s latest report, 2,971 people have been diagnosed with dengue fever since it was first reported in January, this year, with Dar es Salaam Region leading by having 2,831 patients followed by Tanga (118), Coast Region (19), Singida (1) and Morogoro (1) patients. Dar es Salam Regional Medical Officer, Dr Yudas Ndungile, said the fight against dengue fever was being done by issuing various guidelines not only to members of the public, but also to medical practitioners. He noted that not all patients, who went to health facilities, were eligible for undergoing dengue fever test because not all illnesses were dengue fever. “If a patient is suspected of having dengue virus will undergo testing because if the test is done to everyone going to hospital itwill be wastage of resources. In Dar es Salaam alone 40 per cent (equivalent to 1,255 people), who underwent dengue fever diagnostic test, were negative,” he said.