WOMEN delivering on their ways to a health facility as a result of long trek will soon be a thing of the past for Mafinga residents at Kipengere Ward in Wanging’ombe District, following the support of the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) to construct them a modern Dispensary. That was said by a beneficiary of the TASAF scheme that tries to alleviate poverty in the area, Rafikinjema Mgaya yesterday, while talking to a team of journalists visiting the agency’s implemented projects. Equally, TASAF being funded by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in the region in particular is complementing the government’s goal to ensure that the citizens have access to quality healthcare at close proximities, as in other parts of the country. According to Mgaya, the Dispensary is going to bring a lot of relief to them especially women who had to travel up to 45 kilometres or more to acquire health services. She also disclosed that the nearest facility which is five kilometres away from their homes is quite expensive for the majority to afford. “If a person is admitted to Kipengele Health Centre for a day or two it may cost up to 80,000/- besides transportation to get there, thus most of the people go to Ikonde that is located 45km away, because the costs there are a bit cheaper. “The situation was very miserable for people like us because at times you don’t have the money, therefore you will need to go back home,” said Mgaya. The beneficiary pointed out that she is among women who once gave birth while on the way to the health centre, because her family was still preparing prompting her to delay. Because of the available by-laws, Mgaya had to pay a fine amounting to 20,000/-, but again she was lucky when she arrived at the facility without developing complications. Reached for a comment, the area Ward Executive Officer (WEO), Mr Martin Ilomo confirmed that for many years since the village was set up, it has been a hustle for them to access health services because they have no alternative.