TANZANIA Volleyball Association (TAVA) secretary Alfred Selengia is now keen to develop volleyball skills with his recently garnered skills. Selengia was recently awarded the International Coaching Enrichment Certificate as part of the framework of African coaches development programme which aims to create a new network of instructors throughout the continent. Confederation Africa Volleyball (CAVB) president Amr Elwani said in a press release issued this week Selengia project was titled ‘National High Performance Coaching Education Programme’. Elwani said that Selengia successfully presented his project at the FIVB Headquarters and was awarded the certificate after completing a seven-month online course. “He conducted two courses with 130 coaches from all corners of Tanzania,” stated Elwani. The International coaching education programme (ICECP) is a coaching education conducted by the University of Delaware in collaboration with United States Olympic and Olympic solidarity. “The graduation of Alfred will add additional skills to the CAVB coaches’ instructors who will then help coaching process throughout the continent,” Elwani said. Adding that: “We aim at spreading the coaching skills and related information across the continent not only in our zone V, but also in other zones and also through the new ‘E learning strategy’. He said: “My project under High Performance Coaching Education programme has provided me full education on how I can conduct a good project at home. “The studies started online in Sept and Oct 2018, I continued it at Colorado Springs, USA. From 2018 Nov to March 2019 I started conducting my project at home and also continue with online courses. World body FIVB also offered him a coaching certificate level III in Lausanne, Switzerland May 2 2019 during his final module and graduation ceremony. He also thanked Muharami Mchume who introduces the course to him, the former TAVA chairman Agustino Agapa for leading his career way, family and everyone out there who had made him through all this.