THE government has assured the family of the late Dr Reginald Mengi of continued support in sustaining his multi-billion business empire. Delivering a message of condolence during a requiem mass at the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) church in Moshi town yesterday, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the government will accord the bereaved family necessary support in running the companies left behind by the business and media mogul. “The best you can do in honoring the late Mengi is to pick up where he has left, the government will be behind you throughout your quest,” said the PM. He further assured the deceased’s family to turn to the government in case they faced any challenges as they struggle to keep the group of companies afloat in Dr Mengi’s absence. “Our doors are always open, you can always count on us,” he assured. In the same vein, the premier challenged other businesspersons in the country to emulate the late Mengi, saying he demonstrated selflessness in helping the poor despite his wealth and status in the country. He described the late devout philanthropist as a true patriot to his country. According to Mr Majaliwa, every Tanzanian acknowledged what the wealthy businessman had done to the country, adding that he was ready to offer advice on the country’s economic issues. He said: “We will continue to cherish what he did to Tanzanians and the country as a whole; he will beremembered for his immense contribution to the development of our country.” According to the premier, Dr Mengi has left a poignant lesson on how to help the less privileged in the society. The PM recalled how the late businessman unconditionally donated one billion shillings at a fundraising event for the St Pamachius Inclusive School in Hai District early this year, where he had also been invited to grace the occasion. “He is revered for helping those in need without any conditions, a very rare trait among human beings,” he said. Earlier, while eulogising his father, Mr Abdiel Mengi described the late author and philanthropist as patriotic and daring. According to the son of the deceased, Dr Mengi had demonstrated a unique ability in identifying opportunities. On his part, the Chairman of Tanzania’s main opposition party Chadema described Dr Mengi as a humble person despite his wealth. “He was neither a leader in the government nor the head of a political party, but he was still humble.” Echoing similar sentiments, the Secretary General of Chama Cha Mapinduzi, Dr Bashiru Ally, recounted how the media mogul insisted on going to the SG’s house for a planned meeting. Dr Ally revealed that last month, they had a prolonged disagreement on who should host the other, yet it was Dr Mengi who took trouble to visit the CCM official at his residence. Delivering a message from President Uhuru Kenyatta, Ms Anna Nyokabi Kenyatta Muthama described the late Mengi as someone who had lived a life of service to others. “He touched so many lives throughout his life; his name was synonymous with success, generosity and discipline,” she said. After a four-hour requiem mass which was preceded by paying of last respects session, the body of the fallen businessman was finally laid to rest in his ancestral home in Nkuu Sinde- Kisereni, Machame in Hai District at 1630hrs. He was buried close to the grave of his son Rodney Motie.