...Gets 37bn/- World Bank support for transformation of teaching courses THE World Bank has issued 16.25 million US dollars (about 37bn/-) to Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), Mwanza campus, in support of increased access to technical and vocational education and training (TVET) programmes. The funding also aims at improving the quality of TVET programmes as well as supporting integration, with the objective of transforming the campus into the regional centre of excellence (CoE) in leather processing and allied technologies. DIT will work on all the funding goals through a five-year Eastern African for Transformation and Regional Integration (EASTRIP) project, which is set to take-off next month, DIT Mwanza Campus Manager Dr Albert Mmari told the Daily News in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. “The same project will also be implemented in Kenya and Ethiopia, each country with its own fund, this means that the released 16.25 million dollars are for DIT only. ESTRIP official launch is scheduled for Ethiopia next month,” said Dr Mmari. He added; “In addressing the institutional challenges for DIT Mwanza becoming the CoE, the strategic investment plan has some objectives, including strengthening the industrial liaisons, establishing programme advisory committee, enhancing instructors’ industrial attachment, performing tracer studies and strengthening DIT alumni association to institutionalise industrial linkages.” Through EASTRIP, according to the manager, the campus will also construct buildings for CoE, procure special leather training equipment and teaching aids to cover the upgrading of key training facilities and equipment. The output of the investment is to increase students’ enrollment, improve handson- skills to students and tutors, sustain industry and Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs) linkage and increase the centre’s income, said Dr Mmari. Currently, DIT Mwanza campus faces various challenges, including lack of modern machines for full leather processing up to leather goods production step, despite abundance of raw materials in Lake Zone, charged the campus manager. He explained that after collecting the raw materials—hides and skins—there are almost other four main steps—wet blue, crust, finished leather and leather goods production. “Unfortunately, due to lack of modern machines for all those steps, the campus ends up on wet blue—the process of applying chemicals for hides and skins preservation, ready for export. We urge the government to support us because we are capable of producing all kinds of leather goods and contribute immensely to the national economy,” he said. Despite the lack of modern machines, Dr Mmari added, the campus through manual technology, has been trying its level best to reach the final step, producing foot wear, hand bags, footballs, and belts among other leather goods. Already, schools and armies have started placing orders for the footwear from the campus, he said, stressing that the campus envisages going for fully leather goods’ commercialisation once it acquires the modern machines and switch from manual to digital production. Commenting on the Campus’ capabilities on leather goods production, the manager said the institution has about 50 students, each with ability to produce three pairs of footwear, one football (size 5) and at least one phone cover or a belt, per day. However, he decried low interest by students in leather courses due to wrong perception that they have nothing to do with leather profession in their future. Triggering self-employment is among the benefits of the leather profession, according to Dr Mmari, “We assure the public that all our graduates in leather processing who opted for entrepreneurship have advanced in their businesses.”