security challenges due to terrorism and other transnational organised crimes in neighbouring countries, the country’s 5,401-kilometre borders remain safe, the government said yesterday. Ndugaiand National Service Minister Dr Hussein Mwinyi described security at border points as generally superb, adding that there were no any security threats between Tanzania and the neighbouring countries that were reported between July 2018 and April 2019. Tabling the ministry’s budget estimates for 2019/2020 fiscal year in the National Assembly here, the minister pledged for the house to approve 1.9tri/- for recurrent and development expenditures. “The Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) has continued to discharge its duties of manning the country’s borders efficiently and professionally, ensuring that the country remains secure and safe,’’ he said. But, he quickly pointed out that although the country was secure; there were internal disputes within some neighbouring countries, which were forcing refugees, including criminals, to enter the country through border points. Another issue which posed security challenge, the minister said, is an influx of pastoralists who cross over to Tanzania on the pretext of looking for their livestock’s pastures. “Equally, our country has been facing a problem of human trafficking and illegal immigrants, some of them engaging themselves in criminal activities. In general, all the country borders constitute 5, 401 kilometres, including the Eastern Border of the Indian Ocean—1,424 kilometres— where no any security threat has been reported between July 2018 and April 2019. On the Northern part of the country, Tanzania borders Kenya and Uganda, with the border measuring 1,221 kilometres. “On this part, the country is secure, although there have been some instances of pastoralists sneaking their livestock in the country in search of pastures, but we have always been Continuesworking on the matter amicably with our neighbours,” he said. Dr Mwinyi said on the 1,220-kilometre Western boundary, Tanzania borders Rwanda, Burundi and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). He said the challenge was in the Easter DRC where Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militant group was continuing with its attacks against Force Intervention Brigade (FIB) of SADC at Beni town. The Southern Border with 1,536 kilometres, Tanzania has Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia as her neighbours. According to the minister, the border is safe, save for the northern parts of Mozambique where the criminal group of Al Sunnah Wal Jamaah has been carrying out criminal activities in some areas. The minister said a series of meetings between him and his Mozambican counterpart were still continuing to deliberate on the best ways to intensify cooperation on weeding out the criminal activities in the country.