PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday directed the Minister for Industry and Trade Joseph Kakunda to clear the ambiguity surrounding Mbeya Textile Mills Limited which was sold to an investor 18 years ago but it has remained unproductive to date. Dr Magufuli demanded to know the reason why the factory is dormant since 2001 when it was privatised without the authorities taking action, including repossessing it. He said the investor was even supposed to be prosecuted for delaying the country's development. He wondered why the authorities are still holding discussions with him instead of taking action. Earlier, the president was informed by Minister Kakunda that after the factory was sold to the investor, he transferred all the machines to Mwanza Textile, and that recently he has started bringing in other machines for confectionary. Mr Kakunda said that the investor was requested to bring a business plan by the Treasury Registrar, but he said as the minister, he could not approve it because it had a number of shortfalls. “I have directed the investor to present another business plan and provide answers on why he has changed the use of the factory,” he said. Later, Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Mr Albert Chalamila said that the investor was intending to establish a starch factory which will provide reliable market for maize farmers. "When the production takes off, the investor is expected to purchase up to 40 tonnes of maize,” he said. President Magufuli said that the factory has remained dormant for a long time, saying that if it was operational, it could have generated enough profit. “I want you to clear this uncertainty ... if you won’t I will decide for you, this is delaying tactic,” the president insisted. Meanwhile, the president has directed Mbeya Cement Company to consider providing dividend to the government. He said that since 2014, the government has never received dividend despite the fact that it owned 35 per cent shares of the company. "This factory was constructed using taxpayers money ... you should consider paying dividend this year because you have told us that you have started making profit,” Dr Magufuli said. He, however, commended the company management for producing clinker for cement production and creating employment to more youths. "The government banned the importation of clinker so that other cement companies may also get it from here," he said. During his tour of Mbeya Cement Company, President Magufuli demoted Tanzania Electric Supply Company Regional Manager for Songwe due to absenteeism. President Magufuli was on the ninth day of his tour of Mbeya region.