visiting Tanzania increased by 18 per cent from 1,327,143 in 2017 to 1,505,702 last year, with additional revenues of two million US dollars (over 4.5bn/-) for the country. Thanks to intensified antipoaching efforts, the country has as well recorded an increasing population of elephants. Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla tabling the ministry’s 120bn/- budget estimates for recurrent and development expenditures in the 2019/20 fiscal year, said the soaring number of tourists has led to increasing revenues. He told the house that tourists visiting various tourist attractions generated 2.4 billion US dollars (over 5.5tri/-) last year, a nine per cent rise from 2.2 billion dollars (over 5tri/-) earned in the previous year. Dr Kigwangalla attributed the influx of tourists to various promotion strategies, saying more tactics are being worked to attract more visitors. He reaffirmed the government’s commitment to publicise and promote tourism attractions both within and outside the country under the new Tanzania destination brand— Tanzania, Unforgettable. The minister noted that tourism promotion initiatives had yielded positive results, with just last month the country having received 1,000 tourists from Israel. He said on May 12, this year, 336 Chinese tourists jetted in, being part of the 10,000 potential visitors expected to tour the country before the end of the year. According to Dr Kigwangalla, the ministry intends to expand the scope of tourism to include Hot Air Balloon, Canopy Walkway and city tours to offer tourists a wide range of choices. He said the ministry is drawing investment guidelines of the sector to provide room for whoever is interested to invest in tourism. In creating conducive environment for potential investors into cruise ship tourism, the country is finalising plans to renew its membership with organisations of cruise ship tourism. Dr Kigwangalla said the ministry is done with the National Tourism Policy 2019, which has incorporated all stakeholders in its formation, and it only awaits the cabinet approval before being gazetted. On the anti-poaching, the minister told legislators that they have recorded tremendous achievements, with the elephant census conducted on Selous-Mikumi ecology in 2018 showing increasing number of the animals. “We are all witnessing increasing number of elephants, which were on the verge of extinction before we embarked on the anti-poaching campaign. During the census, not a single elephant was identified as dead in the ecology system,” said Dr Kigwangalla. He commended the national anti-poaching task force, saying it has done commendable work in dealing with notorious poachers.