A TASK force formed by the Tanzania National Business Council (TNBC) to collect and analyze views of experts on the best ways to implement Tanzania’s industrialisation strategy said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the government has so far done a commendable job towards making Tanzania a middle-income industrial economy. The task force has presented its report to a closeddoor meeting of TNBC Executive Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary. The committee is the second supreme organ of the TNBC. The national business council is chaired by the president of Tanzania. Addressing the press after presenting the report, the co-chairman of the task force (private sector), Mr Ali Mufuruki said the task force was satisfied with the measures taken by the government in a fresh bid to modernize and industrialize Tanzania. “We had exhaustive consultations with a wide range of people on this important issue from both sides. We are content with steps taken by the government in pursuit of this goal,” assured Mr Mufuruki. Steps taken include securing airplanes, building of roads, power projects and establishment of other types of physical infrastructure, the chairman said. As a result of the consultations, he explained, the private sector has submitted to the committee a draft policy on industries. Asked to shed light on the submitted document, Mr Mufuruki said experts proposed the kind of industries to be given priority, the importance of research, the importance of having an education system that prepares students for the kind of work and life they will face after studies. “In that document, we are calling for a fresh approach that pays sufficient attention to the capabilities of our people, the existing opportunities, economic empowerment of Tanzanians and markets for the proposed industries,” he said without giving further details. The co-chairman (public sector), Mr Joseph Simbakalia concurred with Mr Mufuruki, saying that Tanzania has had flourishing industries, especially textile industries. “We do not want a repeat of mistakes that ruined the industries in the past. That is what is important as of now,” he said. He also highlighted the task force’s appreciation of the government’s efforts in concretizing good governance, particularly its efforts in fighting corruption. He gave the example of Singapore, saying Singapore made great industrialization strides after winning their war against corruption. “We are identifying challenges, we are pushing for good governance, the government is creating a good, conducive climate for investment in this country and building infrastructure, without which it is hard to have sustainable industries,” he said. The report will be examined by the executive committee before it is presented to the national council for final action. Meeting of the TNBC are chaired by the president of Tanzania. The TNBC draws equal members from public and private sectors.