JUST rewind your life-cycle and think of a day when you had a feeling that no more money is needed henceforth. I am sure, howsoever hard one may try probably there was never a day when such kind of feeling ever touched our heart. Why so? Is man’s need for money endless or is there some other intriguing reason due to which we never say no to money? Realistically our needs are limited and thus the means to fulfil our needs must also have a limit. We know that money is one of the most prominent means to fulfil our needs. So if we are convinced that our needs are limited then why do we chase money endlessly and never say no to it. I agree that theoretically this corollary may not be true in respect of all human beings, but practically it will turn out to be true with the majority. Across the world we have divided the entire society between rich and poor. Even countries are tagged with similar connotations like: least developed, developing or emerging, and developed countries. How does this classification help us? Just because somebody has comparably more money than someone, he/she is identified as “rich” and the other person as “poor”. Is this the only parameter to classify somebody as rich or poor in our society? Probably not! So let us find out what we are missing on by studying some real time examples. In 1923, eight of the wealthiest people in the world met. Their combined wealth, it is estimated, exceeded the wealth of the government of the United States at that time. These men certainly knew how to make a living and accumulate wealth. But let’s examine what happened to them 25 years later:- (1) President of the largest steel company, Charles Schwab, lived on borrowed capital for five years before he died bankrupt. (2) President of the largest gas company, Howard Hubson, went insane. (3) One of the greatest commodity traders, Arthur Cutton, died insolvent. (4) President of the New York Stock Exchange, Richard Whitney, was sent to jail. The condition of the other four was nowhere better than the previous group, as number (5) a member of the President’s Cabinet, Albert Fall, was pardoned from jail to go home and die in peace. (6) The greatest “bear” on Wall Street, Jessie Livermore, committed suicide. (7) President of the world’s greatest monopoly, Ivar Krueger, committed suicide. And finally number (8) President of the Bank of International Settlement, Leon Fraser, committed suicide. What all these people forgot was how to make a life! Money in itself is not evil! Money provides food for the hungry, medicine for the sick, clothes for the needy. Money is only a medium of exchange. We need two kinds of education. One that teaches us how to make a living and one that teaches us how to live. There are people who are so engrossed in their professional life that they neglect their family, health and social responsibilities. If asked why they do this they would reply that they were doing it for their family. Our kids are sleeping when we leave home. They are sleeping when we come home. Twenty years later, we’ll turn back, and they’ll all be gone. Without water, a ship cannot move. The ship needs water, but if the water gets into the ship, the ship will face problems. What was once a means of living for the ship will now become a means of destruction? Similarly we live in a time where earning is a necessity but let not the earning enter our hearts, for what was once a means of living will become a means of destruction. So take a moment and ask yourself …. Has water entered into my ship? According to Vedas three utmost important things for happiness of a man are: (a) “Nirogi Kaya” - which means healthy body; (b) “Gunvati Naarii” – which means a companion full of virtues and qualities; and (c) “Putra Sadachari evam Agyakaari” – meaning obedient children full of high moral character. Rest all are creation of man’s own hard work and attitude. Therefore always remember that Richness is not earning more, spending more or saving more, but “RICHNESS IS WHEN YOU NEED NO MORE”. Is there anybody who will dare to follow this mantra in their lifetime at least once – I leave the decision squarely on you. Cheers!!!