YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said his charges just need to focus on their four remaining Mainland Premier League matches to finish at least in the second position this season. His sentiments came after a disappointing 2-0 defeat in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) semifinal clash at the hands of Lipuli FC at Samora Stadium in Iringa on Monday. It was Yanga’s fifth loss of the campaign in all competitions and dashed their hopes of clinching any silverware this season. Lipuli will now face former champions Azam in a sparkling ASFC finale whose overall winner becomes the country’s flag bearer in CAF Confederation Cup. Azam beat KMC 1-0 to sail into the finals and it is also their only hope to add a trophy in their cup board at the end of the season after a bumpy ride in the top flight league where they sit third on the ladder. A win by Azam will make them the first team to claim the title twice since the past ASFC bearers Yanga, Simba, Mtibwa Sugar and them (Azam) have each lifted it once. At a postmatch briefing, Zahera said the most important thing now is to win their upcomi n g f o u r final games to be assured of the second place finish. It means, the Congolese trainer has given up in the league title race, despite the fact that Yanga are still in contention to win the league silverware. “Initially, the team’s objective was to finish either on sixth or seventh place on the table at the end of the season due to the squad we have and the t r o u - bles we have been going through as a club,” Zahera said. He added that they did not want to end the season occupying beyond the tenth slot as such, he saluted his charges for putting up a good fight and surpass their target. Commenting on the match itself, Zahera said the idea that they can be active contenders of ASFC came midway in the season. “Reaching into the semifinals is a big achievement for the club due to the circumstances we have been going through as a team, only that luck was not on our side to step into the finals,” he said. Zahera further defended his tactical change of the game plan halfway in the second half which forced him to play with three defenders with centre back Abdallah Shaibu deployed upfront to partner with Heritier Makambo and Amis Tambwe. “After substituting Ibrahim Ajib for Juma Abdul, Shaibu had to operate as the striker since all of them (Makambo, Tambwe and Shaibu) are good in aerial balls which were being easily wasted before,” he said. He continued: “Immediately after the tactical switch, we had a good game by pressuring the hosts only that we were not lucky to hit the target.” In his words, Lipuli Coach Selemani Matola revealed that reaching into the ASFC finals was their dream and are ready to win it for the first time. Asked how he visualise the finale against Azam, Matola replied: “Azam is a good team but they as well can be defeated.”