THE National Electoral Commission (NEC) Electoral Director, Athuman Kihamia and senior officer at the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Shija Richard have been appointed as Young Africans Executive Committee Members. Yanga Chairman, M shindo M solla announced at a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the appointment was made by the club’s Executive Committee. Msolla said the appointment was effective yesterday, saying the appointment of one more member of the committee will be made soon. “The appointment of three members of the executive committee is in accordance with the club’s constitution as stipulated in Article 28(1) (d) of 2010,” Msolla who was recently elected at Yanga’s top post said. High hopes were revived at Yanga following the election of the former Taifa Stars Coach M solla and the former General Secretary of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) on M ay 5th this year. M solla was elected the chairman after beating his closest challenger Jonas Tiboroha by far in the general election conducted at Oysterbay Police Officers’ M ess in the city. M solla won by a landslide, pocketing 1,276 votes against only 6 0 votes garnered by Tiboroha, who formerly served as a Secretary General at the club. Also won by a landslide was M wakalebela, who garnered 1,206 votes beating J anneth M bene who claimed 6 1 votes, Titus Osoro with 17 votes, Stanley K evela (31) and Chota Chota (12). The officials who were elected members of the Executive Committee were Hamad Islam (1,206 votes), B ahati Faison M waseba (1,174 votes), Dominick Ikute (1,080 votes), K amugisha K alokola (1,072 votes), Arafat Haji (1,024 votes), Salum R uvila (9 76 votes), Saad K himji (78 votes) and R odgers Gumbo (776 votes). The new leaders will be in charge of one of the oldest clubs in the country for the next four years. The new leaders have a huge task to rescue the club from the current financial tatters to stability. The election was held after being postponed for over five times due to various reasons.