THE Head of Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), Dr Shoo, yesterday reconciled Dar es Salaam RC Paul Makonda with the Chagga community after the remarks he made in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday were interpreted out of context. The initiative was kick-started by the senior clergyman summoning the Chairman the main opposition party Chadema, Mr Freeman Mbowe and the RC to the altar for a truce. Mr Mbowe had earlier taken issue with utterances made by Mr Makonda in Dar es Salaam on May 7. During the farewell service for business and media mogul Dr Reginald Mengi, Mr Makonda triggered misgivings by publicly questioning the generosity of Chaggas, in relation to the kindness of the deceased towards the poor and the less privileged. Mr Makonda is quoted to have wondered how someone like Dr Mengi, who hailed from Kilimanjaro Region, could help the needy and persons with disabilities without any conditionalities. Shortly before winding up his eulogy for the deceased, Mr Mbowe took a swipe at Mr Makonda’s remarks. “This was a comment that I didn’t take too well; I’m not a hypocrite; we shouldn’t let ourselves be divided along ethnic lines, this is something that Dr Mengi would have condemned,” he remarked. Mr Mbowe dared the RC to prove his assertions beyond any reasonable doubt. Bishop Shoo first called Mr Makonda to the pulpit, and then Mr Mbowe to quell the matter. He asked Mr Makonda to apologise before the congregation about the allegations, and he complied. The youthful RC however had his reservations about the alleged remark and the allegations levelled against him by Mr Mbowe. “I might have been quoted out of context, my intention was not to disparage people hailing from Kilimanjaro Region,” he insisted. Mr Makonda maintained that he enjoyed a cordial relationship with Mr Mbowe, calling him a brother.Following Bishop Shoo’s intervention, the two shook hands amid cheers from the congregants. Earlier on, during his homily, Bishop Shoo expressed his displeasure over the perceived arrogance exhibited by youthful leaders. He scoffed at such leaders, urging them to refrain from such habits that meant to suppress and harass others. “We shouldn’t forget where we came from despite our positions in the society, always remain a humble servant to all,” preached the Bishop amid a resounding Amen. Delivering a condolence message, Chama Cha Mapinduzi Secretary General Dr Bashiru Ally said he had been upset by Mr Makonda’s approach. “I summoned Mr Makonda twice over his public conduct and the controversies, but I am glad that he’s somehow changing,” said the senior CCM leader.