TRAFIC police department has alerted motorists and other road users to cautiously use roads to avoid weather related accidents amid Tanzania Meteorological Agency’s (TMA) prediction of heavy rains in the country. The law enforcers have however embarked on special operation against reckless drivers to curb unnecessary accidents during this rainy season. According to TMA, the ongoing rains in different parts of the country are the continuation of the long rains whose onset was delayed by Tropical Cyclone Kenneth, which has influenced the weather pattern. The weather agency had earlier warned that although the tropical depression was overland over Mozambique and not expected to hit Tanzania, still it was not far from the Tanzanian boarder and continues influencing weather patterns in the country. Earlier, Cyclone Kenneth was forecasted to hit Tanzania’s southern regions near the border with Mozambique but it changed direction to further south towards the coast of Mozambique, sparing the southern regions of Tanzania. Head of Traffic Police Department Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP) Fortunatus Musilim said experience has showed that rainy seasons normally come with traffic accidents that cause deaths and injuries. “These accidents are due to reckless driving, slippery, fog, rain caused water holes, which cannot be easily spotted by drivers,” SACP Musilim noted. He cautioned motorists across the country to be vigilant while driving in rain and abide by traffic rules and regulations, apply defensive driving, respect traffic signs and critically assess the road situation. Commander Muslim noted that the traffic operation was currently underway to deal with motorists who breach traffic rules and regulations. He noted that stringent measures will be taken against errant drivers, including taking them to court or suspending their driving licences. The weather agency predicts that some areas, including Tanga, Coast, Dar es Salaam, Unguja and Pemba will experience short periods of heavy downpours while other areas will experience strong winds of 40 kilometres per hour and huge tides of two kilometres. “We expect more rains over the weekend in areas receiving long rains... it’s important for the public to take precautions,” TMA Manager, Forecasting Services Samuel Mbuya said. He noted that on Monday, Pemba weather forecast station measured 105.3 milimetres of rainfall and increased to 181.0 milimetres as of Tuesday. Mr Mbuya added that weather forecast station at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) measured 64.4 milimetres of rainfall on Monday but it increased on Tuesday to 79.0 milimetres while Zanzibar recorded 127 milimetres. He said based on the records, more rains are expected over the weekend in Dar es Salaam, Coast, Tanga, Zanzibar and Pemba. According to TMA Southern Highlands and Lake Zone regions will continue experiencing long rains and farmers are advised to continue making follo