EAST African Securities Regulatory Authorities (EASRA) has said harmonisation for both exchanges and central securities depositories (CSDs) in the region is expected to be completed in August. The regulators, under the umbrella EASRA, were told during the consultative committee meeting held in Arusha for two days about the milestones achieved paving way for harmonisation for all activities in the participating markets. The EASRA Chairman, Mr Paul Muthaura, said the ultimate benefits of the project would be realised when investors in the region have access to the full spectrum of listed securities across all regional markets. “[The outcome]… will undoubtedly increase liquidity at the respective exchanges,’’ Mr Muthaura said yesterday through a statement. Further, Mr Chairman reiterated the need to ramp up the oversight efforts by all the security market regulators in East African capital markets so as to cope with increased exposure that may be associated with the expanded market. In particular, he urged members to strengthen their risk based supervision tools as well as revamping crisis management frameworks at jurisdictional level to support the regional market soundness. The consultative committee also strongly endorsed the convening of the East Africa Capital Markets Day to be held in Kigali, Rwanda late this month. The Market Day will provide an important platform for all stakeholders to agree on common priorities and implementation options. Members also deliberated on the emerging opportunities from fintech and the use of regulatory sandboxes to accelerate innovation and to broaden the reach of securities markets. The joint communiqué was issued yesterday after the 48th EASRA consultative committee meeting that said policy and the bill for establishment of the East African Financial Services Commission (EAFSC) should be aligned with the region Treaty and the East African Monetary Union (EAMU). “The regional capital markets regulators, under the umbrella of EASRA emphasised on the need for the policy and the bill for establishment of EAFSC to be aligned with EAMU protocol for better functioning of the EAFSC,” the statement said. EASRA noted the opportunities for the EAFSC to take on key roles in coordinating adoption of regional standards as well as stimulating coordinated market development initiatives towards the establishment of an “East African Asset Class.” The committee said one of the critical tools that should be harnessed by the EAFSC is the use of existing council of ministers directives on security market standards that have served to guide convergence in 14 critical areas from licencing to Investor compensation and market conduct. “It was therefore reiterated that the legal position of council directives for these purposes should continue to be upheld to support the delivery of the treaty,” said the statement. In recognising the value proposition from the integration of regional markets, the regulators agreed that structures would need to be put in place to improve linkage and coordination of priorities with industry.