HASSAN Dilunga sq ueezed home a stoppagetime winner to earn Simb a a 1-0 win over JK T Tanzania in a thrilling Mainland Premier League match at the U huru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. An injury-time strike from substitute Dilunga preserved Patrick Aussems’ side ascendency to the top of the table as they closed the gap with league leaders Young Africans, who have accumulated 77 points from 33 outings. Simba have amassed 72 points from 28 matches. JKT placed in the 13th position with 39 points from 33 games, put up a big fight against the defending champions. The match looked almost certain to finish 0-0 after a hardworking display by ten men JKT Tanzania, until Emmanuel Okwi found Dilunga in space and the midfielder sent a low finish past outstanding goalkeeper, Abdulrahaman Mohamed to seal victory in the 90 + 6th minute of play. Despite having a typically large share of the possession in both halves, Simba struggled to break down JKT Tanzania’s organised defence and rarely troubled goalkeeper in goal in the first half. Simba had a shot on target just after the minute, when Okwi twisted and turned around a defender on the left flank before releasing a powerful shot that was collected by goalkeeper, Mohamed. In the 10th minute, skipper John Bocco slid in but failed to connect a diagonal shot from Okwi, with keeper well beaten. Coach Aussems made uncharacteristic changes after an hour mark, when he called off Bocco and match winner Dilunga was introduced as pressure was mounting for Simba. JKT Tanzania committed bodies behind the ball giving Simba strikers no space. Though there were few chances to speak of at either end during the opening 45 minutes, it was the JKT Tanzania who came closest to scoring as striker, Edward Songo drove past Yusuf Mlipili and came face to face with keeper, Deogratius Munishi but his shot came off the top post. Simba began to show a little more of their usual attacking fluidity in the second half creating hosts of scoring chances failed to make the most. In the 52nd minute, right wing back Zana Coulibaly cross was well met by Meddie Kagere, but the keeper was well positioned to collect the ball. Simba survived a real scare in the 55th minute, when Aziz Gilla had the better of Coulibaly before releasing a cross that found midfielder Nurdin Selemani but his header came off the top bar. Immediately thereafter, deadly striker, Kagere hit the post and in the 56th minute after he was set clear by Clatous Chama inside the box. The striker managed to beat the keeper but not the goal post. Then, Okwi who was roving all over the pitch with his dazzling dribbling skills also missed a clear scoring chance in the 76th minute, firing wide after he was set clear inside the box by substitute Rashid Juma, who came in the second half for James Kotei. In the 74th minute Anwar Kilimile was given marching orders by referee Elly Sasii for a second yellow card. With three minutes to go, Samuel Kamuntu could have killed the game for JKT Tanzania but his header hit the goal bar and cleared by defenders. Meanwhile, in another league fixture struggling Biashara United whipped Lipuli FC 3-0 at the Karume Stadium in Musoma. The victory saw United leapfrog Ruvu Shooting to 16th position of the log. Ruvu Shooting dropped to the last but one on 37 points. African Lyon sit bottom of the table with 22 points from 33 games.