THE Confederation of African Football (CAF) has released the tickets price for the three categories of the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) finals in Egypt. Excitement is already building up ahead of the continental’s biggest football showpiece which is scheduled to kick off in Egypt from June 21st to July 19th this year. According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Communication Officer, Clifford Ndimbo the price listing of the three categories was released by CAF few days after the organising committee announced to lower the category three ticket prices for matches involving hosts Egypt. According to the price listing, the group stages which will engage six groups of four teams each, games ticket prices for first class will be 29 US dollars, second class is 18 US dollars and third class will be 6 US dollars. CAF has also unveiled tickets price for quarterfinals stage as 35 US dollars for the first class tickets and 24 US dollars for second class, whereas the third class tickets will be available for 12 US dollars. For the semifinals stage, tickets will go for 59 US dollars for the first class, second class tickets will cost 29 US dollars and third class will be available for 18 US dollars. For the third winner playoff (Third place match ) tickets price will be 35 US dollars for first class, 24 US dollars for second and 12 US dollars for third class. Ndimbo said the final match tickets price will be 106 US dollars for first class, 44 US dollars for second and 24 US dollars for the third class. National team, ‘Taifa Stars’ which made it to the finals after 39-year lull is pooled in group C alongside Senegal, Kenya and Algeria. Stars will kick off their campaign against the continental top ranked side, Senegal on June 21st, before playing against neighbours Kenya on June 25th and will wind up the group stage campaign against Algeria on June 29th. Meanwhile, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has urged all fans wishing to travel to Egypt to watch the AFCON finals, to contact the federation before the tickets sales deadline. TFF has also unveiled that Taifa Stars will pitch residential camp in Cairo, Egypt, ahead of the finals. TFF Technical Director, Ammy Ninje said that Taifa Stars will travel to Cairo early next month after Mainland Premier League reaches its climax. “Immediately after the league curtains close down, selected Taifa Stars players will be given at least four days rest before kicking off preparation for the AFCON finals. Taifa Stars Head Coach, Emmanuel Amunike has already picked a 39 players provisional squad for the tournament and he is expected to name the final squad later this month. Stars will also take on Egypt's Pharaohs in a friendly encounter on June 13th at the Borg Al Arab Stadium in Alexandria. AFCON finals will be played at six different stadiums, the Cairo International, 30 June, El-Salam, Alexandria, Suez, and Ismailia.