SINGITA Grumeti is expected to open a new luxury lodge in the western corridor of Serengeti next month, thanks to the favourable investment environment in the country. Opening of the new lodge called Hillside Suite will have significant contribution to the development of tourism industry in the Western Serengeti, Mara Region. “In June 2019, Hillside Suite, set on the edge of a cliff, overlooking the endless plains of the Serengeti, opens to guests”, a latest press release from Singita Grumeti made available to the ‘Daily News’ early this week said. The lodge provides guests with access to the 350,000-acre private Singita Grumeti Reserve. “This double volume private suite is set away from Sasakwa Lodge and allows guests to revel in barefoot luxury of an infinitely romantic setting “, adds part of the statement. Sasakwa is among the lodges run by the conservation and eco-tourism company within the wildlife- rich concession area, bordering the world famous Serengeti National Park . Sasakwa Lodge has been named by Travel -Leisure Magazine of the United States ‘the best hotel in the world’ several times, making Tanzania’s tourism industry to shine globally. Besides Sasakwa, other Singita Grumeti lodges are Singita Faru Faru Lodge, Singita Sabora Tented Camp, Singita Explore and Singita Serengeti House and the remote Lamai triangle, which offers Singita Mara River Tented Camp. Singita Grumeti is seen as one of the leading foreign investors, with significant contribution to sustainable conservation activities and local development in Western Serengeti, part of the great Serengeti ecosystem in Mara Region. Thus by opening the new lodge, the investor is taking full advantage of the favourable investment environment to conduct and expand its business. The Hillside Suite is strategically positioned to enable guests view beautiful wild animals and sunrise. The suite is the ideal setting for a honeymoon safari in Tanzania, and guests can set the pace of their days by scheduling mealtimes and activities to their liking. “Given its sweeping views of the magnificent scenery and abundant game of the Serengeti, guests can immerse themselves in the surrounding wilderness and be enthralled by incredible sunrises and stargazed and the luxury of absolute silence,’’ the statement further states. Singita’s private reserve forms integral part of the Serengeti- Mara ecosystem and ensures Hillside Suite’s proximity to some of the most priced year-round game-viewing. The reserve’s wildlife and ecosystem are protected and managed by the dedicated team at the Grumeti Fund, Singita’s nonprofit conservation partner in Tanzania. Since its inception in 2002, the Grumeti Fund has invested funding, as well as the commitment and expertise of its team into supporting community partnership programmes. Grumeti Fund is currently supporting education for school girls in 21 villages adjacent IKorongo/ Grumeti Reserves in Serengeti and Bunda districts, having established a special girls’ empowerment programme. The programme aims to equip school girls with skills that will help them overcome challenges that interfere with their education development, so they may realize their education dreams. The Fund also offers scholarships to needy but bright male students in the villages, living among local people, who in the past relied on poaching as a source of livelihood. Consequently, many locals are now reportedly supporting conservation efforts in the area. Besides creating opportunities for hundreds of Tanzanians, the investor also spends substantial amounts of money on purchasing products produced by local entrepreneurs. Singita Grumeti also remains the largest source of income for Ikona Wildlife Management Area (WMA). Between 2014 and 2018 alone, the WMA received 1,529,289 US dollars (over 3.5 bn/-from the investor (Singita Grumeti) The WMA is supposed to spend large parts of the funds to finance community development projects in five villages that formed the WMA in 2007. The villages are Robanda, Natta, Makundusi, Park Nyigoti and Nyichoka. Each village receives equal share from the WMA which earns around 3 bn/- every year. Covering 243.2 square kilometers, the WMA also borders the Serengeti National Park and Ikorongo/ Grumeti Game Reserves, and is home to beautiful animals which includes elephant, giraffe, buffalos, zebras and wildebeest. “Out of the 243 square km of the WMA 149 square kilometres are under Singita Grumeti. This means that the largest part of the revenue that we earn, come from Singita Grumeti,” says Ikona WMA Secretary, Mr Yusufu Manyanda. After running a successful conservation tourism model in Tanzania, Singita is now expanding its footprint in Rwanda, where it will open a luxurious lodge in August this year. With a legacy exceeding 25 years of conservation in Africa, Singita stands tall as a conservation brand with a commitment to the sustainability of each property by continuing to build upon three core pillars. The pillars are biodiversity management, sustainable operations and community support.