YOUNG Africans Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera picked the first round scoreless draw against Simba as the most difficult match for his team of the just concluded season. Yanga lost 2-0 to Azam, in their final game of the campaign at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, but still finished second on the league pile with 86 points. Generally, it was just a schedule finishing match, since the outcome in no way could have altered the already known standings of the two teams on the table, apart from the points accumulated. Azam, with the victory, reached 75 points, to end on third but have a good chance to bring home a trophy, as they play debutants Lipuli FC in the finals of Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC), at Ilulu Stadium in Lindi on Saturday. A win by Azam will make them the first side to clinch the title twice since the past winners Simba, Yanga and Mtibwa Sugar have each bagged it once. However, speaking after the game, Zahera said on the day they played against Simba in the first round of the campaign, he was very scared. "I remember it was our fifth match of the league, which came after we recorded four wins. I was scared to face Simba on the day because my team was not physically fit, and I thought we could lose by a big number of goals," Zahera said. He said his team only had two weeks of pre-season preparations, and not the usual required five weeks recommended for teams to have as such, at that time, Simba were already in better shape than them. "We had difficult moments on the day as you saw. It was a tough match for me unlike with the rest encounters we have played," Zahera revealed. Commenting on the trend of the club strengthening ahead of the new league season, Zahera said the domestic players they approached to sign have all agreed, and are now finalising procedures to snatch eight foreign-based players. Asked to highlight on the squad members who will be shown an exit door at the club, the Congolese coach said 19 players have reached the end of their contract, and jokingly said he could totally dismantle the entire team. "I make decisions depending on how I wake up on that day. I can remove all the players," he said. He then seized the chance to salute his players for the job well done to finish second on the table. "I have told them (players) to move heads up because what they have accomplished is something I never expected, especially after going through difficult times throughout the season," Zahera said.