MINISTER for Energy, Dr Merdard Kalemani, has said there is a need for villagers to get electricity as over 48bn/- has been issued for the purpose in Dodoma Region. Dr Kalemani said this on Thursday during the inspection of Rural Energy Authority (REA III) undertaken by a number of contractors in Busi and Mauno villages. Speaking during the switching on of power at Busi Health Centre in Kondoa District, the minister urged villagers, who had not been connected to power, to utilise the opportunity. "We cannot be investing heavily in power projects only to be let down by people for choosing not to get connected to power," said Dr Kalemani. He advised the villagers to pay 27,000/- as fee for power connection in phases depending on one’s financial possibility so that all villagers finally got electricity. Dr Kalemani noted that under REA III projects all villages in Kondoa would be covered and none would be left behind. Taking into consideration the distance from Busi to Kondoa, the minister advised Tanesco to set up an office at village level so that villagers would fill in forms and pay the power connection fee. "You have vehicles and other facilities. Follow people, where they are especially those living in rural areas. This is what we are paid for," said Dr Kalemani. He used the occasion to direct Tanesco to disconnect power to all institutions with pending bills, but they must repay their bills on time. The minister called on the Kondoa District Council chairman and executive director to ensure they cleared their pending bills so that others could benefit as well. "Give them one month to clear their bills after which those with outstanding bills will be disconnected from the power supply," he insisted. As for Mauno Village, Dr Kalemani told the villagers that contractors were completing the setting up of electric poles and by mid-this month they would have power especially for their dispensary. For his part, Kondoa MP, who also doubles as Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji, said most villages in her constituency did not have power. She said lack of power had been denying her voters their participation in industrial economy initiatives since most of the small-scale or processing industries needed power.   