DIRECTOR of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Biswalo Mganga yesterday confirmed the arrest and interrogation of advocate Maneno Mbunda over his alleged involvement in the acquittal of Nelson Kangero. DPP Mganga told reporters here that Mbunda who is also a lawyer with Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) is being held for interrogation and is due to appear in court today, with nine other accused. The lawyer is accused of supporting the release of Kangero who was detained, charged with possession of government trophies worth over 100m/-. According to Mr Mganga, the TANAPA lawyer will also be arraigned in court for allegedly forging a charge sheet and burning a court file in his attempt to destroy evidence. “He (Mbunda) with an unnamed judge conspired to have the charge sheet forged to make it appear that the 15 pieces of elephant tusks were only 15m/- and eventually set the suspect free,” he alleged. The DPP told a battery of journalists that the TANAPA lawyer and his co-accused received 31.5m/- bribe to conceal the truth about the economic sabotage trial against Kangero. He further alleged that some state attorneys had a hand in the ultimate release of Kangero from custody. According to the DPP, Kangero was in December 12, 2017 arrested over possession of the government trophies. After entering the plea of not guilty at a Moshi court, the accused is said to have applied for bail. However, due to the severity of the matter, the DPP put an injunction to his bail request. “He was remanded at an Arusha prison as investigations continued until I learnt about his apparent release from the state attorney based here,” explained the DPP. The DPP’s clarification comes hot on the heels of claims made by a section of lawyers under the umbrella of Tanganyika Law Society (TLS) that the lawyer had been kidnapped by unknown individuals. Mbunda, who is also a TLS member is said to have gone missing since April 28 with activists and a section of lawyers taking to social media, calling for his immediate release. The DPP on the other hand called on the general public to refrain from peddling lies about the disappearance of people, categorically distancing the government from alleged disappearance of individuals.