THE South African government has apologised to its counterparts in the African continent following the recent spate of violent xenophobic attacks targeting African nationals in some parts of that country, the National Assembly was told yesterday. Tanzania’s Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, assured parliamentarians that despite the written apology from their counterparts in South Africa, there was no report of Tanzanian nationals being harmed in the recent attacks. “We (Tanzania and South Africa) share long brotherly relations. Through the letter channeled at our embassy there, their government expressed regrets that some of its nationals seem to have forgotten the role and support of other African countries in ending apartheid in their country,” he pointed. The minister gave the explanation when responding to a supplementary question by Tunduma MP Frank Mwakajoka (Chadema), who sought to know the safety of Tanzanians in South African amid the xenophobic attacks. Prof Kabudi further told the august House that it was the obligation of the government to ensure the safety of its citizens in South Africa and all other foreign countries. “We have also informed our people in South Africa to report to our embassy in case they fall into any trouble while there,” he remarked. Prof Kabudi also took the opportunity to congratulate the African National Congress (ANC) and President Cyril Ramaphosa for the victory of the just concluded elections in South Africa. Meanwhile, the Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga, has stressed the need to incorporate human rights and good governance in the curriculum as well as training of the same to members of security and defense forces. “Human rights and good governance should form part of our culture,” the seasoned diplomat pointed out when responding to a basic question by a Special Seats MP, Dr Immaculate Sware Semisi (CHADEMA), who had challenged the government to provide civic education for the citizens. Dr Mahiga informed the lawmakers that the United Nations (UN) usually conducts six-week training programmes on human rights and good governance to all peacekeepers posted to foreign missions, including those from Tanzania.