THE Arusha United, who were used to be the doyenne of football in the Northern Zone, has bid the region farewell, after it was sold to Misungwi, in Mwanza. Formerly owned by the National Service (JKT), in Oljoro, Arusha the team which also ran under the title of ‘Wana Utalii,’. It is officially now known as Gwambina Football Club and the team Manager, Jumanne Ahmed has confirmed the transaction saying the squad is now shifting base from Arusha moving to its new home in Misungwi District of Mwanza. The team will officially be launched on the 21st of June 2019 in Misungwi. The launching is going to create ripples in the soccer sea; because a new Gwambina Stadium is also in the works and the area will also be inaugurated together with its resident team. There will also be special hostels for players near the venue. “In the beginning, the team then owned by National Service Army, was known as JKT Oljoro FC but later on the Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC), Mrisho Gambo asked the army to let him manage the team, upon which it was renamed Arusha United,” said Ahmed. According to the team manager, Arusha United did well in the First Division League (FDL), though it did not excel to the premier and apparently, Gambo left the team when Arusha United was left with five matches to compete the league. The National Service then took back the team, helping it to complete the FDL fixture in Group B’ then as of now, the army is selling it off to another bidder, coincidentally, the Manyara Regional Commissioner (RC), Alexander Mnyeti is the one who has just bought it. Major Iddy Musila the Acting Commander for the 833 JKT Base at Oljoro Arusha has admitted that the National Service has sold the team to the Manyara Regional Commissioner (RC), Mnyeti. “Previously we gave the Arusha Regional Commissioner (RC), Mrisho Gambo the JKT Oljoro FC, after he expressed interest to manage the team, but after he neglected it amid the first division games, we took it back to rescue the squad,” explained Musila. He said that, after the FDL, a buyer with interest to own the team approached them and they decided to sell it off because the army no longer wants to manage many teams and that it will just handle youth squad in their respective bases.