YOUNG Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera has officially confirmed his skipper Ibrahim Ajibu will join DR Congo side TP Mazembe and not Simba SC as earlier speculated. Yanga recorded a thin 1-0 win over Mbeya City on Wednesday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to stay glued to the second place of the league table with only one game to play before ending the season. With the triumph, the Jangwani Street based team have now bagged 86 points from 37 games played this season. The 27-time champions will close the campaign by taking on third placed Azam FC at Uhuru Stadium in a match which has nothing to change for both clubs in terms of the current league positions they occupy respectively. Azam sit third on the table with 72 points after defeating Mtibwa Sugar 2-0 on Wednesday at Azam Complex hence if they win against Yanga, they will reach 75 points at the same position.  To wrap up the thrilling league season, all 20 teams will be in action in different parts of the country on May 28th with the big match on the day pitting Yanga and Azam. However, briefing members of the media after rioting Mbeya City, Zahera said TP Mazembe have been contacting him for the past three weeks over Ajibu and revealed that when all procedures are met, the player will cross the borders. “As you know, TP Mazembe is one of the biggest clubs in Africa and this is the opportunity for Ajib to showcase his skills at this great club,” he said. He added that Ajibu is a hardworking player who uses brain on the pitch and that if he will be able to shine there, it will be great for his career. “Here, Ajibu is a star that is why you write much about him but when he goes to TP Mazembe, nobody will write about him because he will be in a team with many good players as such, in order for him to win coverage, he must drum up his performance,” Zahera said. Asked whether his departure will have a negative impact on his team, the Congolese coach responded: “When Ajibu leaves, we will get another Ajibu.” In a related development, Zahera said he will add eight new blood to his existing squad for next season’s league assignments, six of them from outside the country while two are from Tanzania. “Before I leave for a holiday in Europe after the season, I will announce the new squad members of the club who will be there next term sacrificing for the team,” he said. Queried to mention players who will exit the club to give room for new faces, Zahera said he would rather be asked that question after playing their final league tie against Azam. Commenting on the encounter itself, Zahera lauded discipline shown by his charges saying it contributed to the victory. “No team can manage to win a football match if they play without discipline. We had many chances to score but used just few of them,” the coach said. He also revealed that seven of his team’s regular players are down with Malaria that is why he opted to use some of team B players in the encounter. On his part, Mbeya City coach Ramadhan Nsanzurwimo said they had a good game only that it was hard for them to hit the target. “We had a couple of scoring chances, missed all of them while our opponents used well the only chance they had to punish us,” he said. Mbeya City who are eighth on the table with 47 points will host Biashara United on the last day of the season.