TANZANIANS, led by President John Magufuli, have paid glowing tribute to media mogul and one-time Tanzania Standard Newspapers Limited (TSN) board Chair, Dr Reginald Mengi (75), following his death in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. The sad news broke yesterday morning, sending a cold shiver up the spine of several Tanzanian and members of the diplomatic corps. In his verified Twitter account, President Magufuli said: “I have been saddened by the passing of my friend, Dr Reginald Mengi. I will remember him for his contribution to the development of our nation and his vision in his book ‘I CAN, I WILL, I MUST.” The book, which was published last July, gives an autobiography chronicling his journey from a humble background in a small village in northern Tanzania to his emergence as one of the most successful businessmen in Tanzania and Africa. At its launch, the author told the audience that he decided to write and publish his autobiography after being prompted by his late son, Rodney Mutie Mengi, to tell his story and inspire others. In a posting on her twitter account, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan said she would remember the late Dr Mengi for his flexibility in supporting the community. A message from the Tanzania Embassy in China led by Ambassador Mbelwa Kairuki read: “A widely recognised champion for environment and economic empowerment, Mzee Mengi was a pioneer in advocating self-empowerment and caring for people with disability. At this time of sorrow, let us remember the remarkable contributions of a remarkable compatriot. RIP Mzee Mengi.” The UN Resident Coordinator in Tanzania, Mr Alvaro Rodriguez, twitted in his twitter account: “Tanzania is mourning his death. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. May his soul rest in peace.” A brief statement from the Embassy of the United States read: “The US Embassy was deeply saddened to learn about the passing of Reginald Mengi this morning. We have been privileged to work with Dr Mengi in the past, and his impact on Tanzania’s long term growth and development has been beyond significant. We offer our deepest sympathies and condolences to his family and friends and we join with Tanzanian people in mourning his loss.” Dr Hassan Abbas, the Chief government spokesperson and Director of Tanzania Information Services, wrote: “I have received with sadness the news about the passing of IPP Executive Chairman, Mzee Reginald Mengi. As he once said during his lifetime that a person who leaves a mark never dies, his ideas, philosophy, creativity and his devotion to serve others, especially the poor, will continue to live among us. R.I P Mzee Mengi.” A stream of tributes also came from politicians from the ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi as well as opposition. ACT Wazalendo leader and Kigoma Urban MP Zitto Kabwe sent his condolences to the family of the fallen business magnate through his twitter account, @ ZittoKabweRuyagwa. Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Environment and Union), Mr January Makamba, posted: “Heartfelt condolences to Jacqueline, Regina, Abdiel, the twins and the entire family of IPP. 