WITH an increase in government budget allocations to development projects, the Contractors’ Registration Board (CRB) will mount a countrywide special operation, starting tomorrow, to verify the capacity of contractors. CRB announced yesterday that it had noted with considerable concern complaints about contractors, whose performance did not meet the requirements of assigned projects. CRB Registrar, Rhoben Nkobi said verification would be one of its kind since the board was established. Usually CRB sends the questionnaire to contractors for filling in and assess if they still meet the criteria according to their grades. Mr Nkobi elaborated that currently there were 10,122 contractors countrywide clustered from grade I to grade VII.Grade I to grade III are regarded as first class contractors, whereas grade IV to VII are middle and lower class contractors. “Unlike previous reviews, we are now physically going to verify them. We will assess their facilities and human resources by conducting interviews,” he vowed, noting that the exercise would last until next November. He argued that the government had allocated development projects, mainly roads, water and health, those contractors were the ones directly involved in spending of the funds. “We want these government funds not to be lost to unqualiMinistryviolencefied contractors,” the registrar stated when briefing reporters in Dar es Salaam on the operation. The operation will start with verifying 418 contractors, who fall under the grades I, II and III before proceeding to others. CRB expects that after the operation its registry willremain with only clean contractors, who meet the criteria as per their grades and who will effectively undertake the projects. Some of the issues that can lead to deregistering a contractor include forging documents to win a tender and abandoning a project after being paid. On the other hand, a contractor risks being downgraded if the current capacity is less than previous one when they had been graded. Thus, the registrar appealed to contractors to cooperate with CRB officials during verification. Expounding on CRB mandate, Mr Nkobi said the board was the government’s institution entrusted to register all local and foreign contractors operating in the country. It also monitors the performance of contractors and builds their capacity.