THE German Federal Government has extended the support period to Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) to four years, during which it will construct a modern hospital in Dodoma Region. A statement issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the Presidential Communications Unit said that the federal government has extended the support period from 2021 to 2024. The German Ambassador to Tanzania, Dr Detlef Wäechter, accompanied by a delegation from German’s ministries of Defence and Foreign Affairs revealed that at the State House in Dar es Salaam after meeting President John Magufuli. Dr Wäechter said that apart from building the military hospital of “Level 4” status, his country through the German Armed Forces Technical Advisory Group (GAFTAG), will also provide more training and peace keeping equipment, continue to train more military medical doctors and provide medical equipment. Under the current partnership which ends next year , between March 2017 and March 2019, Germany constructed a zonal hospital in Monduli, Arusha region and equipped it with modern equipment. The zonal hospital will be used as a referral hospital with support from Lugalo Military Hospital in Dar es Salaam. The statement said the hospital wasconstructed at the cost of 5.9bn/- , of which 346.8m/- was provided by the Tanzanian government. Other support from Germany included the extension and upgrading of the Lugalo Military College of Medical Sciences, construction of military workshops in Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Shinyanga and Mwanza. The federal government also supported the construction of the emergency unit at Lugalo Military Hospital, construction of a students hostels at Bububu Zonal Hospital in Zanzibar and upgrading of zonal hospitals in Zanzibar, Mbeya, Mwanza and Tabora. President Magufuli expressed gratitude to Germany for strengthening its cooperation with Tanzania and assured Ambassador Wäechter that the support will benefit the citizens. The meeting was also attended by the Minister for Defence and National Service, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, Chief of Defence Forces General Venance Mabeyo and German First Secretary, Foreign Affairs, Malte Loknitz and GAFTAG country consultant Thomas Nalbach.