PRESIDENT John Magufuli is expected to inaugurate three mega projects whose construction has cost close to 270bn/-during his three day working tour of Rukwa region scheduled to officially start today. The mega projects on the list are roads constructed at tarmac level with the total length of 234.5 kilometers, whose rehabilitation cost is over 237bn/-, and the mega water project whose implementation cost over 31bn/- . On part of road projects, including a section of Sumbawanga–Laela-Nkana at tarmac level spanning 159.5 kilometers at a cost of over 137.8 bn/-, whose construction has been funded wholly by the governments of America through its Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) and Tanzania The Sumbawanga–Laela-Nkasi road was divided into two segments to speed up the construction, including Laela– Nkana section of the road covering 64.2 kilometers at a cost of over 76.1, and Sumbawanga-Laela section of road spanning 95.31 kilometers at a cost of 161.79 bn/-. The construction of Sumbawanga –Chala –Kanazi road to tarmac level covering 75 kilometers at a cost of more than 78.8 bn/-wholly funded by the government of Tanzania, and Jiangxi Geo- Engineering (Gropu) Corporation was contracted to carry out the project. During his press briefing held at his office here in the municipality, the Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo said that President Magufuli and his entourage will be received at Mkutano bordering Songwe and Rukwa Region respectively. “President Magufuli is scheduled to conclude his three days working tour in neighboring Songwe region, and will on the same day (Sunday) proceed to Rukwa region to start his three day tour,” added the RC. While in Sumbawanga District Council, President Magufuli will inaugurate a section of Laela–Nkana road and later address a public rally at the small town of Laela and then proceed to Sumbawanga town. On Monday, the president while in Sumbawanga municipality will inaugurate a 31 bn/-water project and a section of Sumbawanga– Chala –Kanazi road before addressing a public rally at Nelson Mandela Stadium. “The main gate of Nelson Mandela Stadium will remain open from 5:00 am to 11:00 am, after that no citizen will be allowed to enter,” added the RC. He said President Magufuli will conclude his three days working tour in Nkasi District, where he will inaugurate the Nkomolo Health Center, whose construction cost stood at 500m/-.