PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed the Tanzanian Embassy in Moscow to swiftly and efficiently facilitate an investment programme drive to enable Russian traders fulfil their ambition in Tanzania. The Prime Minister gave the directives on Thursday in Moscow after it was noted that there was good number of Russian investors harbouring interest to invest in the country. Prime Minister Majaliwa attended the two- day Russia- Africa Summit in Moscow at the invitation of Russian government under President Vladmir Putin. Mr Majaliwa represented President John Magufuli to the summit that involved 40 African heads of State and government. “Appointments with Russian investors have already been set, so I don’t want any delays or disappointments in fulfilling their intention,” he noted. He said the Russia-Africasummit that climaxed on October 24 aimed at creating better relations in various fields, especially economic. Speaking after the summits the Premier said Russia has clarified areas that are willing to cooperate with Africa for the benefit of both sides. Mr Majaliwa mentioned the areas that include the sale of equipment such as agricultural tractors, oil and gas industry as well as mining, construction of railways infrastructure in particular, the issues of education, especially the provision of training opportunities in the country. Majaliwa further said he held talks with leaders of more than eight companies in Russia and all of them agreed to visit Tanzania as early as possible. He said 18 businesspeople from Tanzania who participated in the summit did a good job of informing their Russian counterparts about a conducive environment for investment in particular. Earlier, speaking at the summit, he said at present Tanzania is appropriate for investment for those who want to invest in Africa as it is determined to boost its economy and reach middle income country by 2025 through the manufacturing sector. “Our country is endowed with abundant natural resources which are the tops raw materials for industries such as agricultural crops, forests, oceans, minerals and parks that are tourist destinations, " explained the Prime Minister. On October 25, 2019 Mr Majaliwa departed to the capital of Azerbaijan, where he will represent President John Magufuli at a two-day Non- Aligned Movement (NAM) summit. The 18t h forum of the 120-member group covering 5 per cent of the world's population is expected to discuss responses to contemporary challenges around the world. NAM was created in 1961. One of the key principles for the establishment and operation was its role as a forum for cooperation among its members. The organisation currently has 120 members, 17 observer-states and 10 international observer organisations. The NAM is the second biggest organisation after the United Nations.