THE Deputy Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Elias Kwandikwa, has assured transporters and Lake Zone regions of Mwanza, Geita, Kagera, Simiyu and Kigo- ma residents that Ushirom- bo-Lusahunga-Rusumo road repair was ongoing and would be completed within four months. “Rehabilitation of Ushi- rombo-Lusahunga-Rusumo road will ease transport woes being faced by trans- porters and the public us- ing the road. This will also attract more investors,” he said. Equally, Mr Kwandik- wa noted that Lusahunga- Nyakanazi and Nyakanazi- Rusumo road rehabilitation would cost about 5bn/-. Expounding, he said that negotiations between Tanzania and the African Development Bank (ADB) were in advanced stage to get funds for the reconstruc- tion of Isaka-Ushirombo, Ushirombo-Lusahunga and Lusahunga-Rusumo road. “The road’s life-span has expired after being in use for about 34 years. However, we are in advanced ne- gotiations with the African Development Bank (ADB) to get funds for the new road that will endure heavy traffic plying and carry- ing goods to neighbouring countries of Burundi, Rwan- da and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),” he said. He also stated that the government was keen and focused to link all border regions with tarmac roads to hasten people’s develop-ment, adding that in same spirit the State had set aside a budget to construct Busisi bridge and a new steamer to ease transport along Lake Victoria. In a related develop- ment, the Deputy Minister assured contractors under- taking various public works for the government that the authority was committed to pay them on time, because the money is available. In the breathe he called upon the public to pay taxes with further assurance that their money would be util- ised to speed up develop- ment for them. Explaining further, he said that the fifth phase gov- ernment under President John Magufuli was keen and improving their infrastruc- tures like roads and bridges especially along border regions including Kagera, adding: “This would attract investment opportunities in- cluding foreign markets and also ease transport of people and goods.”