TOWARDS the end of November this year, Tanzanians from different walks of life shall be taking part in the local elections that are expected to determine the future of our local communities. TGNP Mtandao, a feminist group based in Dar es Salaam held a Gender Festival in Dar es Salaam recently and insisted that these elections can strengthen women’s participation in society, and also ensure there is equal and just impact of local services and investment in society. This call of TGNP Mtandao invites all candidates to support feminist manifesto for local communities and to actively promote women’s rights. The call urges public representatives to strengthen local communities, challenge sexism and racism, promote equality and operate in a way that empowers and includes marginalised groups. In Tanzania today, women have a right to be safe in their homes, local communities and public spaces. Women can ensure a responsive service from local authorities to women experiencing crisis, escaping domestic violence and those vulnerable to homelessness. Local leaders can actively involve women and women’s groups in gender sensitive planning and monitoring of infrastructure and services that promote safer, accessible and inclusive public spaces for all. Women are leaders who have a real say and influence on the decisions made at local level to promote the sign up of all local authorities for equality between men and women. Women should ensure gender parity in decision-making in all structures at local level, and introduce a 50 per cent gender quota for local elections and address the barriers for women and other underrepresented groups in running for local office. Women have a role to increase inclusive public participation on matters of local importance and encourage meaningful participation by women in all decisions affecting their lives, and also support and resource the women’s community sector. As we approach the local elections next month, there is a need to end the gender pay gap, improve worklife balance and ensure security at work. Women ought to introduce in their agenda ethical and transparent procurement policies to ensure that local authorities only give contracts to companies with good employment and gender equality standards. Women should also advocate for local authorities in their role as employers to support family-friendly work practices for female and male employees and locally elected representatives, including provision of on-site childcare facilities. This is by ensuring that there is gender targets for employment and enterprise initiatives and gender equality training for staff in all Local Community Development Committee programmes. It is vital that local leaders guarantee women’s economic independence through investing in public services and prioritise investment in public housing and delivering on commitments to provide affordable housing to women. This is by ensuring the design and delivery of services and planning is guided and informed by the needs of women, and also strengthen local government functions and powers to promote local economies and real local democracy. Women also call on local authorities to distribute a range of free and quality sanitary products to women and especially school girls.