GLASS container manufacturers KIOO Ltd has emerged the winner of mineral products in the category of large industries in the Presidential Manufacturers Awards (PMAYA) for the year 2019. The trophy was presented by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa on behalf of President John Magufuli at a colorful ceremony which was held in Dar es Salaam. Speaking after receiving the trophy, the company's Training and Development Manager, Mr William Bongo, expressed delight over the triumph, adding that the management of KIOO Ltd was committed to working hard for the benefit of the people of Tanzania. He commended the government and Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) for introducing the awards as the initiative encourages industries to consistently improve production. "This is not our first time to win such a trophy; we have been doing well since the introduction of this award, and we promise to sustain this achievement by doing better in the coming years," promised Mr Bongo. "This award has motivated us, and so we promise to sustain the spirit of maintaining a good relationship with the government as well as other institutions," he said. He also promised that KIOO Ltd would do its best to make sure they become overall winner in the next year PMAYA competition, adding that he is confident they can make it. He went on adding that good relationship with employees and other institutions is among the factor that made them win the award adding that there is no any record of misunderstanding between employee and the company. Speaking about employment procedure, he said they have database for those who have applied for employment but didn't secured the chance adding that they call them when it happens that they need someone to join the company. "Example someone may apply for the job today but fail to get the chance but as we go on if it chances happens we call them one by one by considering the qualification we need... we call them for interview and eventually they secure a job," he said. Speaking about KIOO Ltd’s Corporate Social Responsibility, Mr Bongo said they work hand in hand with Temeke Municipality and others whenever the need arose and promised to continue working together in development activities in the district and the country at large. "We are there whenever they need us to participate in development activities; we don't hesitate to be part of the development process in the district because we feel proud to work with municipality authorities for the benefit of our own people," said Mr Bongo.