PRESIDENT John Magufuli on Saturday received the second Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner aircraft as part of revitalising the once ailing national carrier, Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL). Speaking after receiving the plane at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (Terminal One), Dr Magufuli urged African countries to effectively utilise their resources for the development of their nations. He said proper management of funds and hard work was the secret behind the success of most African countries. “African countries are not poor, they are endowed with various natural resources which can be used to attain development,” he explained. The arrival of the plane will make the ATCL’s fleet to seven new planes, which include 3 Bombardier Dash 8 Q-400s, two Airbus 220- 300 and two Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner. Before the arrival of theplane, Chief Secretary Dr John Kijazi and the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Dr Leonard Chamuriho, signed a leasing agreement. After receiving the plane, President Magufuli took the opportunity to urge ATCL to use it according to the leasing agreement. “These planes which the government has been procuring have been acquired by using public funds and not by ATCL. Make sure that you use the planes commercially to recover the taxpayer’s money,” he said. He added: “I have been told that since you commenced operations you have collected more than 14 million US dollars.” ATCL, the president said, should also work on several customers’ complaints, including plane delays, foul language ofsome workers and cheating clients. “You must recognise that those customers are your bosses as they bring you the money,” he empahsised. Yesterday’s arrival of the Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner increased the number of planes bought by the government to 7. The target is to have 14 planes by 2021/2022. The new plane, christened “Rubondo Island-Hapa Kazi Tu”, is the second delivery of Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner bought by the Tanzanian government to rejuvenate ATCL. With a capacity of carrying 262 passengers, the new plane is American long-haul, mid-size wide-body, twinengine jet airliner manufactured by Boeing Commercial Airplanes.