THE Ruse Learning Centre Technological Company has launched a new programme aiming at enabling their customers from different colleges to keep themselves abreast with the changes and advancement occurring in the sector of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Speaking to reporters in Dar es Salaam, the Company Marketing Manager, Dorice Luvanda said Ruse Learning Center came up with the new programme to help its members keep pace with the changes and advancement that occur in the sphere of ICT. She said given the fast pace at which ICT is evolving, people are being left behind, a factor that prompted the Centre to come up with the new programme. “The beneficiaries of this programme are people engaged in information technology matters, especially those who wish to move together with the ICT evolution. In this sense, any person, company, government or private institution is poised to benefit from the programme,” said Luvanda. She said the new programme will come into effect next month, adding that those who will join the programme will have an opportunity to freely study at least four other courses offered by the Centre. Luvanda added that the members will be allowed to use the company facilities free of charge and get deduction of the price on other courses that will be delivered by the company. “I would like to take this opportunity to warmly welcome all stakeholders and other beneficiaries to join us to go along with the country’s industrial philosophy,” she said. The Director of Ruse Learning Centre, Halima Iddi, on her side said that they conducted research on challenges facing technological sectors, and found out that lack of practical lessons has been a major problem. Idd added that advancement in technology means that a lot of things have changed, and it is not easy for a person to get back into college and update himself, that is why they will be there to offer refresher courses. Over 40 courses are delivered, including Optic fiber courses, Digital Microwave Transmission, Network driving testing and ICT Training.