THE UN Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) has introduced the quality infrastructure for trade facilitation electronically to identify technical gaps that government and industry should address in products. The Acting Director of Industrial Development Division of Ministry of Industry and Trade, Mr Leo Lyayuka, said the e-tool will help to highlight the challenges in quality infrastructure in products and enable industries to function well. He further said that the results of the tool are very useful as they reveal the needsbased actions required from the public and private sector to improve the competitiveness of the sectors and provide a clear direction towards the key areas to investigate further and feature in respective development plans. Mr Lyayuka made the remarks during a two-day workshop which was organized by UNIDO Tanzania. UNIDO country Representatives, Mr Stephen Kargbo, said the success of this initiative is the commitment of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to support industry to enter and compete in the international arena. “This workshop in Tanzania concludes the pilot phase of the tool and it will be prepared for its global release, the tool is scheduled to be rolled out systematically in 2020,” he said. He said the tool was developed with funding from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. UNIDO Project Manager, Mr Juan Pablo Davila, said the value added of this electronic tool is a consensus built strategic action between public and private sector available in the country to address and improve their export competitiveness by strengthening the quality infrastructure system in support of the Trade Facilitation Agreement. The toolkit aimed at rapidly identifying gaps in the National Quality Infrastructure (NQIS) that affect the sound implementation of the provisions of the Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) which are designed to expedite trade procedures including the movement, release and clearance of goods. He said the participants will work together to identify gaps from the government capacities areas such as food safety and public health, sanitary and phytosanitary measure, national laboratories as well as industrial capacities of food business operators.