THE last group of the national senior team, Taifa Stars left for Rwanda on Friday ahead of their Monday international friendly game against Rwanda ‘Amavubi at the Kigali Stadium. Stars players under the interim head coach, Etienne Ndayiragije left confidently ahead of the October 14th game against the Amavubi which will be utilised as part of their drill for African Nations Championships (CHAN), return leg match against Sudan. The game between Stars and Amavubi, which is vital for the both sides as it will help players to fine tune their next 2020 CHAN assignments, whereby Rwanda will face Ethiopia in the final round of the qualifiers. Tanzania will go into the October 14 game against Rwanda while their position in the CHAN qualifiers is still volatile after losing 1-0 at home during the first leg match in Dar es Salaam. Rwanda who won 1-0 away in Ethiopia have at least a breathing space as they need to draw at home to qualify for CHAN 2020 finals while Stars need to win against Sudan to book their ticket into the CHAN finals for the second time. According to Stars technical bench, all players summoned for the game against Rwanda and Sudan are in high morale ahead of the both games and looking forward to execute their job well to ensure Tanzania wins the ticket to play in 2020 CHAN finals in Cameroon. The first batch of Stars players comprising 10 players left on Thursday under the tutelage of assistant coach, Juma Mgunda and the second and last one comprising 18 player jet off yesterday to Kigali. According to report from team, Kelvin Yondani and Shomari Kapombe who failed to report at the camp due to injuries have been left, however the technical bench has disclosed that their gaps have been well filled. Apart from Kapombe and Kelvin Yondani, the team will also miss the services of skipper Mbwana Samatta who is currently with the Belgian topflight league side KRC Genk. The Tanzanian delegation composed of 38 members arrived in two batches on Thursday night and Friday morning. They are currently accommodated at Villa Portofino Hotel in Nyarutarama. Speaking about the team’s preparedness, Matola said the preparations have been good and the technical bench is confident of getting good results in the two coming assignments. Meanwhile Rwanda head coach, Vincent Mashami yesterday summoned 27 players for the Amavubi squad that will face Stars and report unveiled that midfielders Yannick Mukunzi and Djihad Bizimana will not be available for their team. Among the players include two foreign-based players Kagere Medie, who features for Simba SC and Tuyisenge Jacques from Atletico de Luanda of Angola. Also former Simba and Young Africans dazzling midfielder Haruna Niyonzima who is currently featuring with AS Kigali, has been included in the list for the game against Tanzania and Ethiopia respectively. The two nations have met 10 times since 2010 and Tanzania have won five times and Rwanda thrice and the they have drawn two times.