AS Russia-Africa summit ended Thursday, Russia and African leaders confirmed their commitment to intensify economic, trade and security cooperation. Russian President Vladimir Putin and top officials from over 40 African countries explored areas of further cooperation during the two-day event in the Sochi city with the Russia-Africa Economic Forum at the same time. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa represented President John Magufuli at the meeting. President Putin said Russia prioritises strong relations with African countries and organisations, proposing Russia-Africa meetings at the level of heads of state in three-year intervals and political consultations of foreign ministers, annually. At the plenary session of the economic forum, President Putin called on Russia and Africa to double bilateral trade to over 40 billion US dollars in the next four to five years. He further said integrationprocesses developing in Africa represent additional opportunities for cooperation between Russia and Africa, assuring that Russia will do its utmost to link African free trade zones with the Eurasian Economic Union through expansion of trade missions and support provision to businesses. “African countries attract more attention from Russian businesses and Moscow will support Russian companies that plan to increase their presence in the continent,” said Mr Putin. He added, “The development of close business ties meets our common interests, contributes to the sustainable growth of all our states, helps to improve the quality of people’s lives and solves numerous social problems.” On security, President Putin said Russia as a permanent member of the UN Security Council will continue to work to strengthen peace and stability in Africa and ensure regional security. He said Russia attaches importance to creating joint efforts against terrorism and extremism besides plan to intensify contacts and exchanges with African counterparts in law enforcement and other related areas. The Russian president listed the development assistance his country was offering Africa as trade preferences, co-operation within international structures, for example, the World Food Programme, the International Civil Defence Organisation and the World Health Organisation (WHO) and support in easing the debt burden of African countries. “To date, the total amount of write-offs exceeds 20-billion US dollars; the debts forgiven were being used to fund economic growth projects.” He supposed that Russia was helping Africa fight dangerous infectious diseases, in particular through a Russian research centre in Guinea. Putin said African countries were attracting more and more attention from Russian business, largely because Africa was becoming one of the centres of global economic growth with a combined $29-trillion GDP forecast by 2050. Director-General of Russia’s state-run arms exporter, Mr Alexander Mikheev said Russia plans to deliver 4 billion dollars’ worth of weapons to Africa in 2019. “Russia is implementing contracts on military equipment deliveries to 20 African countries, including Uganda, Rwanda, Mozambique and Angola,” he remarked. Professor at St. Petersburg State University, Igor Gerasimov said in the 1990s, many ties with African countries were lost. “Now we are witnessing a process of restoring them,” he said. Russia is presenting the summit as a return to Africa, after a long relative absence following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. In the Soviet era, Russia gave many African countries, substantial military, financial and political support in fighting colonialism and apartheid.