NATIONAL Assembly Speaker Job Ndugai wants to see East African Community (EAC) partner states attain the envisioned single currency regime. Mr Ndugai was optimistic that harmonisation of monetary policy frameworks, exchange rate policies, rules and practices governing bank supervision and payment systems within the EAC would help bring about economic stability in the bloc. “Apart from sparing East Africans the hustle of exchanging currencies whenever traversing the bloc, the regime will also guarantee the community a stronger economy,” said Mr Ndugai after he visited his East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) counterpart Martin Ngoga yesterday. Mr Ndugai, who attended a Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians (CWP) sensitisation workshop on Sunday, urged the regional legislative arm to fast track the process of attaining the East African Monetary Union (EAMU) Protocol. “We would love to see our people sharing the same currency as it was the case in the past,” he explained. EAC has set 2024 as the deadline for attaining the single currency regime. The Protocol for the establishment of EAMU was signed in November 2013 by the EAC member states. Under the Protocol, partner states reached a consensus on the creation of key institutions and for member states to attain and maintain four primary convergence criteria for at least three years before joining the bloc’s planned single currency. The institutions include the East African Financial Services Commission, East African Monetary Institute, East African Statistics Bureau and the East African Surveillance, Compliance and Enforcement Commission. Among other things, the single currency regime is expected to lower the cost of trade transactions among partner states and boost imports and exports within the region. Mr Ndugai commended the regional legislative organ for its role in the regional integration. In his rejoinder, Mr Ngoga assured Mr Ndugai that the roadmap towards the single currency regime was going according to plan. According to Mr Ngoga, EALA has enacted some Bills for the regime. “We are at a good stage at the moment. Once the Monetary Union is in place, we will definitely achieve a political federation,” he assured. He singled out the endorsement of the EAC Statistics Bill as a crucial step towards the regime, adding that it would provide for a framework for the harmonised collection of economic data in the member states. In the run-up to achieving the single currency, the EAC Partner States aim at harmonising monetary and fiscal policies, financial, payment and settlement systems, financial accounting and reporting practices, policies and standards on statistical information and establishing East African Central Bank. Mr Ngoga, on the other hand, commended Tanzania for honouring its financial obligations to the EAC Secretariat. He said the East African nation was complying with annual payments despite some delays in remitting them.