IT is now official: President Magufuli has shifted to the Chamwino State House in Dodoma City from the State House in Dar es Salaam overlooking the Indian Ocean. “I pledge that I shall fulfill all the promises by the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, including his quest to relocate all government activities from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma at Chamwino,” the president announced here yesterday.“Although construction activities are still at final stages here, I have already shifted from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma.’’ The president spoke just a few minutes after registering himself for the much-awaited civic polls scheduled for November 24 this year. Dressed in simple attire, the president arrived at Chamwino village at 12:00 noon accompanied by his wife Janeth from Katavi Region after launching Air Tanzania Company Limited’s Dar es Salaam-Mpanda route yesterday morning. Dr Magufuli and his wife registered themselves at Sokoine Centre at Chamwino village and later addressed residents of the area, assuring them of full support on problems facing them. “I was in Katavi Region but I decided to come and register myself at home because I have already moved here…this is the place you will always be seeing me and my wife,’’ he said. It was all jubilation for Chamwino villagers yesterday after seeing the president who later made a party outside the State House by gave the village chairman 1m/-so that villagers can have lunch together as neighbours. The president later invited Dodoma-based journalists for his luncheon at State House as part of welcoming them to his new residence. The first high-ranking government official to relocate to Dodoma was the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa who officially moved to the country’s administrative capital in September 2016, followed by the Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan in December 2017. But for various reasons, including the ongoing construction at Chamwino State House, Dr Magufuli pushed back the plan, opting to take it slowly. However, he insisted on several occasions that he would complete the move before 2020. Speaking at Chamwino village, Mzee Enock Mayau who is the local leader, requested the Head of State to work on the problems facing them--especially water shortage. The president promised to help them. “You are my neighbours, therefore, we will solve all these problems together and we will be drinking water from the same tap,” he promised. In firming the preamble for all government activities to move from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma on April 13, 2019, the president unveiled 10 buildings which are currently used as offices for ministries and departments. He also unveiled 41 houses for civil servants working at the Chamwino State House. The completion of the houses was part of the final touches in the complete shift of the capital city from Dar es Salaam.