TANZANIA’S Taifa Stars are set to upset hosts Rwanda’s Amavubi in an international f riend ly match k ick ing off tod ay at Kigali Stad ium in Rwanda. The Tanzanian delegation of 38 members arrived in Rwanda in two batches on Thursday night and early Friday, and managed to do a couple of training sessions ahead of the hot duel. The match, despite being friendly, has a big impact on the FIFA rankings since it is wholly blessed by the international football governing body(FIFA) thereby any results to be stamped will see Stars either climbing up or dropping in the FIFA world rankings. In reference from the latest FIFA ranking table African Z one (September 2019), Tanzania is ranked 38th while they stand at 135th slot in the world. On the same case, the country’s flag bearers use the clash as part of commemorating the 20th anniversary of the death of the founding father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere which is marked annually on October 14th. Moreover, in today’s encounter, Stars will have a chance to weigh up themselves ahead of the upcoming Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) away tie against Sudan slated on Friday, October 18th. It will be a must win mission for the Etienne Ndayiragije men after succumbing to a painful 1-0 loss in the first leg match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam last month. A 61st-minute strike by Yassir Mohamed was enough to undo Stars at their backyard, hence they will be forced to shrug it off this on Friday and squeeze their way through to Cameroon where CHAN finals will be staged. On the other hand, Rwanda uses the match as a preparation platform prior to their crucial CHAN game versus Ethiopia next week. Rwanda will go into the game with a slight advantage after winning the two sides’ first-leg 1-0 away in Ethiopia last month. CHAN is strictly designed for players who feature in their respective domestic leagues. Mashami’s men will host the Walias of Ethiopia at the same venue on October 19th, with a draw enough to see Rwanda qualify to the CHAN for a third successive time and fourth overall. The interesting part though in today’s encounter is to see how Stars defending wall will be able to silence the current leading scorer of the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) Meddie Kagere who will be navigating his national team striking department. Also, Tanzanians will be eager to see how the young ‘hitman’ Kelvin John (Mbape) will fit if given a chance to play bearing in mind that skipper Mbwana Samatta failed to link up with the squad as he is reportedly going through recovery period. Kelvin has lately been a household name after emerging the top goal scorer (7) in the just ended CECAFA U-20 Challenge Cup in Uganda. The last time the two sides met in December 2017, Rwanda beat Tanzania 2-1 during the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup match. Meanwhile, Rwanda’s New Times reported that the Amavubi interim Head Coach Vincent Mashami, summoned 27 players to face Stars with only two foreign-based players who are Meddie Kagere (Simba SC) and Jacques Tuyisenge (Atletico de Luanda-Angola) while the rest trade in the Rwanda Premier League.