TTCL Corporation has signed 13.8bn/-worth agreement with Burundi Backbone System (BBS) to provide fiber optic connectivity that will connect Burundi with the world through SEACOM and EASY international undersea cable systems. The state owned telecom company TTCL, which is managing and operating Tanzania’s National ICT Broadband Backbone (NICTBB) will connect Burundi through its Kabanga and Manyovu centres. The Director General with TTCL Corporation Mr Waziri Kindamba said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the 10- year communication agreement will start effectively after signing the business deal. “With the agreement, TTCL will provide data and high speed internet, storing data at the National Internet Data Center, exchange of experts to empower them in the communication sector, exchange of corporate customers operating businesses in both countries like CRDB Bank,” he said. He added, this is an initial agreement whose value is set to change when TTCL upgrade its services from 2.5 to 10 billions of bits per second. The communication services will benefit people of both countries by increasing efficiency in other sectors of the economy. The broadband backbone is providing economic opportunities to both urban and rural communities. Fiber optic cable network will enable operators to expand their outreach to the remotest areas. The BBS Chief Executive Officer Mr Elie Ntihagowumwe said the signing of the communication agreement means a lot to the people of Burundi as well as the relation of the two countries. “The fiber optic connectivity will definitely improve communication services in Burundi by contributing to improved living standards and drive up digital economy,” he said. The latest Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) shows TTCL gaining the most in the six months period ending June this year after registering new 438,307 customers into its TPesa, to increase its market share from 0.13 per cent with 30,394 customers in December 2018 to 2.0 per cent with 468,701.