ERNEST Sengeu put up a high spirited show to claim the Ernest Galinoma Memorial 'Swing and Sing fiddle’ golf title in a 18- hole tournament staged at TPDF Lugalo course in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. Sengeu carded an impressive two-under par 70 nett to overcome stiff challenge from over 90 pursuers who were engaged in a hunt for the tournament’s diadem. The winners of the tournament were awarded prizes by Edmund Mndolwa who was the chief Guest on behalf of the Lugalo club founder General (rtd) George Waitara. The tournament was jointly organised by the club and Galinoma family to honour the former club chairman, late Ernest Galinoma. Youthful Isiaka Daudi won the Division A title after posting 74 nett while Peter Fiwa who netted 77 strokes claimed the runner up title. The gross winner title went to Prosper Emanuel who carded 87 strokes. Division B title went to Samweli Kileo who penned an impressive 71 nett but, he had to rely on countback to beat Tedy Kalinga who also carded 71 nett. Kiki Ayunga won the Division C title with 72 nett, as second- placed H. Gweno netted 73 strokes. Senior category title went to Julius Mbilinyi who carded 77 nett, while the category’s runner was the Chief Guest, Mndolwa who carded 78 nett. Stephanie Sayore won senior ladies prize after posting 99. It was a good weekend to Rehema Athumani who won the ladies category after netting 77 strokes to beat her closest challenger Amanda Mulula by a shot. The longest drive prize for men and ladies went to Terence Mwakaliku and Hadija Suleimani respectively as Amanda Mulula emerged nearest to the pin winner. The junior winner’s prize went to Karimu Rashidi who netted 69 strokes, Rama Yassini who carded 74 nett was the runner up. Galinoma was among the popular members of Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club before joining TPDF Lugalo in the late 2000s. Galinoma passed away at Muhimbili Referral Hospital in the city on April 17th in 2016 and was laid to rest at Kalenga Village in Iringa. He was one of the Lugalo Club founder members and supporters of the development of golf and his good foundation helped the club to remain at right direction even under the current Chairman Michael Luwongo. Alexander Galinoma, the son of the late Galinoma, who follows his father foot-step after also started playing the game thanks all participants and club for making the event a success.