SENIOR officials from the Southern African Development Community (SADC) are involved in a lively debate on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Issues regarding CITES have kept resurfacing in the meeting of officials at the levels of permanent secretaries in the fields of environment, natural resources and tourism, with some differing on some items within the Protocol. While CITES provides legal mechanisms for the sustainable international sale of raw ivory and other valuable wildlife commodities, some of the 16 countries' representatives feel that some sections of the Protocol were incorporated contrary to the right procedures of the protocol itself, reliable sources have revealed. CITES is an international agreement between governments, with the objective of ensuring that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. It was drafted as a result of a resolution adopted in 1963 at a meeting of members of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The text of the Convention was finally agreed at a meeting of representatives of 80 countries in Washington, D.C., the United States of America, on 3 March 1973, and entered into force on 1 July 1975. In order to effectively protect wildlife, SADC developed the Protocol on Wildlife Conservation and Law Enforcement in 1999. The Protocol emphasizes the need for regionally-agreed approaches to conservation, management and the enforcement of illegal uses of wildlife. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Professor Adolf Mkenda, said the issue regarding endangered species of wild fauna and flora was a critical issue and delegates were debating whether some barriers in the CITES Protocol were worth remaining in the protocol or be detached. Professor Mkenda, who is the Chairman of the SADC Committee of senior officials responsible for environment, natural resources and tourism said such a debate was to be expected. However, he asserted that Tanzania as Chair was careful to drive the deliberations well and push to see to it that consensus was arrived at amicably as a bloc in all important issues and work on them as one. "There is a discussion regarding endangered species according to the CITES Agreement. In some SADC countries, there are debates over the restrictions on the CITES Protocol, on whether they should remain or removed ... generally Tanzania as we Chair through the Honorable President want to ensure that we get consensus on right priorities," said Professor Mkenda. Tanzania is one of 16 SADC partner states that implement the Protocol on Wildlife Conservation and Law Enforcement. The Protocol also promotes national and regional capacity building and the facilitation of communitybased wildlife management.