MBEYA City Head Coach, Juma Mwambusi has admitted that the 4-1 loss they suffered from Kagera Sugar on Thursday was painful for the entire club. It was the second back to back slump by Mbeya City at their home venue Sokoine Stadium after accepting a 2-0 defeat from Biashara United in the previous league assignment. Misery continues to pile up on Mwambusi who was the mastermind behind the team’s promotion into the top flight league back in 2013 and did well in their debut season under his tutelage. In 2015, Mwambusi joined then champions Young Africans where he traded as Assistant Coach to Hans Van Pluijm before the pair moved to Azam FC where they were fired mid-way last season. However, after rejoining his former club in June this year, Mwambusi has had a rough ride so far in the league after a winless start of the season in six matches played, drawing four and losing two to pocket four points. They sit on the 19th slot on the league table hence they need to bounce back immediately to escape relegation at the end of the campaign. Reacting after the loss, Mwambusi disclosed that it was a big blow to the whole club and have to do well in next matches. “It’s a big loss to me, the club and the entire Mbeya Region. Mbeya City is a big name and club hence to lose with this big goal margin, it is a big embarrassment,” he said. His counterpart for Kagera Sugar’s Mecky Mexime hailed his players for the vital away victory and apologised to Mwambusi for his side’s loss. “We had a good game and scored quick goals which made us to be comfortable on the ball. It is a big plus for us,” he narrated. On his part, Mbeya City defender and captain Hassan Mwasapili said he is confident that they will soon get back to winning ways. “We have lost and we know that our fans are disappointed but the league continues and this is not the end of us. Still, many games are coming hence as players, we demand fans support in all our next matches though it is painful to go down at own soil,” said him. The triumph has placed Kagera Sugar on second place with 13 points after seven matches, only two points adrift leaders Simba who have 15 points from five encounters.