THE booming aviation industry cannot go unmonitored especially at this point in time when profit maximization attracts business attention more than other factors, like basic rights of the aviation service consumers, environmental safety and security measures. Aviation which is basically translated as all matters relating to air transportation of people and goods both; international and domestic flights is growing and will continue to grow after the government’s deliberate measures of boosting it through heavy investment. The measures ranges from upgrading and constructing new airstrips and airports and related enabling infrastructure, like setting up surveillance radar systems to ensure safety and fair competition among its players. The growth of this potential economic sector is aggravated by the efforts of revamping the country’s flag bearer, air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) and the modernized infrastructures in the country which plays a connection role within East and Southern African countries. To make sure that the air transportation consumers’ interests are safeguarded, the Tanzania Civil Aviation Consumers Consultative Council (TCAA CCC) is at the forefront of educating passengers and citizens on their rights and obligation. At the same time, the Council liaises with prospective air transport service providers on how to enhance consumer welfare within the industry. TCAA CCC’s acting Executive Secretary Ms Debora Mligo, says that it is of much interest that there is a need of molding future players who will prioritize consumer interests instead of profit generation and decent jobs only. “In the past, aviation sector was entirely operated by the government which did not only work towards making profit but rather ensuring that all consumer interests are akin to the provided services. Nowadays, things have changed a bit, with private companies which capitalize on profit making. ” Ms Mligo adds that TCAA CCC has realized that there are very few qualified Tanzanian professionals to run this growing air transportation sector and therefore some efforts were to be effected to boost their number. Recently, the Minister for Works Transport and Communication Isack Kamwelwe said that there were around 349 pilots and 182 aircraft engineers in the country. Tanzania is a well-known tourist destination, therefore, there is a big potential for more Tanzanians to join and grow up with the air transportation that requires more professional qualified and ethical personnel. Bearing in mind the opportunities in the sector open to young people, in cooperation with other stakeholders, the Council decided to embark on educating young consumers through student clubs in secondary schools. The main objectives of establishing the clubs is to motivate the youth to opt for science subjects which are, key to tap into air transport opportunities such as air craft engineering, pilots, air traffic controllers etc. “It is our duty to support the government efforts of ensuring more Tanzanians seize available opportunities in line with the growth of the aviation sector. Our duty is not to simply wait for consumers’ rights violation, but to be proactive in educating consumers as well as prospective players on business ethics through different channels.” To achieve this, the active Executive Secretary notes that TCAA CCC has already established students clubs in different secondary schools in Dar es Salaam, Mtwara, Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions. Where each club has between 250 to 300 students. “Our aim is to reach out all regions with airports and air strips in the country. The rationale is to ensure that, students can learn the theory part of it and be able to visit the airport facilities where they can learn aircraft operations. Ms Mligo says further that to attain the intended goal, the students who are the members of the TCAA CCC students clubs are put under a trained club-caretaker who is a teacher at that respective school appointed for that purpose by the school’s administration. Students who are members to the aviation clubs are exposed to the rights and responsibilities of the aviation service providers and that of the customers and the methods of lodging claim in case of infringement. TCAA CCC believes in national values of respecting rights of the people which its foundation were laid by the founding father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and as it is directly adapted by current President John Magufuli who insists on equality, protects rights and ensures as he strives to attainment of the lowest possible priced air transportation in the country and the state-of-art-facilities like the airports and security means. Speaking at the TCAA CCC student clubs inauguration ceremony in Dar es Salaam, the Director General of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) Mr Hamza Johari made it clear that the growth of the aviation sector opens more opportunities to pilots, aircraft maintenance engineers, communication and surveillance experts. He noted that young people who study hard stand better chances to utilize these opportunities or else shall fall in the hands of foreigners. He urged the Council, through its clubs programme, to motivate more students to opt for science subjects. Mr Johari made revelation that, TCAA maintains and operates a special fund which sponsors students who wish and qualify for studies in different aviation colleges but in one way or the other cannot afford the costs. He urged students to study hard, and opt for science subject, so that they may be beneficiaries of that fund where a student’s parent cannot afford to pay for their course which are very expensive when compared to other course at the same university or college. He added that more opportunity awaits the upcoming youths as the government’s efforts of investing in the aviation sector and the country’s geographical location may later see Tanzania being the regional hub and therefore, young people were to be prepared in advance to take advantage of same. In TCAA CCC students clubs, which are set to be established to all regions with airport and airstrips countrywide, students are equipped with such knowledge and skills of the responsibilities of customers like getting to the airport on time after having a ticket, baggage allowances or charges in case of excess weight and methods of reporting irregularities and what to do in case of delay of flights. Others are the prohibited items like liquids when boarding flights where the general public ought to know the right ways of transporting them than ending into being confiscated. The clubs are as well regarded by TCAA CCC as a best channel of educating the general public on rights and responsibilities to other aviation service users in the country and eventually the feedback gained may be used by policy makers in the whole process of making laws and regulation which suits better the current changes of economy, science and technology in the globalized world.