TANZANIA Revenue Authority (TRA) in Tarime collected 4.7 bn/-last month, attributing the success to tax compliance, curbing tax evasion and improving the relationship between taxpayers and tax administrations. Speaking yesterday at the Tanzania-Kenya border, TRA Mara Regional Assistant Manager, Aden Mwakalobo said the collection depicted the performance rate of 79 per cent as the initial target was to collect 5.935b/- . Moreover, the manager shed some light on alternative measures to improve tax collection at the Sirari border post, including continuous improved joint patrols along the porous border in collaboration with other security agencies, including the police, Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) and Tanzania Bureau of Standards. ''TRA looks forward to tackle potential challenges that may be faced by tax administrators in the future at the border post, including the tendency by some untrustworthy traders who smuggle illicit goods by using unofficial entries scattered here,'' he said. Mr Mwakalobo noted that he had directed TRA staff stationed at the Sirari entry point to quickly adapt to the directions by the fifth phase government under the leadership of President John Magufuli, such as gathering tax information, improving the collection of taxes and encouraging voluntary tax compliance. ''Customs and other border control agencies operating here face challenges, including effective facilitation of legitimate and legal trade and flows of goods, services, people and capital and not otherwise,” he noted. He revealed that halting the flow of illicit commodities, services and the apprehension and prosecution of individuals facilitating illicit trade was the only reliable way of ensuring that TRA here attains the goal of collections and surpassing targets every month. He said TRA had also managed to place a strong speed boat in Lake Victoria to combat illegal traders operating there, who use the opportunity to ferry into the country sub-standard commodities that harm local manufacturers. The tax collection mandate, he said, was meant to avoid several operational inefficiencies within the supply chains and deploying enforcing officers on the ground. He said this led to increased costs, delivery disruption, time delays, interruptions in the smooth flow of products and services, congestion and longer cycle times, leading to businesses frustration. The manager noted that officials here have been warned against widespread corruption and weak accountability that can make the Sirari border porous and difficult to control. This, he said, fuels various forms of illegal activities, such as human and drug trafficking, weapon smuggling, organized crime and terrorism that is not healthy to national security.