CONTRACTORS implementing the first round of Rural Electrification Project Phase Three have been instructed to use read boards gadgets, popularly known as Umeme Tayari (UMETA) in electrical installations which is an alternative of wiring. The directive was issued here yesterday by the Chairman of the technical committee of the Rural Energy Board (REB), Eng. Styden Rwebangira during a wrap up meeting that brought together contractors, Tanesco managers, and Rural Energy Authority (REA) officials in Tanga Region after inspection of the electrification projects in the region. He said contractors must ensure that they install read boards, popularly known as UMETA, with free 250 units which have been guaranteed by the government for residents who do not have electricity wiring in their houses but are in need of energy. Eng. Rwebangira was impressed by the implementation of the project in the region, but called for speed up of distribution of the gadgets. He said despite the fact that contractors are running short of installation and connection wires that are needed for the rural electrification infrastructure; he will submit the challenge to the responsible authorities for further actions. Eng. Rwebangira said the Minister for Energy is lined up to meet with the suppliers and manufacturers of the electrical wiring next Tuesday, whereas the challenge will be addressed so that they get the equipment for timely completion of the projects. He insisted on the timely completion of the Rural Electrification Project Phase Three, round one as planned by December 31, 2019, to give room for round two of the project to take off in January 2020. He warned contractors who will not complete their projects as per terms that chances are they might miss the tenders for the supply of rural electrification project, phase three round two when they are up for grab. Speaking during the meeting, Acting REA Technical Services Director, Eng. Jones Olotu insisted on the need for contractors to ensure that all equipment needs are on the sites before the start of the rainy season. Supervisor of the Derm Electric project, Eng Aziz Msuya said implementation of the projects is done by 83.5 per cent, and that poles have been fitted on 24 villages, with only one remaining due to its geographical position. Director of Njarita project, Michael Njarita said much as they are planning to finish the project by December 31, shortage of wire and change of weather patterns have made them meet 67.8 per cent so far.