SELF-DECLARED billionaire Dr Louis Shika has his real albeit little known name—Lunyalula Kidola Makani. The famous Dr Shika whose current predicament the ‘Daily News’ wrote about on Wedsneday, reportedly changed his names after some white people deceitfully convinced him to engage in a dirty mission to acquire a company, which was actually not his. It was during the Soviet Union dissolution in Russia when the government declared to return back all confiscated private companies to their original owners. And, on the list was Chemical Industries Lancefort Company whose real owner, a black American Louis Shika, unfortunately didn’t show up, resulting into some crooks ganging up to grab the company. Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Officer Mhamila Kennedy who studied with Dr Shika (Makani) at Moscow State Medical University in Russia unveiled the untold story in Dar es Salaam. Mr Kennedy confirmed to have hosted Dr Makani for a couple of days in Moscow upon arrival at the university for his PhD studies. Not only they are college mates but Makani and Kennedy are natives of Ibadakuli village in Shinyanga region’s Kishapu district, said Mr Kennedy. Makani’s college mate narrated that because the real owner of Chemical Industries Lancefort Company was black, the ill-missioned white men sought any black man who could impersonate themselves as the real Shika’s son or relatives, enabling the white men to take the firm through the impostor. “That is when Dr Shika (Makani) lost focus. He renamed himself Louis Shika and acquired the company from the government but refused to sign as the white men had directed him,” narrated Mr Kennedy, adding: The whites abducted and tortured him, chopping his four fingers of both arms. Good luck, one of the then Tanzanian Ambassador in Russia (name withheld) successfully rescued him and assisted his escape back home. ” But, Mr Kennedy concurred that Dr Makani was among the celebrated Africans in Russia, owning among others, luxurious cars like Mercedes Benz before he was deceived into the dirty mission. Having read Dr Shika’s (Makani) story on the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, Mr Kennedy commented, “May be he truly managed to accumulate some amount of cash but from his own businesses and not from serving the university as he claims in the story. And, I don’t think the saving was that colossal. Yes, he has allures of becoming the richest man as were his expectations.” The college mate stressed that Dr Makani could reach far, financially because of his seriousness in engaging in any business that came his way, had it not been the treachery by the whites. “He wasn’t even taking alcohol. He was serious in making money and firmly committed to become the celebrated intellectual. And, the way he escaped from Russia, I don’t think he has certified academic credentials to serve as medical specialist, as he claims,” said the village mate. Mr Kennedy proposed support thorough counseling to Dr Makani to enable him return to his normal situation.