HARDFIGHTING Mwadui ended Simba’s 6-match solo run with painful 1-0 win in a tense Premier League match at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga on Wednesday. The first loss of season was unexpected for the defending champions as they lost the match which they dominated for most of period. Simba who tested their first loss yesterday now leave the clean sheet to Tanzania Prisons as the only team that hasn’t tested a defeat. Still Simba are commanding the Premier League helm with 18 points garnered from 6-match straight wins before losing the yesterday’s match. Simba started the game brightly pinning Mwadui defenders at their goal midway in the first half. Banking on agile striking force led by Meddie Kagere and Cletous Chama, Simba looked likely to score the opener any time in the first ten minutes. But Mwadui defenders worked hard to ensure Simba, especially goal-hungry Kagere doesn’t harm them. After surviving countless scares, Mwadui re-organized and began to raid Simba’s goal with tricky moves, the wholly depended on the long balls. Their efforts paid off in the 32nd minute Mwadui stunned Simba with tricky header. The cross from left flank found Gerald Mdamu who headed the ball at the far corner past Aishi Manula. Simba, reacted immediately with series of raids, but none paid off until the end of the first half Mwadui finished the first half lading 1-0 as the statistics showed both teams had equal ball possession of 50 per cent each. The second half saw Simba coming a rejuvenated side. They benched Chama and Sharaf Shiboub for Hassan Dilunga and Miraji Athumani in their attempt to level the score. But what cost Simba yesterday was lack of composure and disorganization as they missed over six clear chances that could have earned them a big victory yesterday. In the 47th Simba called in Hassan Dilunga for Shiboub while Miraji Athumani replaced Cletous Chama. For ten minutes in the second half Mwadui looked superior to Simba at the middle of terrain. Simba brought in Ibrahim Ajib for Francis Kahata in the 60th minute and his arrival added steam to the team. Simba could have equalized in the 61st minute when Ajibu’s pass found Miraj Athumani whose bicycle narrowly missed the target. In the 62nd Hassan Dilunga sent a tricky volley at Mwadui goal, but their defender came in quickly to clear the danger. In the 65th Ajib’s corner narrowly missed the target after the referees said the Simba players roughed the goalkeeper. In the 76th substitute Ibrahim Ajib curled a corner, but Mwadui defenders were very quick to clear it to the safety. Mwadui narrowly missed the second goal in the 80th minute, but the strike failed to hit target. Mtibwa Sugar defeated Coastal Union 2-1 in another Premier League match held at Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro. Also won yesterday were Ruvu Shooting Stars who defeated KMC 1-0 at Major General Isamuhyo ground in Mbweni Dar es Salaam. At Samora Machel stadium in Iringa, hosts Lipuli beat Polisi Tanzania 2-1 while at Sheikh Amri Abeid stadium in Arusha Singida United suffered a 2-1 loss to JKT Tanzania. Kagera Sugar defeated Namungo FC 2-0 at Kaitaba stadium.