THE Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo, has handed over 42 civil servants from Sumbawanga and Nkasi District Councils to Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to be investigated over loss of over 916m/- . The loss is part of domestic revenue collected in the two district councils during the 2018/19 Financial Year. He further listed the number of suspected civil servants as 22 ward and village executive officers from Nkasi and 18 from Sumbawanga District Council, while 16 others have been ordered to write official letters attached with necessary financial supporting documents and submit to Sumbawanga District Council Treasury office. Others on the list are Nkasi District Council’s treasurer and accountant. Mr Wangabo took the decision after convening a meeting which attracted DEDs, Sumbawanga municipal director, treasurers, accountants, village and ward executive officers from all four councils in the region which apply Local Government Revenue Collection Information System –(LGRCIS). Equally, the RC issued a seven day ultimatum to all revenue collectors who will fail to remit domestic revenue to district councils’ treasurers, including all those who have been handed over to PCCB, warning that cases of defiance will be shifted from PCCB and taken to the police for prosecution. “I have decided to hand over 42 civil servants to PCCB first until you refund our revenues which you have already collected so far. It must be refunded within the specific time I have offered you. Before that I gave you six days, and you failed to refund the money, and time has already expired. Today I am extending seven more days, if it expires and you fail to refund the money, the case will be shifted from PCCB to the police for arrest and prosecution,” reacted the RC. Contributing, the Nkasi District Internal Auditor, Mr Joseph Sengerema said the challenge of losses of domestic revenue done by revenue collectors is due to breaching of Local Government Financial Act. He further emphasized that it is against the local government act for the Executive Ward and Village Officers to use revenue they collect for personal gain without the consent of DEDs. Nkasi District Commissioner (DC), Mr Said Mtanda praised RC Wangabo for his action against defaulters in the precinct.