THE National Investments Company Limited (NICOL) has settled all the tax liabilities and other payments owed to the government and other institutions, including contributions to the members, amounting to over 2.25bn/-. This was revealed by Assistant Commissioner in the Ministry of Finance and Planning Shogolo Msangi when he was officiating the opening of the Fifth NICOL Shareholders Annual Meeting held in Dar es Salaam over the weekend on behalf of the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary. He pointed out that exemplary performance, diligence and good governance of NICOL’s leadership under the Board’s Chairman, Dr Gidion Kaunda, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Kinoni Wamunza and Secretary Benjamin Mwakagamba, was the secret behind such success. The Commissioner disclosed that of the amount in question, 1.67bn/-was paid by NICOL as tax accumulation, while 249,514,422/-was paid as members contributions to social security funds and other 340,025,670/-was dividend paid to the government. For this year, he said, the investment company has paid various taxes and fees amounting to 281,503,554/- and in 2018 a sum of 811m/- was paid, while 859m / -was paid in the 2017 year and that the dividend paid on social security funds in 2018 was 150m / -. “At the same time NICOL also contributed to 212m/-employees’ pensions, resulting in accumulation of employee contributions. NICIOL’s good leadership professional career would not have been possible without the integrity, discipline and expertise in the stock market field,” the Commissioner said. In such context, he said, there was a need of educating the public about the opportunities for such the kind of investment NICOL was doing, so that citizens could increasingly join and benefit from the benefits available, either directly or through government grants. “NICOL’s company currently has more than 30,000 shareholders and its resources are close to 100m/-, so integrity and good governance should be the foundation, characteristics and criteria that are important for elected officials and must be satisfied,” Mr Msangi pointed out. According to him, various challenges that have arisen in the past should be a lesson to the current leadership, so that NICOL avoids the consequences that had happened, including the loss of more than 18bn/-n before shareholder actions of changing the leadership. He recalled that NICOL had gone through a tough time commercially and performance from its founding in 2001 until the situation improved in 2016 following the changes of leadership. “Looking at the history of NICOL since its inception in 2001, it is clear that the government and the public have taken advantage of the investment and there have been investments from various public entities especially the social security funds of approximately six billion shares,” he said Mr Msangi paid tribute to NICOL’s current leadership and the people for the steps they have taken to bring the company back into good standing in line with the fivephase government’s guidance. He, however, encouraged the Company to expand its investment in industrial construction either in partnership with investors, the private sector or the government. The report by NICOL’s Board’s Chairman indicates that as of December 31, 2018, the Company’s investment portfolio in listed securities comprised of equity securities of 84.94bn/-. Dr Kaunda points out that the company has adopted and maintained a prudent proactive investment approach. According to him, the Company was closely monitoring the performance of the existing investment portfolios and as business strategy efforts were constantly under way to identify suitable investment opportunities with growth potential in assets appreciation to boost the company’s financial strength.