HARDLY three days after President John Magufuli talked tough against rustling in Rukwa Region, Police in Laela Police District, Sumbawanga District Council have arrested Laela Ward Livestock Officer on allegation of conniving in cattle rustling in several incidences. Emmanuel Tluway was arrested Wednesday by police after allegedly stealing two cattle and slaughtering one for meat stocked in his butchery for sale. Cattle rustling is rampant in Rukwa region, a situation that prompted Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola last week to remove Laela Police District Officer Commanding District (OCD) and other three senior officers for inaction. While addressing a public rally at SabaSaba playing ground at Namanyere Town, in Nkasi District, President Magufuli directed the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr Luhaga Mpina to visit the region in efforts to address the problem, where some leaders were mentioned to have been conniving in the crime. Impeccable report from the scene noted that Mr Tluway being a Livestock Officer at Laela Ward, was a notorious cattle rustler, using his local government post as a guise. A cross section of the residents reached for an interviewed by the “Daily News” alleged that the suspect (Tluway) though, he was on the wanted list of suspects, it was still not easy to arrest him because of lack of sufficient evidence. Reached for a comment, a Senior Police Officer from Laela District, who preferred anonymity said the suspect since October 09, this year has been on their radar after several tip offs. “The fresh meat and one stolen cow in possession of two people, whom we grilled admitted to have been associates of suspected livestock officer Tluway, “ said the cop. Narrating the incident, a resident from the town of Deusderious Ntamanyika, who is also petty trader in the area, told this paper over the phone that his two cattle went missing five days ago and with thorough search, they were found in a heard of six hidden in the suspect’s fenced residence. It was further alleged that the suspect had hired two laborers to secretly feed the stolen animals hidden in his yard. On his part, the Laela Ward Councilor, Nathan Sikainda told this paper over phone interview that the suspect has been eking out a living through the business for quite a long time. “When the law enforcers were arresting him (Tluway) I was there right inside his compound witnessing the herd of seven cattle hidden in the compound,” he added. When police interrogated him he admitted to have slaughtered one of them and ferried the meat to his butchery. The suspect also admitted to have transported other stolen herds three days ago to other markets using a hired lorry.