THE Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Kangi Lugola, has stripped four senior police officers, including Nkasi District Police Commander (OCD), Mr David Mutasya of their positions, due to failure to combat cattle rustling in Nkasi district, Rukwa region. Others are Nkasi District Criminal and Investigation Officer (OCCID) Emanuel Kajala, Head of Namanyere Police Station Ramadhani Msangi and In charge of Intelligence Department Salim Mshana. “All these officers will leave with me and will be assigned other duties,” reacted the minister after announcing the decision. Similarly, the minister directed the Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mathias Nyange, to take to task including arresting and prosecuting police officers from the unit formed to deal with the prevention and combating cattle rustling in the district after they allegedly swindled 12m/- they received from a pastoralist. The minister said he was compelled to react after giving citizen time to air their grievances and it was at that juncture they showed fingers on police officers for failure of preventing theft of cattle during the past five years and subsequently more than 270 cattle have been stolen and suspects have neither been arrested nor prosecuted. Kipundu area chairman, Joseph Kenani, on behalf of herders whose cattle had been stolen, told the minister that in 2015, about 25 cattle were stolen and three were stolen the following year. He further noted that during 2017, seventy five cattle were stolen and the figure for last year was 104, while this year so far, 26 have been stolen. “To the surprise of herders, no action was taken by Nkasi District Police through the anti-cattle theft department, as the culprits are walking freely. In addition, we have already lost faith in them, and strongly suspect that they are cooperating with the thieves; therefore arresting them is very difficult,” he noted. On her part, Ms Feliter Mkomo lamented before the minister that police officers from the Department of Preventing and Combating of cattle theft in Nkasi District allegedly swindled her 12m/- which was given to them by a cattle thief after the case was settled outside the court. She further explained that the money represented the value of her stolen cattle. “The thief was set free by police officers and has not been seen in public since then,” she added. Earlier, the Nkasi District Commissioner Said Mtanda asked the minister to take action against all dishonest police officers in Nkasi District.