STRIKER John Bocco has been ruled out of today’s Premier League match when Simba face Singida United here at Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium. Simba SC manager Patrick Rweyemamu said Bocco is still nursing injuries therefore won’t be available for the match against Singida United. He, however, said Bocco is almost recovered, but not fully recovered to play in today’s Premier League match. He said the player has been conducting light exercises as he continues to shape up for the forthcoming league matches. Bocco was injured in August this year during the Community Shield match between Simba and Azam FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Tanzanian champions Simba SC have already missed the services of the striker in their Caf Champions League qualifier match against UD Songo and five Premier League games his team has played so far. Bocco, the 30-year old striker, collided with Frank Domayo and was subsequently replaced by Clatous Chama in the 17th minute. A contingent of 22 players and officials arrived here and all players were engaged in a training session yesterday. He named others who are left in Dar es Salaam include Mohamed Hussein, Jonas mkude, Ally Salehe and Shomari Kapombe, all, according to Rweyemamu will miss today’s game. He said ten officials have accompanied the team in Arusha. Rweyemamu thanked residents of Arusha for a huge reception they accorded players and the officials. He said:”As the players and the club’s officials make sure we get everything right before the return match, I also call upon our fans to come out and support the team as they did last season so as, together, we can make sure we get the desired results.” Unfazed by Simba threat, Singida United Head Coach Ramadhan Nsanzurwimo said they will use their new home ground to get good results. Adding he said they are not threatened by big names of their opponents’ players as themselves are among the country’s big teams. “We respect Simba, but don’t fear them. We are ready to show them our incredible football skills, Let them come now,” he said.