I AM sitting in this daladala heading home, after a long day, it is 8pm on Saturday. There is this couple who look quite young I would guess maybe in their early 20s. The guy is wearing a pair of shorts and sandals with this t-shirt making it look like he was the one being visited, the host. The lady is dressed impeccably, she looks amazing, I can say dressed to impress bae as his guest. I watch them as they arrive, the way they hold hands as they await for her to get on the 'daladala’. The konda says “haiya watatu wa mwisho,” she turns and hugs him. It is that awkward hug, they are familiar with each other yet are aware they are being watched by most people around. So there is this shrug like they are embarrassed and I smile. So what, we were all young once and felt that awkwardness of hugging your partner on a bus stop and wondering what the people watching thought of us. It is even more troubling when you decide to kiss in the middle of a street and all eyes are on you, (did I just quote a song title) and you don’t know how to react afterwards. Watching these two was like a sense of déjà vu and nostalgia moment. I admire such young love when you think that you can survive it all. You are 18 and can call him your future husband and your beautiful future is already perfectly planned, kids and where your permanent residence would be or he calls you the mother of his children. It is the novelty of first love, it makes the smartest people absolutely dumb I think. I don’t mean it literally of course. But that love feeling is great you know. Lemme take you back a little bit to my teen days when I met him, technically met him in my late teens, and fell for him that hard and woah I was swept off my feet and I did not even know it at the time. I fell hard and deep, those late night calls and good afternoon texts did I mention the texting. I remember the dedications you know. Ow, hey 'Power of Love ' by Celine Dion was definitely one of those songs we listened to together. You know when you like “babe listen to this” And every time you hear the song you remember him or her and are fast at telling your friends “you know so and so dedicated me this song”. Damn the good old days of young love and dedication. Years later today when you look back at those good old days and you just laugh it off at what you really were thinking and you really can't recall what you were talking about because it was just that time and those conversations that made it all worth the stay, indeed the beauty of creating memories together. That innocence that had us crazy and crazy love that completely had us on edge and I am certain we all miss that innocent love. Most of us have experienced this love you know when you are young and doe-eyed and your sun and moon rise with that one person. When you can’t leave your phone because you are scared they would call you and you will miss it. When you smile when they say hey and a how’s your day going makes you blush and smile alone like an idiot. This kind of love is special, it has no demands and no questionable loyalties, there are no huge expectations, each person is sure of their partner, contented. So I wonder, what happens when people grow up? Where does that innocence go to, when do you discover that there is cheating and playing the ground? At some point we grow up and we learn more than we should, and our expectations spun out. Then we want to think more critically about our partner and based on our environment we start to see their faults then break ups happen and we star in several relationships before we decide we want to be innocent, young, and dumb in love again. Young love, why is it so great why is it unattainable once you are older? There was a time we never thought twice about forgiving and maintaining our relationships, what happened to those people? What happened to you? What changed your perspective of love? When did you become sinister and start saying ‘all chicks are just after money’ or ‘all guys are dogs’? So I officially declare I miss the days of purity and innocence and dedicating ‘no air’ by Chris Brown and Jordin sparks to loved ones coz we loved freely and purely and we were innocently in love for sure.