PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa yesterday told investors in the country to report any corrupt-related hurdles they face, noting that Tanzania is currently earnestly determined to curb the vice. At any place where you face obstacles due to corruption, please report, and we will deal with the government official involved. "Tanzania is wholly determined to stamp out corruption, and so, come and invest in Tanzania," the Prime Minister remarked. He aired the sentiments Coast Region while opening an investment and business forum as well as investment guideline for the region. The forum and the guideline target to boost investments in the region which is now regarded as strategic for industrial investment as the country implements its agenda towards attaining industry-driven economic status by 2025. The prime minister commended Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), publishers of Daily News, Sunday News, Habari Leo and Spoti Leo, for organising such forums in the regions. He urged regions that hadn’t held such forums to contact TSN, which has organised several of them. The regional investment guidelines are prepared by the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF) with funding from the United Nations Development Programme (ESRF). Since the Fifth Phase Government came to power, the region has established at least 300 industries, raising the number to 1,192 in all. "We have put in place regulation frameworks to support investors, and the government is always attentive to investors as it allows investment debates," Mr Majaliwa explained. The President has personally been inviting investors and traders to hold dialogues with him and has formed a special ministry of investments to serve investors. "If you have any problem, please approach the investment minister, Ms Angellah Kairuki, or come directly to me," the Prime Minister told investors. Over the past four years, the government has been making efforts to increase industrial investments. During that period about 4000 industries have been established countrywide. The premier further noted that Coast Region was an ideal place for investments, as it is peaceful and secure, as well having enough land for investments, a railway line and major roads connecting other regions. "Investors will not regret after investing in Coast Region," the Prime Minister told investors. He gave an assurance that the government was continuing to improve electricity production and supply, strengthening water supply infrastructures and has many strategies for improving those areas. "If you want to establish industries, raw materials are available within the country," he emphasized. Mr Majaliwa said Tanzania was generally a very ideal place in which to invest, due to opportunities available and other factors, including peace, tranquility and democracy. He explained that the country now had a strong economy. Over a two-year period, it has been maintaining an economic growth rate of 7.0 per cent, thus making the country among five in Africa with fast-growing economies. Coast Regional Commissioner Evarist Ndikilo said the region had never had the guideline since it was established in 1970's. The preparation of the guideline was prompted by a directive from the prime minister, who directed that all regions have investment guideline. The Coast Region investment guideline sought to publicise investment opportunities. "The region has opportunities and an enabling environment that makes investors to think of it as the first choice for investing in," he said. Eng Ndikilo cited major investment incentives as geographical location, a reliable market in Dar es Salaam and a railway line that crosses the region to other regions. He said a natural gas pipeline passes in three districts of Mkuranga, Rufiji and Kibiti and some of industries in the districts have started using the natural gas as a source of power. The Regional Commissioner requested the government to declare the region an industrial zone. Executive Director of the Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF), Dr Tausi Kida, said the Foundation has been preparing such regional investment guidelines with financial support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The guidelines focus on analysing and identifying opportunities available in the regions, and so far the ESRF has completed crafting the guidelines for 12 regions and currently works on preparing the guidelines for five other regions. "We are getting set to prepare guidelines for the rest of the regions," Dr Kida stated.