TANZANIA Urban Resilience Programme (TURP), is focused to create climate smart infrastructure in the fast growing cities like Dar es Salaam. Climatic disasters like floods are more complicated than just mapping drains or rivers, solid waste, erosion and river sedimentation are among the major factors, mentioned by World Bank (WB) Disaster Risk Management senior specialist Edward Anderson. “As cities grow very fast they become vulnerable to floods, landslides, erosion and sediments. The functioning of the city is put at risk if they grow too fast in an unplanned and uncoordinated way,” he said during the launch of a two-day conference dubbed “Understanding Risk Tanzania (URTZ)” in the city yesterday. He noted that there was a need to improve the way the cities were measured, surveyed and managed to ensure their systems worked well, including transportation, drainage, solid waste and basin management. He explained that there was a need to plan well for the future and ensure infrastructure remained safe for the coming 50-100 years. He said the five-year TURP, in collaboration with the Prime Minister’s Office (Disaster Management) and the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), with financial support from UKAid Department for International Development, aimed at helping Tanzanian cities to develop safely, equitably and be more resilient to shocks, especially climate shocks. “We need to have dramatic change to modify the flow and channel of rivers, retain water and sediments and implement land measures in mid and upper basins to reduce soil erosion,” he said. UK Department for International Development (DIFD), chief scientist, Prof Charlotte Watts, said Dar es Salaam had a population of 6 million people today, but as the ninth fastest growing city in the world it was likely to have a population of 13 million by 2035. “Dar es Salaam’s rapid population growth is overloading its infrastructure and environmental systems, reducing the quality of life for its residents.” Prof Watts explained that deforestation and unplanned urban development were causing rapid soil erosion that was silting up rivers and increasing flood intensity and duration. “Climate change is worsening the impact through more unpredictable weather patterns and frequent intense rainfall,” she added. She gave an example of the river bed of Msimbazi, which he said was increasing every year and mangroves were getting buried in sediments. “A study has found out that every year 950,000 cubic metres of sand enough to fill the national stadium is washed down Msimbazi River,” she said. For his part, Deputy Minister of State in the President's Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Josephat Kandege, launching the conference, said rapid urbanisation, unplanned human settlements and inadequate infrastructure contributed to increased vulnerability of the people to disasters. “Our cities are specifically struggling with solid waste management, which has been a major factor for recurrent floods and associated risks. Disasters impact people’s lives, their health, properties and livelihoods,” he said.