MAINLAND Premier League champions, Simba SC maintained their unbeaten run with a 1-0 victory over Kenya’s Bandari FC in a thrilling friendly match at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Simba fans had to wait until the 78th minute to see a goal that was brilliantly netted by Ibrahim Ajib, who besides showing classy football was the player who entertained most of the fans who attended the math. Ajib outmanouvred Bandari defenders to tap home a superb cross inside the box from youngster Rashid Juma. The two sides displayed good footwork throughout the game which witnessed several chances being created by both teams but their strikers failed to turn them into goals. Simba, who are currently unbeaten in the league, are drilling for their forthcoming Premier League game against Azam FC. Simba dominated the first half, but failed to utilise the chances they created through Ibrahim Ajib , Deo Kanda , Wilker da Silva and Francis Kahata who were either denied by goalkeeper Michael Wanyika or shot off taget. Bandari FC, under former Young Africans striker Bernard Mwalala, also put a stiff battle and they could have the match lead in the 40th minute , five minutes before the breather but Simba goalkeeper who had a good game Benno Kakolanya put up a brilliant save to deny them a goal. Bandari also used the match to prepare players for their CAF Confederation playoff match against Horoya FC of Guinea. It was William Wadri who released a close range on target shot which Kakolanya cleared it. Kakolanya who is Simba’s second choice goalkeeper made several superb saves in both halves denying Bandari any chance to score. In the second half, Simba who missed several key players, made several changes by introducing Said Ndemla, Yusuf Mlipili and Rashid Juma for Wilker and Kanda respectively and the changes helped Simba to strengthen their attacks on their opponents’ goal. Francis Kahata, the former Gor Mahia midfielder now with Simba, tried a long range shot but Bandari goalkeeper Wanyika pushed it away for an abortive corner and as well substitute Ndemla could have scored with another long range shot, but Wanyika was once again on guard. After yesterday’s game against Bandari, Simba are expected to travel to Kigoma where they will face Mashujaa FC at the Lake Tanganyika Stadium. Simba will play against Mashujaa FC tomorrow on Nyerere Day which is a public holiday and then they take on Burundian champions Aigle Noir de Makamba on October 16 before facing Azam FC in the epic Premier League match on October 23. Bandari who are currently placed number eight in Kenya Premier League (KPL), will play their CAF Confederation Cup playoff match against AC Horoya of Guinea on October 27th in Conakry before hosting them on November 3rd. Speaking after the game Bandari’s head coach Mwalala said the game was a good test for his side ahead of the continental assignment. He said it was good to the team despite missing some of his key players.