BENJAMIN Mkapa Foundation (BMF) launched its third Strategic Business Plan (SBP III) yesterday, promising 156bn/- injection into the health sector. The Mkapa foundation will execute the ambitious 68 million US dollars in the next five years. BMF Settlor former President Benjamin Mkapa launched the plan that aims at complementing and supporting government efforts in delivery of health care services through strategic partnerships. “Tanzania has continued registering impressive progress towards attaining the national and global development projects. “Hence, I believe through the outstanding leadership of the government of Tanzania, we shall successfully advance through socio-economic transformation towards attaining middle-income status,” the former president remarked. The initiative seeks to facilitate the attainment of Tanzania Development Vision2025 and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Mr Mkapa was equally impressed that the foundation has proven to be a trustworthy local institution which has effectively supplemented efforts by the government of Tanzania and development partners in providing qualityhealth services, particularly in underserved areas. “As the institution embarks on its next five-year strategic and business direction, I urge upon the need to maintain the classic track record.“It is my anticipation that the unique attributes will prevail within the institution to attract more partners, ensure growth and sustainability to serve better the key beneficiaries and stakeholders,” Mr Mkapa urged. Deputy Minister for Health, Community, Development, Gender and Children Dr Faustine Ndugulile hailed the foundation for being a good partner with the government particularly in capacity building for health practitioners as well as other projects in HIV/ AIDS which have contributed significantly to gains attained in the health sector. The deputy minister pointed that Tanzania has made substantial gains in improving access and quality of health services, including increased overall childhood survival over the years with vaccination coverage of 97 per cent among eligible children. “Additionally, Malaria prevalence, incidences and mortality have declined while tuberculosis treatment success rate is high but there is a challenge in its detection,” he stated. Dr Ndugulile noted as well that the health sector still faces numerous challenges and thus the need for strengthening of health systems since it is a crucial component of the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development goals and Universal Health Coverage (UHC). BMF Executive Director Dr Ellen Mkondya-Senkoro said the foundation’s niche of working in partnerships will be strengthened in the coming years by cementing cooperation with the government, donors, civil society organisations, researchers, media and other interested parties. She was proud that BMF has been among leading institutions which have sustained their credibility and trust to the government and various partners in development through innovative, adaptive and evidence based approaches.