THE development of any sports everywhere in the world requires serious investment in youth from where real talent can be identified, nurtured and perfectly groomed to reach its full potential. In view of this, it is not a hidden fact that young people like taking part in various sports activities and they simply need support from external forces to keep them on the ground and focus on what they really want to achieve after reaching their mature age. Its a good gesture to see that Tanzania is not staying behind as far as organising numerous sports events which are mainly embraced by youths bearing in mind that it is the area which requires much and coordinated effort not only by sports stakeholders but even the companies which have passion to see that the country moves ahead in terms of sports development. After seeing that government alone cannot afford to uplift football standards in the country, OnePlus Communications Company has stepped in with massive strategies aimed at enhancing the spirit of football play among young people in various academies across the country. Surely, they deserve a big plus for committing themselves to go extra mile and invest something in ensuring that sport talent available in young people is fully protected until they reach sparkling age. With good cooperation from the country’s football governing body, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), OnePlus Communications company has organised a one day thrilling sports event dubbed ‘Dar Youth Cup’ set on November 2nd this year at Gymkhana Club grounds in Dar es Salaam from 9:00am. No entry charges will be imposed on people who will come to witness the competition hence an opportunity for Dar es Salaam residents and those from nearby areas to descend at the named venue in their big numbers. TFF has always been on the forefront in advocating for more partners to come forth and assist them in running various football events hence, with the emerging of OnePlus company, the federation has completely been relieved of its duties. However, in her remarks lately in Dar es Salaam, One- Plus Director Fina Mango reiterated that they are more interested to see that football development is taken seriously from the grassroots level where she said potential talent is hidden. “We will be conducting this glamorous young football event twice every year by inviting various football academies from across the country under one roof for them to show the world what they are capable of doing and who knows, some of them (young players) will end up playing for big clubs within and outside the country,” she said. Adding, Mango disclosed that since they are just beginning the endeavor, they have decided to label it as a Pilot Event which will be gaining momentum as days goes by hence called upon for more football academies to actively take part. She further revealed that the event targets young people belonging to three different age groups of 9, 11 and 13 from the selected academies in Dar es Salaam who will be on the battlefield showcasing their football skills and that each category will have eight teams. “This should be like a positive challenge for other companies in the country to borrow a leaf from us and organise similar football contests for the sake of letting our children play and have fun. To say the truth, if we can be serious to put much energy on these young people, we can be assured of having competent players for our senior team Taifa Stars,” Mango elaborated. She added that after visiting different football academies in the city, OnePlus was inspired to see how young players were organising themselves as such, they saw it important to start calling them together so that they can learn from one another and in the same process, foster their independent skills. “To be honest, we were all convinced on the way they played with focus and revealed determination that most of them were not just playing to have fun but rather they want to go up and play football in big levels. This is the kind of spirit OnePlus Communications company wants to build among these youths,” said she. Mango, on the other hand, specifically lauded TFF for blessing them to organise the event saying that was a green light for them to shift into the driving gear as far as preparations are concerned. “It is very pleasing to see that what we are doing is fully backed by TFF who are always cooperative when we need their support and let me use this platform to dearly thank them,” she said. She then urged parents and guardians to allow their children to engage in sports events saying it helps to improve their health and in the same way, enables them to get new friends whom they come across at the playing venues. “We expect to see more youth clubs being established while the existing ones will now be doing their activities seriously during their respective training sessions so that they can do well in Dar Youth Cup contests”. “We also hope and expect that Premier League teams will use the upcoming Dar Youth Cup as their source for tapping youth players who may be included in their youth programs,” Mango noted. According to her, the academies which have confirmed to participate on the eventful day are International School of Tanganyika (IST), JMK Youth Park, Sunrise International School, Dar es Salaam Independent School (DIS), Agakhan Primary School, BBV Youth Club and Magnet Youth Football Club. Others are Oysterbay Soccer Pitch (OSP), Matosa Youth Soccer Foundation, Tegeta United Football Club, Garden Kids Football Academy, No Escape Football Club, Braeburn International School, Karume Youth Center, Magorofani Youth Academy, Mabagala Youth Academy, Capston Christian School and Winners Academy. OnePlus has opened the way, others should support it in different approach.