ENERGY and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) has asked the High Court to summon and commit to prison Wang Xiao Dong over alleged disobedience. EWURA, in its Friday lodged an application under certificate of urgency, seeks an order to summon the respondent to show cause why he shouldn’t be committed to prison over noncompliance to the order that prohibits him from operating a waste oil recycling facility. The applicant through the application by Advocate Edwin Kidiffu from the authority’s legal affairs division also demands the respondent, Managing Director of Shin Up Tanzania Limited, which owns and operates the waste oil recycling facility at Visiga Industrial Area in Kibaha District, Coast Region, to be committed to prison for contempt of the March 19, 2019 dated compliance order. Advocate Kidiffu has stated in the certificate of urgency that the respondent continues with operations at the facility in blatant violation of the law and in a manner that is detrimental to health, safety and environmental requirements, posing a danger to lives and property. In his affidavit to support the application Engineer Shaban Selemani stated that on March 2, 2019, two Ewura’s inspectors, Engineers Emmanuel Panja and Ibrahim Kajugusi inspected the facility to check compliance of the law in relation to its operations. Engineer Selemani, Technical Manager Petroleum with the applicant, states that it was observed during the inspection that the operations in the facility were conducted in violation of the law and in a manner that was detrimental to health, safety and environmental requirements. Specifically, it was observed that the facility was not paved with impervious materials to prevent spillage of oil and waste oil to the ground and personnel were not provided with Personal Preventive Equipment (PPE) contrary to health, safety and environmental (HSE) requirements and the law. He stated that the facility has been constructed without applying and obtaining a Construction Approval from the applicant as required by Section 127 (1) of the Petroleum Act and Rule 4 of the Petroleum (Waste Oils Recycling Operations) Rules. Furthermore, according to the affidavit, the facility has been operating without applying and obtaining a licence from Ewura, contrary to Section 131 (1) of the Petroleum Act and Rule 11 of the Petroleum (Waste Oils Recycling Operations) Rules, GN No. 220/2017. “Following the inspection by the applicant’s experts, the applicant issued the compliance order of March 19, 2019. The order required Shin Up Tanzania Limited to immediately stop operating the facility,” reads the affidavit by Engineer Selemani