THE Tanzania government is on course and well placed to benefit in its one year chairmanship of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and its citizens should follow suit. Opportunities keep evolving for the government and citizens in different areas, especially in business, and the country is wasting no time in tapping them. A joint meeting of the region’s environment, natural resources and tourism sectors is taking place here with hundreds of people in need of services. The meeting that brings together SADC ministers responsible for environment, natural resources and tourism will monitor environmental trends and climate change, identifying the implementation of conservation and environmental management strategies through the SADC Strategy on the Blue Economy and assessing development in forestry, wildlife and tourism sectors. The Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Alloyce Nzuki, and the Director of Regional Integration Department in the ministry, Ms Agnes Kayola, said here that the Government was keen to get positive results in the strategies they had set for the one year stint and called upon the public not to be carried away but work hard. The ministers’ meeting brings participants from 16-member states preceded by a meeting of wildlife experts that started yesterday through today, it is an opportune moment for Tanzanians to carry on tapping the same in doing business on different sectors. Dr Nzuki said here that permanent secretaries in responsible ministries will meet from October 21st to 24th. The meetings will discuss and prepare proposals for the session of ministers to be held on October 25th, for decisions and instructions. It is a great opportunity for Tanzanians to make business in different sectors, such as handicrafts and tourism. There will be different meetings taking place in the country in the one year that Tanzania holds the chairmanship of the SADC. Ms Kayola unveiled some strategies by the ministry and government at large to ensure that the flag carrier, Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL), is facilitated to revive its routes to SADC member states. She mentioned another as ensuring implementation of the application of Kiswahili as one of official languages of the Community; motivate collaboration among member states as well as see to it that agreements reached are enforced so as to maintain peace and security and steer development in the bloc.