THE government is in the process of establishing irrigation schemes in each municipality to ensure the nation attains reliable and sustainable crop production which will contribute more to food security. Agriculture Minister, Japhet Hasunga told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the schemes will serve as a demonstration plot of irrigation schemes for small scale farmers in the country. “We are planning to set up schemes in each municipality, the aim being to help small scale farmers learn and adapt for crop production in the country,” he said, adding that the schemes will enable the smallholders engage in crop production all year around. He said the ministry was reviewing the National Irrigation Commission (NIRC), in order and create a new system that will facilitate the management of irrigation schemes at the district level. The change of the commission will lead to the recruitment of irrigation officers at the district level and form irrigation secretariats at regional level towards ensuring efficiency of the schemes. The review will also lead to identification and utilization of irrigation potential areas for sustainable irrigation development in the country. The minister said that his ministry is soliciting funds from donors to develop the potential irrigation areas. He said that currently, there are 2678 irrigation schemes and some of them are not productive. Studies indicate that the currently increasing global warming and climate change is having negative effects on the optimal availability of water resources for crop production worldwide, including Tanzania. In this regard, Tanzania needs to take advantage of utilising the identified irrigation potential areas for sustainable irrigation development. Deputy Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Professor Siza Tumbo, said last week that country needs to increase food production in order to meet its own food requirements and food exports. He said the country produces 108 per cent food requirements and in order to become a major food exporting country should be able to attain 150 per cent of food production per year. Professor Tumbo made the revelation when during a workshop to disseminate research findings on Local Government Authorities (LGAs), to allocate 10 per cent budget for youth, women and people with disabilities and popular version for NYSYIA 2016-2021. The workshop was organized by the Agriculture Non-State Actors Forum (ANSAF).