THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday pinned down two sureties, requiring them to prove that former Singida East Member of Parliament (MP), Tundu Lissu, who is facing a criminal trial, is still sick. Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba directed the sureties, Ibrahim Hamadi and Robert Katula, who bailed out Lissu in the sedition case to present in the next court session proof of his health status. “The sureties must come with proof on the developments of the accused person’s sickness in the next court session so that we can keep the same in our records,” the magistrate directed before adjourning the trial to November 21, 2019, for hearing. Before adjournment of the case, State Attorney Estazia Wilson, for the prosecution, had informed the court that the case was set for continuation of hearing on the prosecution’s case, but they could not proceed with the session because the opposition party leader was absent. Apart from Lissu, who was the lawmaker on a Chadema ticket, other accused persons in the matter are senior journalist Simon Mkina, a printer, Ismail Mehbood and another seasoned journalist, Jabir Yunus. The charges they are facing include conspiracy to publish a seditious publication, publishing and printing a seditious publication and printing a newspaper without submission of an affidavit. They are charged with an alternative count of intimidation to the charge of publishing seditious publication. It is alleged that between January 12 and 14, 2016, at an unknown place in the city, Yunus, Mkina and Lissu conspired together to publish a seditious publication. According to the prosecution, the publication bore the title “Machafuko yaja Zanzibar,” in the newspaper, ‘Mawio’, dated January 14, 2016. The prosecution alleged that the said accused persons published the material on January 14, 2016, in Dar es Salaam, with intent to excite disaffection to the citizens of Zanzibar against lawful authority of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar. On January 13, 2016, at Jamana House area in Ilala District, Mehbood printed the seditious publication contained in the newspaper for similar purposes and that printed Mawio newspaper without prior submission of an affidavit to the Registrar of Newspapers. Yunus, Mkina and Lissu were charged with an alternative count of intimidation to that of publishing seditious material. The prosecution told the court that the accused persons committed the offence on January 14, 2016. It is alleged that wrongfully and without legal authority, the trio having published the article intimidated the people of Tanzania Zanzibar to refrain from the conduct of the re-run of the Zanzibar General Elections, 2016. The accused persons, according to the prosecution, had indicated in the article that the re-run of the said elections would lead into an outbreak of war and public unrest, resulting into bloodshed.