CONCEIVING and raising one child in today’s life is surely demanding to a modern family, an opinion Ms Flora Masunga (38), a resident of Kambasingu village, Itilima District in Simiyu Region, tend to disagree with after managing to give birth to 11 children. It is palpable that giving birth to 11 children may sound strange to some people who find it a challenge and difficult to take care of them in an ordinary sense. However, for Ms Masunga, each and every child comes with his/her own grace and blessings. “We are blessed with 11 children, where four of them are girls and seven are boys.” she says adding: “I did not worry anything; I knew each child would come with individual blessings.” Ms Masunga, a farmer and traditional healer gave birth for the first time in 1998, at a time when she was only 17 years old. She narrates that all her children were delivered at home, adding: “I always gave birth at home, it was a normal practice and I feared nothing.” Being a traditional healer, Ms Masunga believes giving birth is a simple practice and knows nothing about family planning and reproduction health. Instead, she has been convincing other women in the village to give birth to as many children as possible, because each and every one comes with his/her blessing. As a traditional healer, Ms Masunga, provides herbal medicines to the womenfolk, who find themselves with conception problems, and convince them that she has solutions to their problems. "For quite a long time some have failed to conceive, but assist them and they deliver. So far at least five have managed to conceive and give birth after getting my medicine,” she adds. Change of mind Apart from wearing a smiling face that assures all the time, Ms Masunga admits that life has not been easier for her. Expounding, she says she has been dedicating her entire life to deliver children and nurture them with love and care, which has made her become able to provide them with everything they need in the pursuit of future. “My husband works at the mining sites, where he is struggling, but we always communicate and he supports the family, however, I also keep on fighting to make sure that our children always have food to eat,” she says. In her narration, she admits that family planning is something every family should embrace for a healthy and prosperous life without further explanation. A case study, she points out that a Community Health Worker (CHW), once helped her and other women in the village, and now she understands the meaning and importance of family planning and childspacing. “To be honest, we were not aware of such things, we were introduced to the matter by the CHW, who also advised us to attend to clinic and make sure we deliver at Health Centres,” she explained. According to Ms Masunga, after giving birth to twins in August 5, 2019, she asked the doctor to apply her with a permanent family planning. “I had already talked about this matter with my husband after I received education from the CHW, we therefore agreed to use a permanent family planning, I therefore asked doctors to perform the process on me soon after giving birth,” she explains. Advantages of family planning CHW plays a big role of educating partners on the importance of family planning. With the support of CHW, majority parents in Itilima District are now aware of the importance of family planning, which includes presenting partners with an opportunity to make decision on when to get another child and spacing for the health benefit of the mother. Also family planning enables parents to take good care of their children. Ms Masunga says: “My children’s health has improved, and I believe family planning is the way to go.” Other advantages of family planning to a mother are that the practice enables her to regain her health after delivery. It also gives her enough time and opportunity to love and provide attention to her husband and children. Also family planning methods gives her more time and her family to advance in other matters, including may be while she is suffering from any illness. For children, healthy mothers produce healthy children. Children get all the attention, security, love, and car. For fathers, family planning lightens the burden and responsibility in supporting the family. It enables him to give his children their basic needs (food, shelter, education, and better future). Moreover, it gives him time also for his own personal advancement and other arrangements. Ms Masunga said the process for permanent family planning went well with her, adding: “I am very thankful to the doctors, nurses and CHWs in my area, they gave me education on the matter and the process was well.” Equally, she adds that apart from providing herbs to her clients, she will now engage them in family planning education. “I was not using family planning methods, today, I am aware of it and will always pass the message to my fellow women and girls in my area, because we need healthy mothers, children and strong families,” she noted. Commenting, Dr Izack Bugoya of Nkome Health Centre thanked the USAID Boresha Afya, the project that is funded by United States Agency for International Development (USAID). He said that through the USAID Boresha Afya, health service providers, CHWs and other stakeholders have been trained on various issues including family planning that has been of much benefit to many. He said: “We have received modern equipment and trainings from USAID Boresha Afya, and we are very thankful for the support.” He said that Ms Masunga visited them at the hospital with her husband after they were educated by the CHW on the importance of family planning. He said that after addressing them, he decided to perform the permanent family planning procedure on her that is safe and medically approved. The response in the area Dr Bugoya said the response is still low in the area due to the traditions and culture the villagers cling to. According to Dr Bugoya, majority of the residents think it is a bad thing for a woman to stop giving birth. “Others think medical services are dangerous to their lives, therefore, they avoid anything related to family planning and other medical related services,” he said. However, Dr Bugoya believes that with the ongoing campaign, support and efforts by both the government USAID Boresha Afya, things will change slowly and already some people are responding positively. He linked the mindset change to the villagers’ stereotype ideas that it is harmful, but with the ongoing education in the community by healthcare providers as well as CHWs empowered by USAID Boresha Afya, they will gradually change. “We have asked Ms Masunga to be our ambassador on family planning campaign, and she would be a good example for others,” he said. On his side, Samwel Ndongo, a CHW in Gambasingu village said he is grateful that Ms Masunga and her husband’s decision to apply permanent family planning have succeeded. “We advise parents to consider family planning for them to be able to take good care of their families,” he said. He added: “I met Ms Masunga for some pieces of advice and education and she agreed…I decided to meet her along with her husband; I told them again that they need to go for family planning.” Mr Ndongo said the two agreed based on the importance of family planning and by considering their economic status with hopes that others would follow suit in the area.