NMB bank yesterday donated 215 desks worth 20m/- to three Secondary Schools in Ulanga District, Morogoro Region and Ng’hoboko Secondary School in Meatu District, Simiyu Region. Handing over the desks at Ng’hoboko Secondary School, NMB Bank Western Zone Manager Sospeter Magesse to Ulanga District Commissioner (DC), Ngolo Malenya said that the alms would assist the schools to address desks’ shortages they have been facing and enable students to sit comfortably and study. He further said that the bank has been setting aside 1bn/- every year as plough back to the communities to address challenges they face in health and education sector among others. “NMB as a Tanzanians’ bank will still team up with the government and other Tanzanians to improve the education and health services among others, and we believe with the spirit and support, students will have a learning environment and study hard,” he added. The Manager on distribution mentioned the Schools as Mahenge, Vigoi and Isongo that would get 165 desks worth 15m/- and for Ng’hoboko 50 worth 5m/-. Mr Magesse said that the items apart from the ones earlier donated within the same week were part of the bank’s support to the communities’ development projects, where so far 675 m/- has been released this year in their societies plough back programme. Commenting, Mr Malenya asked the students to be good ambassadors to their parents on how the bank has assisted them, and in turn open accounts with the institution as clients. “If your parents/guardians and the general public open different more accounts with NMB, definitely the bank with realize a lot of profit and come back to support you (as a community) and improve services,” he added. On his part, NMB Central Zone Manager Nsolo Mlozi said when donating some medical equipment including Ward beds, bed sheets and mattresses worth 5m/-to Kiteto District Hospital that the assistance was a show of appreciation to the people and returning them profits they have made. In response, Meatu District Commissioner (DC) Dr Joseph Chilongani thanked the bank for the support and asked the teachers as well as the students to handle them with care so that they last long.