SERENGETI Breweries Limited (SBL) has unveiled a new look corporate identity that represents the company’s transformative journey and the strides made for more than 20 years ago. Speaking at the launch of new corporate identity in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, the Minister for Industries and Trade Innocent Bashungwa has commended the brewer for the growth and pledged the government’s continued support to improve the business environment for investors. The minister made reference to the ongoing policy reforms geared towards eliminating bureaucracy in public institutions that are considered barriers to trade. He further hailed the SBL for its contributions towards the growth of the economy. “I am informed that for the period spanning three years SBL purchased an average of 60 per cent of raw materials from local farmers including 10,000 tons in 2016, (approximately 50 per cent ), 13,000 tons in 2017 accounting for 60 per cent and in 2018, 15,000 tons was reached,”. I am pleased to note that you intend to purchase over 80 per cent of your raw materials needed locally in 2020,” he said. The SBL Chairman Mr John Ulanga said the logo reflects the company’s new growth ambition by investing 40bn/- to expand its operations. “The investment will foster creation of more jobs, increase the brewer’s tax contribution to the government and ultimately cement the company’s position as a major player and partner in nation building,” he said. SBL Managing Director, Mark Ocitti said at the launch of new corporate identity that the new logo stands for values held dear by the Tanzanian consumers. The new logo, added the MD, underpins the brewer’s unique identity and the strides the company has made over the years from owning a single small brewery based in Dar es Salaam to the giant company it is today. “The new SBL logo stands for, quality, craftsmanship, professionalism, dynamism, modern, optimism, friendly, warm, open, self-confident but not arrogant. It also shows we work with natural ingredients,” he said. The new logo, added the MD, portrays the beer-maker’s unique identity and ‘the strides the company has made over the years from owning a single small brewery based in Dar es Salaam to the giant company today. SBL currently operates three breweries located in Moshi, Mwanza and Dar es Salaam, employing over 800 staff both directly and indirectly. SBL’s redesigned new logo shows the company’s existing customers that they are modern and up-to-date, and to the prospective customers that they are worthy of being considered and are valued. Customers are dynamic where twenty years ago, they were different from today’s millennial whose tastes and preferences significantly differ. When SBL started, the logo designed then was perfectly emblematic of what the company stood for at the time. Since no company remains static forever the brewer, for instance, has evolved in leaps and bounds over time-there is no doubt that there was a need to graphically reflect these changes through a new logo.