LARRY King, a famous CNN presenter and a programme host of “Larry King Live” features in an advertising message which says “In the global economy money gets made and money gets lost.” This means doing and/or engaging in business is all about taking risks. Indeed, I can’t agree more with him. Those in business understand this and have developed a thick skin to turn the challenges into opportunities. Advertising business is grounded on the same principle too. All it does is to bring together creative minds to stir people’s interests to purchase goods and services. And this is the reason critics say advertising usually creates unwanted needs. You get bombarded by breath-taking ads and find yourself swapping a visa card to purchase an item you didn’t budget for or want to purchase. You just did it the ‘Nike Way’ because it has been endorsed by CR7 or Beyoncé. Another advert reads, “No Cash, No Dash. You better Debus”. This is the beauty of advertising as it breaks the rules of grammar to capture the imaginations of would be customers. You could see by yourself how words have been weaved together to politely tell you “Hey this isn’t a place for you” (if your wallet isn’t fat). No hard feelings. On the contrary, it simply exhibits a plain brutal truth! The other amusing advert back in the days was urging poor people to eat more fish, more eggs and breads. One poet wasn’t impressed by the ad at all. He instead wanted it rephrased to urge people to eat more bloody grass. I heed to his words and that has become my main menu to date. I believe you do the same too given the prevailing situation and under the guise of ‘tunaimarisha afya! hahaha’. A famous RTD announcement during Mwalimu’s era also urged Tanzanians to eat more chickens, eggs, greens, fish and milk. Imagine you come across such an ad and you are holing up in a mud and grass thatched house! Despite its brutal reality and implied meaning, advertising plays an important role in the global economy as it gives consumers the right to choose. This means by providing varied choices to consumers’ goods and services are moved off the shelves and the value chain rolls out in the process. Stuart Henderson Britt, a former editor of the Journal of Marketing, in his own right and perspective boldly put it this way, “Doing business without advertising is like winking at a girl in the dark. You know what you are doing, but no one else does.” What Britt is suggesting is that for business entities to survive they must advertise themselves; they must make known their products and services to target consumers. Apparently, they can only do that after they have set aside a budget for advertising, communications and Public Relations campaigns. Equally, in the media industry advertising is the life blood of both traditional and modern media in the world today. The media depends heavily on advertising for its survival just as advertisers depend on the media to penetrate markets. Ominously, advertising calls for creative as well as innovative minds. This is what makes advertising different from other forms of communication. These are naked and indisputable facts about advertising industry. In recent years, we have witnessed a head on competition from corporate organisations’ that offer similar and/or different services and products for markets such as manufacturers of beverages, mobile phone service providers, training institutions to mention but a few. To win and lead the market, advertisers employ different techniques and tactics to sell their products and services. They have developed advertising, marketing and communication strategies to facilitate and attain desired goals. The strategies provide a roadmap for business transactions and the way communication to the right audience and channel is managed. Undoubtedly, advertising industry today is one of the fastest growing industry and booming part of the Tanzanian economy. It provides employment to thousands of young people and calls for creative and laser-like brains to create adverts that could capture the attention of the busiest man on the street and a lady in the kitchen. The copywriter is usually out of ordinary person who is able to arrange ‘arresting’ words and images to involve the target audience and at the same time appeal to his physical as well as psychological needs. S/he must be able to use rational claims and appeals to persuade would be clients to purchase their products and services. Presentation of the advertisement also counts. Choice of words, language, illustrations, images, sound effects, actualities and characters usually adds colour to the advert. A good copy writer and art director combines, blends and weaves these elements together to create adverts that are clear, easy to follow, memorable and at the same time mind-boggling. The copywriter uses descriptive language that is rich and arresting, employing sex, humor, fantasy, surrealism, or fear to encourage feelings and associations that cannot be raised by the product or service alone and that is the beauty of advertising. Advertising critics must simply understand and appreciate the art that goes with advertising. To pick a few, look at the advertisement of Nivea for women…an extremely sexy and emotionally involving advert…extremely awesome!…think also of a Shack advert…’Get that beast out there…between well-developed pair of that striking girl…” Such is the power of advertising! Equally, messages are skillfully crafted to sell products and services to intended audiences. A copywriter uses unique features of products and services as a unique selling propositions. When the product or service in question has no unique selling proposition, style and choice of words becomes essential in the presentation of the advert. Understandably, adverts can be annoying sometimes to a critical mind. If you critically look at a number of adverts that are being aired in our television and radio stations every day you will note a lot of loop holes. The purpose of analysing ads is usually to “see” the ad in a way you might not have if you hadn’t been looking extremely closely, breaking it down to its component parts—the way it uses language, the kind of images it employs, the way in which the language and images interact with one another, and the way in which the general layout of the ad reinforces its message. Worth noting, advertisers should not abandon the traditional media such as newspapers, radio and television as they will weaken their trinity. Advertisers, Advertising agents and Media need each other to survive the economic storms! Jacks Meena, Freelance Media and Communications Consultant. E-mail:jmmeena@hotmail.com +255 655 280 355/754 283 557