NMB Bank over the weekend flew out ten best loan paying customers to China as a show of appreciation and recognition for their spirit of continuing to bank with the financial institution. Presenting them with tickets to travel to Guanzho, China in a brief ceremony organized in Dar es Salaam recently, NMB Head of Business Banking, Donatus Richard, said that the group’s journey to and fro would be fully funded by the bank including their accommodation, meals and other related expenses as they would be commuting from one place to another in the itinerary. Explaining the criteria used to pick them out of the 200,000 SMEs customers; Mr Donatus noted that one had to be a member of NMB Business Club and engage in Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) and is swift in paying back loans without reminders. He further said one had to be like ambassador who influences others in the market to open an account and be a member of the bank. The Head of Business Banking said the criteria also included selecting business customers, whose remittances included paying government’s payments, taxes pass through the bank, adding that: “In China at the a canton Fair, they would be able to network with others on how to do more business and expand.” He noted that the group would be taken to different industries tours to get to understand international goods standards better and utilize the same knowledge to improve their Tanzanian businesses ranging from which manufacture of hardware, children toys among others. Reached for a comment, one of the beneficiaries beaming with enthusiasm with her ticket, Oliver Kisamba from Musoma, who trades in children clothes and toys, said that she would take the opportunity to learn how to start a factory once back in Tanzania. On his part, Award Mpandila, who resides in Dar es Salaam and engages in motorcycles sales said he would take the opportunity to learn how to grow further in business and also employ other Tanzanians. On behalf of the bank heading with the group to China, NMB bank Acting SMEs and Liabilities Senior Manager, Beatrice Mwambije said that NMB encourages other customers to enroll out in big numbers with the Business Club to get advantages offered plus increased awareness on loan management. She said their motivation to the customers is a strategy of the bank as a plough back and to see into it that customers are served efficiently and reached countrywide. “Business Club teaches a customer on how to register, keep records and practically going to China would be the practical part of learning at the club,” she added. Meanwhile, NMB bank recently donated various medical equipment to Mwanza Regional Referral Hospital of Sekou Toure worth 2m/- That was said by NMB Communication Manager (Government Business Unit) Ms Suma Mwainuru adding that equipment would support mothers and children a community plough back during the bank’s Customer Week. Receiving the assistance, the Regional Referral Hospital in-charge, Dr Bahati Msaki applauded the bank management for the support especially to support elders, children and citizens, who require medical assistance, but have no financial muscles.