TANZANIA Bureau of Standards (TBS), plans to set national standards for child restraints seats used for protecting children while in vehicles in case of accident. Child restraints are seats designed specifically to protect children from injury or death during vehicle collisions- -most commonly these seats are purchased and installed by car owners. TBS Officer responsible for Standards Mr Yona Africa made the revelation on Thursday, noting that currently, there is no such standards as the products were rarely used in the country. "For now there is a need of the child safety seats….. members of the public have been pushing for this and for that matter we have reasons to set the national standards on the child restraints," he said. Mr Africa was speaking during a capacity building session for Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and Road Safety Coalition (RTA) on development of safer driving and mobility improvement of existing laws and policies in Tanzania. The TBS officer said that the plans to set the national standards will be implemented in the next financial year. The move comes as the Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA) is in the process of amending the road safety law and policies to address key risk factors in the road safety. The World Health Organisation (WHO) Global Status Report on Road Safety 2018 indicates that road traffic injuries are now the leading cause of death for children between 5-14 years and young adults between 15-29 years of age. The organisation calls for enacting and enforcing legislation on key behavioural risk factors including seatbelts and child restraints, speed, drink-driving and failing to use motorcycle helmets which are among the critical components of an integrated strategy to prevent road traffic deaths. Currently, 123 countries, representing nearly six billion people, have laws that meet best practice for at least one of the five key behavioural risk factors. Speaking during the event, a member of National Road Safety Council, Mr Henry Bantu, said amendment of the road safety laws and policies is a paramount issue that should be treated with utmost urgency. "The improvement of road safety is a very important issue especially at this time when we are experiencing changes in economic growth which requires improvement of infrastructures," he noted. On the other hand, a member of RTA Ms Irene Mselem said the existing laws and policies in the country are not fit in addressing primary and risk factors including the child restraints. Ms Mselem said the law on road safety should be amended to reflect the requirement of child restraints for children safety. "It should be noted that children are one of the groups of the most vulnerable persons involved in the road crashes---the law should provide for an effective and deterrent penalty in relation to violation of the law in requirement of use of child restraints," she said. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development recognizes that road safety is a prerequisite to ensuring healthy lives, promoting well-being and making cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.