THE completion of Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project along Rufiji River will not only produce enough power but also help reduce the destruction of the environment which is important for water sources in the country, an expert has said. Julius Nyerere Dam is expected to produce 2,115 megawatts of electricity when completed in three year’s period. An expert in ground water resources and Environment from the Department of Geology, University of Dar es Salaam Prof Hudson Nkotagu, told the ‘DailyNews’ that Tanzanians have to thank President John Magufuli for his decision and being strong to make sure the project is implemented. The expert said that with construction of the dam and tree felling being minimal was a very good strategy for conservation of the environment so what was needed now is to make sure small and affordable electricity cookers are made. Prof Nkotagu said when there will be a lot of cheap power, even people in the villages where electrification is underway, will be able to use power. “Once the dam is complete and there’s electricity, our environment will be saved. Everybody is having power, people will say this man was right but we should have seen it. Why do we have to criticize him?” the expert remarked. Prof Nkotagu added that today, over 373 or almost 400 hectares of trees are being felled per year for making charcoal and firewood and unsustainable agricultural practices. “When they cut those trees what it means that rain water cannot sink into the ground. So when it rains water goes straight to the rivers then into the ocean. When you cutting down trees you are risking not getting enough rain. Secondly you are risking not getting enough water even if it rains as water sinks into the ground,” he added. Prof Nkotagu said in 2001, one person was taking about 2700 cubic meters of water per year but today it is about 2100 cubic meters; which means that the volume of water is decreasing for various reasons, including environment destruction. He also urged for training of water resources experts who will help the country in the management of the resource. “We need to train many people to be able to manage our water resources very scientifically. Experts in water resources will tell us how much water we have in our ocean, lakes and rivers,” Prof Nkotagu said. It is estimated that 0.4 percent of the global water is surface water and 30.1 percent is ground water.