FOURTY four persons charged with economic cases worth billions of shillings, who were yesterday brought in court under amnesty granted by President John Magufuli failed to complete the plea-bargaining process for lack of communications between the prosecution and defence. Only eight accused persons, whose cases involved a sum of 154m/- managed to complete the process legally under the plea-bargaining provisions at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court. They were Bui Thi Yen Nhi, a Vietnamese and Yasin Katela, a local businessman. The rest are Sergeant Ally Chibwana (47), a TPDF staff, who resides at Kongowe, Corporal Swahiba (38), a resident of Kitunda, Police Constable (PC) Elidaima Paranjo (38), who lives at Kivule, PC Simon (28), residing at Tabata, PC Dickson (36), who stays at Kitunda and PC Hamza (28), who lives at Ukonga. The accused persons pleaded guilty to the new charges they were charged with by the prosecution in consideration to the presidential pardon and pleabargaining agreements reached. However, Chinese Cheng Guo, charged with dealing in government trophies worth over 200m/- polluted the process. Having being brought before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi, the accused recanted the letter he had written to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), alleging that he had not indicated any desire to plead guilty to the charges he is facing“I wrote a letter to the DPP complaining of inordinate delay of investigations into the case and, thus, I sought for forgiveness. I did not indicate my readiness to plead guilty,” the accused told the court. The magistrate adjourned the matter and other cases to Monday. Among those who completed the process was Yasin Katela, whose case was conducted by Principal Resident Magistrate ThomasSimba. Having accepted the prosecution’s offer under the presidential pardon, the accused was convicted on his own plea of guilty to one count of money laundering. The count related to disguising the origin of ownership of a house situated in Mwanza City for the purpose of helping his friend, the former Chief Accountant with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Geofrey Gugai . The magistrate sentenced him to a minimum sentence of either paying 100m/- or go to jail for three years in default of paying the fine. Katela paid the fine and would be released anytime. Money laundering count attracts a maximum sentence of 500m/- or 20 years imprisonment upon conviction. In the same judgment, the magistrate gave an order for forfeiture to the government, of the house in question. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Wanjah Hamza, the Vietnamese confessed to one count out of three of dealing in government trophies worth 4900 US dollars (11,000,500/-) after reaching into a plea-bargaining agreement with the prosecution. The magistrate sentenced him to a lenient sentence of paying 22m/- fine or go to jail for 15 years in default, instead of paying a fine of ten times the value of the government trophies, 98 lion claws, 21 lion teeth and 22 pieces of lion flying bones, which were involved in the trial. Before Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo, the prosecution dropped two counts of money laundering and leading organized crime against Sergeant Chibwana, Corporal Swahiba, PC Paranjo, PC Simon, PC Dickson and PC Hamza after entering into a plea barging agreement. Under the arrangement, the accused persons remained with only one count relating to theft of 2180 litres of jet fuel worth 4,647,760/-, property of Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) committed on July 30, 2019 at Julius Nyerere International Airport Terminal II in Ilala District. Having pleaded guilty to the charge, the magistrate proceeded to convict them on their own plea of guilty and sentenced each to pay 500,000/- and pay the 4,647,760/-, as loss compensation to the government. The accused also forfeited to the government property; the fuel in question.