PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has put Mkalama District Council Executive Director (DED) Mr Godfrey Sanga on the spotlight after directing the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) in Singida Region to investigate him over alleged misuse of public funds. The allegations involve paying himself travel allowances in March this year but not travelling, and ordering his subordinates to sign payment vouchers and subsequently paying some money as a token of appreciation. He furthermore allegedly paid himself dues prematurely and sanctioning for his car to be taken for maintenance without documentation. According to the prime minister, the DED claimed payment vouchers amounting to 1.3m/- that the civil servants signed, purporting to show that the money was required at the Regional Commissioner’s office. The Prime Minister gave the directives yesterday when he addressed Mkalama District Council’s councillors. During the meeting, the PM asked Singida Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS) Dr Angelina Lutambi if the claims made by DED were true but it turned out that they asked District Council treasurer Mr Peniel Mbula on the financial malpractice, he also denied knowledge as he was on official duty in Singida on the material day. Four civil servants who signed the payment vouchers testified that they received 30,000/- each as a token of appreciation. It was revealed during the meeting that the District Executive Director paid himself in advance dues amounting to 1,090,000/- being payment for house rent, 230,000/- power bills, 260,000/- for communication. It was further explained that the DED sanctioned for painting one of the government cars with registration number STK 913 at the cost of 7m/- without any written instruction. Earlier on Mr Majaliwa directed the District Commissioners (DCs) of Itigi and Ikungi along with their District Executive Directors (DEDs) to conduct a crackdown with the aim of identifying children loitering at bus terminals instead of being in school. Mr Majaliwa issued the directive on various occasions yesterday while addressing public rallies. According to him, the government has eradicated all contributions which had to be made by parents or guardians to support the education sector, and so, there was no reason why some should not be attending school. “All the nuisance contributions have been eradicated, and so, parents should spend money on buying school items like uniforms, shoes, bags and exercise books while also ensuring that children have access to proper meals. “The government is committed to see every child attending school; we therefore can’ t tolerate seeing children engaging in petty trade in trading centres, ” said Mr Majaliwa. He directed the DEDs accompanied by the Officer Commanding District (OCD) to visit the small towns and carry out the crackdown. Similarly, the officials should identify and arrest parents for questioning over letting their children loiter around instead of being in school. He disclosed that the initiatives of the government to ensure that each village had a primary school which had a pre-primary class component was meant to ensure that children of aged between four and five were enrolled. In another development, while in Ikungi District, the PM saluted DC Mr Edward Mpogolo and the DED Mr Justice Kijazi for their commitment on putting the interests of the people in the forefront. “Ikungi is the only district whereby its DC and DED work and speak the same language…you should maintain the good spirit for other leaders to emulate from the work you are doing,” observed the PM.