THE joint meeting of ministers responsible for environment, natural resources and tourism has called for the removal of some of items in the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Ministers and other senior officials who attended the joint meeting of 16 countries at Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) resolved that since member states are sovereign, they should decide of their destiny. CITES seeks to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. The Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, said that Tanzania, as is the case with other SADC member states, are safeguarding natural resources but do not agree on the set conditions. CITES placed restrictions on trade of natural resources, and in a unanimous decision, SADC ministers and officials responsible for environment, natural resources and tourism spelt out that the bloc will not agree on new conditions barring trading animals such as antelopes, elephants and rhino, meaning that SADC member countries would not fully benefit from its resources. Dr Kigwangalla said that African countries host about 80 percent of the said animals, and so it was fair that the decision on them be left to the region. He said that those who are against SADC are out to frustrate its missions but will not succeed. CITES provides legal mechanisms for the sustainable international sale of raw ivory, and other valuable wildlife commodities, some of the 16 countries’ representatives feel that some sections of the Protocol were incorporated, contrary to the right procedures of the protocol itself, reliable sources have revealed. CITES is an international agreement between governments, with the objective to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. It was drafted as a result of a resolution adopted in 1963 at a meeting of members of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The text of the Convention was finally agreed at a meeting of representatives of 80 countries in Washington, D.C., the United States of America, on 3 March 1973, and entered in force on 1 July 1975. In order to effectively protect wildlife, SADC developed the Protocol on Wildlife Conservation and Law Enforcement in 1999. The Protocol emphasizes the need for regionally-agreed approaches to conservation, management, and the enforcement of illegal uses of wildlife. Tanzania is one of 16 SADC partner states that implement the Protocol on Wildlife Conservation and Law Enforcement. The Protocol also promotes national and regional capacity building and the facilitation of community–based wildlife management. CITES is an agreement to which states and regional economic integration organizations adhere voluntarily. States that have agreed to be bound by the Convention are known as Parties. It does not take the place of national laws, but rather it provides a framework to be respected by each Party that has to adopt its own domestic legislation to ensure that CITES is implemented at the national level. The SADC senior officials will present an agenda and proposals to the joint ministerial meeting that will take place here this Friday.