TAIFA Stars skipper, Mbwana Samatta has admitted that the return UEFA Champions League match against Liverpool will be the toughest for his KRC Genk history. The two teams meet again on Tuesday next week at Liverpool’s Anfield Stadium for the reverse match after the first leg ended 4-1 in favour of the defending champions, hence Genk need to produce a classic performance to grab vital away points. Packed in group G, the Belgium side are yet to test victory in the prestigious competition following two defeats and one draw making them to sit at the bottom of the four-team table with one point. Napoli lead the table with seven points followed by Liverpool who have six points whereas the third slot is occupied by Australian side Red Bull who have bagged 3 points from one triumph. “To be honest, the game at Anfield will be tough in the history of KRC Genk because they (Liverpool) will play at ease since they won the previous match plus enjoying full backing from their home fans,” Samatta said in an interview. He added that Liverpool is among the favourites from their group to sail through into the last sixteen of the contest, but insisted that anything in football can happen hence they have not yet lost courage. Commenting on his goal he scored during the match but was later ruled out by the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) for offside, Samatta said he is probably not lucky with the VAR. “It was the third goal for me to be rejected by the VAR this season. I was happy to have scored the goal against top team Liverpool but in the end, it did not stand. I think I am unlucky with the VAR,” Samatta who captained his team during the match said. He added: “When the match was stopped to wait VAR judgement, I was praying for the goal to be allowed because it was going to be one of the long lasting memories in my life.” He, however, said he will anyhow remember the goal for being rejected. Samatta has gone into the history books for becoming the first Tanzanian to play in the UEFA Champions League and there is still enough room for him to continue rising high as far as his professional football career is concerned