AS Tanzania seeks to conduct thorough research on viability of emerging technologies, experts in the industry have urged African countries to embrace the new systems which they say are crucial for data integrity and confidentiality. Presenting a paper during the Leadership Workshop on the Fourth Industrial Revolution, technologists from a Swiss firm, Société Industrielle et Commerciale de Produits Alimentaires (SICPA), Marco Aloe and Philippe Thévoz, explained that the technology is also vital for curbing tampering and counterfeiting. The Swiss firm, through its local subsidiary SICPA Tanzania has been contracted by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to provide software and hardware for electronic tax stamps (ETS) management system for all products which are subjected to excise duty. ETS, whose second phase was rolled out in July after the first phase in January, this year, has already registered significant successes which have enabled the taxman to increase revenue collections from excisable goods. According to experts in the digital industry, emerging technologies currently taking the world by storm include artificial intelligence (AI), block-chain, robotics, data sciences and 3-D printing, among others. It has however been noted that many African countries lack adequate data management systems particularly for voting, registration of births, land administration, e-commerce and agriculture, among others. Promoters of the technology explain for instance that block-chain, which consists of a decentralized and nonfalsifiable register, allows transactions to be validated almost instantly and without a central control unit. Through the presentation at the workshop, the specialists in their paper titled; “Block-chain Pioneers... Beyond the Hype”, said for starters Tanzania could use the technology for registration of birth certificates and businesses. In addition, it can also be used for notarization and issuance of electronic identification cards, among others. The workshop was organised by Sahara Ventures, the Embassy of Switzerland in Tanzania and SICPA as part of the Sahara Sparks week which focused on the role of Africa in the digital economy. “With these systems in place governments will be able to enforce integrity of government of data processing, mitigate insider threats and combating fake data. It is also cost saving and does not rely on third parties,” they explained. However, speaking during the opening ceremony of the events, Tanzania’s Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, was clear-cut that policy makers and other stakeholders should reflect on preparedness of the country to take advantage of digital economy. “Certainly, technological transformation is occurring at a faster speed than one would imagine, and this speed is expected to increase with time,” the minister admitted. Adding; “We need to ask ourselves on how these changes will impact lives of our people in villages, towns and cities. Since the impact could be either positive or negative, our preparedness and a clear understanding of the envisaged technological transformation are very important”. Prof Ndalichako pointed that the government of Tanzania is committed to promote technological transformation in accelerating socio-economic development once the country fully understand how the emerging technologies can be used to provide innovative solutions relevant for local context. The Deputy Permanent Secretary (responsible for communication portfolio) in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Dr Jim Yonazi, said Tanzania has been looking into block-chain with hopes of having a better understanding of the technology. Dr Yonazi stated that much as the government is conducting studies of the technology, academicians and researchers should also undertake their on studies formulate laws, regulations and policies to guide the emerging technology.