TANZANIA Association of Accountants (TAA), in collaboration with some Regional Commissioners (RCs) yesterday launched Accountants Desk in Dar es Salaam as a forum that would offer business skills to business people from their pool of professionals. Making the revelation in a press conference in the city, TAA Vice-Chairman, Odemari Rushita said the forum would officially start on 2nd November in regions of Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Mwanza, Mbeya and Moshi Municipality. He said that the Accountants Desk would comprise different stakeholders of Accountants, Auditors, Boards’ Advisors and Business Consultants as well as various agents from the government skilled in several aspects, who would offer knowledge to the business people and other public members freely. Mr Rushita urged the public especially traders to exploit the opportunity for their businesses developments and growth of the country’s economy. He said that during the show, different entrepreneurs would showcase their wares, naming them as Computers which are Accounts’ programmed, bank and insurance services, land registration and other community services among others. The Vice-Chairman noted that the regions will represent zones of Lake, Central, Northern and Southern areas, adding that those targeted would also include those already in business and the ones willing to try a hand. “I appeal to fishermen, farmers, employees and livestock keepers, as well as self-employed people and such like to exploit the opportunity and consult the pool of professionals for the growth of their business that would be freely given” added the Accountant. He said that they target to reach 10,000 traders in the five zones and 200 service providers. On his part, TAA Director of Projects and Programs, Ezekiel Omar said that the forum would also be attended by financial institutions to offer skills on business and money matters. “There will be Revenue professionals (in a parent reference to Tanzania Revenue Authority-TRA officials) , National Social Security Fund, Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA), Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), and others related in trade affairs,” further said Mr Omar.