TAIFA Stars Head Coach, Etienne Ndairagije is keen to beat Sudan today and repeat what Brazilian Marcio Maximo did ten years ago when he led Tanzania into maiden African Nations Championship (CHAN) finals. Beating Sudan’s Desert Hawks will enable Tanzania play in the CHAN Finals for the second time, almost ten years ago after the team qualified under the Brazilian in 2009. The Burundian tactician took over Taifa Stars from the Nigerian Emmanuel Amunike who led Tanzania into the AFCON finals in Egypt after missing it for 38 years. By eliminating Sudan, who were Tanzania’s last hurdle in 2009, Ndayiragije will see Stars appear again at CHAN Finals after ten years. Stars face a daunting task against former Simba SC Croatian Coach, Zdravko Logarusic side after losing 1-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first leg, so they need victory of more than one goal without conceding a goal to qualify to the finals of the tournament designed exclusively for footballers playing in their domestic leagues. However, Stars players who arrived in Sudan early this week after playing a buildup match against Rwanda, are reportedly in a high morale and looking to overcome the home deficit by beating the Desert Hawks in front of their supporters. The most experienced player in Star squad, Erasto Nyoni disclosed that with the preparation they had makes him believe they are going to post positive results and cruise into the Chan finals. Do they clear Sudan hurdle, Taifa Stars will become one of three envoys from East and Central African zone to qualify for the 6th edition of CHAN finals this time hosted by Cameroon. Apart from Nyoni, Stars shot stopper Metacha Mnata and defender Boniface Maganga are also confident their team will perform well in Sudan claiming they are well prepared for the mission and what remained is to execute their job perfectly. “We know we are going to face a big challenge as the match is going to tough, but the vital thing here is to post a win which will bring us to CHAN finals in Cameroon,” disclosed the players. Hosts Cameroon have automatically qualified for the biennial tournament that has been won by the Democratic Republic of Congo (twice), Tunisia, Libya and Morocco. But today’s clash is going to be tough and competitive as the hosts Sudan are eyeing for their second consecutive and third overall place at the finals of the tournament and coach Logarusic is said to have kept faith with the same squad that played the first leg, with Al Hilal forward Walid Bekhit and Al Ahly’s Shendy goalkeeper Isaac Adam the new faces. Logarusic disclosed that the preparations have gone well and that the first leg is history now and they are focused on today’s game and using our home advantage and the support of their fans to get the result that will grant us a place at next year’s final tournament. Three teams will representatives the Central-East Zone in the final tournament next year in Cameroon.