AFTER knocking out Uganda of CECAFA U-20 Championship, Tanzania Mainland U-20 side face Sudan in today’s first semifinal at Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu, Uganda. The team’s Head coach, Zuberi Katwila disclosed yesterday in Gulu that after outstanding job in their game against Uganda’s Hippos, his boys are ready for today’s clash against the Sudanese who booked their ticket to the semis after edging their neighbours South Sudan 1-0 in the quarterfinals on courtesy of a late own goal. Katwila said he is aware that the match is going to be tough, but his squad is ready to play under any condition whether it rains or not to post positive results knowing exactly that nothing else, but victory will see them at the final stage. “I am grateful to the Almighty God for eliminating hosts Uganda in the tense quarterfinal match, We know that we have a tough match ahead of us in the semifinals against Sudan, but we are looking to do our best by utilising all of our resources in the team,” he disclosed. Speaking about the two players who were doubtful to play after picking injuries during their game against Hippos , Katwila said he is hopeful the duo will be part of the squad that will take on Sudan today due to their speedy recovery. On his part Sudan head coach, Muhammed Mousa said they respect their opponents, but they do not fear them. He added their game plan to defend as the entire team will be back to ensure opponents are put at a bay. “From the first day, the confidence in our players was the strong factor. We built on that. And the target was one to win this competition” said Mousa. Commenting about their game against Sudan, Tanzanian striker, Kelvin John said they should not be content with the victory over Uganda but play and win today’s clash against Sudan. Speaking via a telephone interview from Uganda, John said ousting the hosts from the competition was a positive gesture but reiterated that the battle is not yet over. “We need not to celebrate a lot because we have another important match on Wednesday (today), which is equally important to win,” he said. He added that he was pleased to score the winning goals which he said came as a result of perfect teamwork. “We played as a team something which contributed to the victory and if we continue playing in such way, we are going to reach far,” John who has so far netted six goals said. Heroes produced a dramatic performance to score two quick goals in the final stages of the match courtesy of the team’s danger man Kelvin John to win the tie against Sudan who brushed aside their brothers South Sudan 1-0 in another last eight battle held at Pece War Memorial in Gulu on Sunday. Andrew Albert Simchimba was also on the score sheet for Tanzania as he contributed a brace for his side. The other last four matches will see Kenya who hammered Burundi 2-1 taking on Eritrea who smashed Zanzibar 5-0 on the same day at the FUFA Technical Centre, Njeru (artificial surface). The final will be played on Saturday, 5th October 2019 at the Pece Stadium.