THE government has rolled out Post-Harvest Management (PHM) curriculum in 14 agricultural universities and colleges in the country. The move seeks to shield Tanzanians from hunger pangs, which have more often than not greeted the country in the form of Post-harvest losses (PHLs). Fielding questions from journalists here yesterday, Chief Agricultural Officer in the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Sadoti Makwaruzi revealed that his office was working on modalities of hosting trainings to academicians on the implementation of the new PHM curriculum. “While we have already trained agricultural extension officers, it is high time we start engaging the academicians on PHM,” explained Mr Makwaruzi, who is also the country’s focal person of the Grain Postharvest Loss Prevention Project (GPLP) on the sidelines of the regional learning workshop on the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) Sub Saharan Africa’s PHM Portfolio. The Chief Agricultural Officer also underscored the importance of engaging more Tanzanians on PHLs, saying the ministry was weighing options and exploring on opening zonal platforms to ensure that there is more awareness about the scourge. PHLs are said to be claiming more than 30 per cent of grains each harvesting season in Tanzania. This is equivalent to 1.3 million metric tons of maize and other food crops which go to waste due to poor storage methods. In Tanzania, studies have revealed that PHLs range between 15 and 40 per cent, depending on the type of crop. “If they go unchecked, PHLs could affect multiple value chains, posing a threat to overall food security,” he added. Commenting on GPLP’s sustainability, a project manager in charge of Nutrition and Food Systems Division, Economic and Social Development Department at the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), Ms Mireille Totobesola said the UN agency was willing to support strategies that have since been formulated by some African countries in managing PHLs. “We will continue to support such initiatives through mobilisation of resources and training of agricultural extension officers,” she said. Ms Totobesola added that her office had launched a website that will serve as a platform of sharing useful information and updates among agricultural experts and other practitioners, with a view of reducing food losses and achieving food security. Implemented by Helvetas Tanzania at a tune of 11.5bn ($ 5 mn/-), the seven year project seeks to reduce postharvest losses in food grains in the country as well as improving food security and incomes of targeted farming households. According to Helvetas Country Director, Dr Felix Bachmann, the project has seen the government and development partners engaging through policy dialogues and training of agricultural extension officers. “We hope Tanzanian farmers will carry on with the good work even as the project draws to a close,” he said. According to FAO, approximately 1.3 billion tonnes of food is lost or wasted every year. This amounts to about $ 68 0bn/- in industrialised countries and $10bn/- in developing countries.