ASIMWE Ruganyoisa, a Petroleum engineer working for Shell Tanzania believes hard work and a bit of luck have been instrumental in her interesting and successful career journey with Shell. With the training and experience gained working for the company, she sees a bright future for her in the oil and gas industry. Asimwe has a Bachelor of Science degree (Bsc), in Mining Engineering from the University of Dar es Salaam and a master’s degree of Science (MSc), in Petroleum Engineering from Heriot Watt University. Her journey with Shell started four years ago when she joined the company’s graduate program, then called the BG graduate program. She says one of the things that attracted her to the program was the guarantee of at least two international placements. Her first assignment was in the UK and while she was there, BG merged with Royal Dutch Shell. “When BG merged with Shell, I joined Shell’s even bigger but equivalent graduate program” she says, adding “since then I have been able to travel to and work in multiple countries such as Bolivia, Russia, USA and the Netherlands.” Development programs for staff are top priority in Shell. In addition to international work assignments, Asimwe has had opportunities to undertake on the job trainings. According to Asimwe, her role involves building models of the hydrocarbons in the ground and simulating how the hydrocarbons would move and behave in the rock once the well was drilled, how they would enter the well and how they would move up and into the pipelines that will transport them to the production facility. Doing this helps the company determine how much of the hydrocarbons it can recover and consider different optimisation methods that will increase output in the safest and most environmentally conscious manner for the benefit of the country. Her expertise and professional discipline have helped her achieve international exposure and technical experience in her field. Asimwe enjoys what she does very much. “As my niece likes to say, ‘You play computer games all day but instead of Mario, you play with Oil’. Although that is an extreme over simplification, I do enjoy what I do as much as gamers do, if not more”. She says. She says as she moves to her next role, she plans on using the experience gained thus far to bring more value to the Tanzanian LNG project and see the local oil and gas industry make its mark in the world’s cleaner energy future. Shell Tanzania, which is an operator for two offshore deep-water blocks (block 1&4), has had very successful drilling campaigns in the last eight years achieving 23Trillion Cubic Feet (TCF), of gas in place. It is working with the Government of Tanzania through TPDC and other government authorities, to find the most productive, effective and cost-efficient way of developing the LNG project in Tanzania. Asimwe is, soon going to start pursuing her 12-month master’s degree program in business administration (MBA), at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, Netherlands. She is very thankful to her employer as it had always been her dream to work for a multinational energy company and she counts herself extremely lucky to be part of Shell. “My time with the company has been an amazing experience where I was given many opportunities to grow as an engineer and as a person,” she explains, adding that Shell cares for and invests a lot in its people, not only through the countless in-house technical training but by offering many industry leading benefits. Shell ensures there are open discussions on things like health, safety, diversity and inclusion. I also love that every four years, employees get a chance to apply to another role anywhere within the global company.      