A JUDICIAL dialogue involving Chief Justices of all African Union (AU) partner states is underway in Kampala with President Yoweri Museveni calling for a holistic approach to address human rights challenges. President Museveni said human rights could only be respected in Africa through economic growth and ending human oppression and the oppression of humans by nature. He called on state organs - the judiciary, intelligentsia, academia and others to work together to get rid of problems in many jurisdictions that he said emanated from the application of bourgeois legal concepts. In his opening speech of the fourth judicial dialogue organised by the African Court on Human and Peoples’ Rights (AfCHPR), President Museveni said legal concepts should relate to practices of particular societies. The three-day meeting seeks to identify pressing human rights issues facing Africa and identity the role of the judiciary in dealing with them. Delegates include heads of constitutional courts, judges and members of various human rights courts and tribunals and selected diplomats in Africa, America and Europe. President Museveni insisted that challenges related to the rights to vote, assembly, freedom of speech, food, sanitation, safe water, shelter, clothing, livelihoods, education, health and others would only be addressed depending on the capacity of each society/ nation to deal with them. “All challenges related to those rights can be addressed through economic growth and the effectiveness of the judiciary and other state organs and the participation of stakeholders. There is a need to understand that legal and economic rights go together. By growing our economies we create jobs, make our people earn a living and governments get adequate revenue to offer social services,” said he noted. He explained that for justice to be accessed by all there were challenges the judiciary should address like getting rid of case backlogs and determine cases facing factories or employees and employers instead of dealing only with individuals quarrelling at a bar. He said Africa should address challenges breeding refugees and expressed his concern that although the UN had thousands of soldiers in the DRC, more refugees were still flocking to Uganda. AfCHPR President Justice Sylvain Ore hailed President Museveni for his commitment to the cause of human rights in Africa and that his achievements spoke for themselves as evidenced by laws on fighting against money laundering, domestic violence, prohibition of female genital mutilation (FGM) and by establishing the Equal Opportunity Commission.