PRESIDENT John Magufuli has called upon Tanzanians to exercise extreme caution on the misleading reports on the outbreak of epidemics in the country as they are fabricated for the deliberate objectives of tarnishing the country’s image before the international community, especially foreign investors. The Head of State sounded the caution yesterday, during the first day of his tour of Songwe Region whereby, among other activities, he laid the foundation stone for a water project in Mantengu area and inaugurated a coffee processing plant, GDM Company Limited in Mbozi District . President Magufuli said the fabricated reports on epidemics circulating in the public domain in the country was part of the imperialists’ tactics to undermine the achievements attained by the fifth phase government in various sectors. The President’s remark came just a day after the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu, dismissed as false, circulating should expect criticisms, including epidemic rumors ,” President Magufuli said. He said Tanzanians and other African nations should ask themselves why countries like DRC and others rich in gold and diamonds were facing serious epidemics. “If you want to exploit someone you must first threaten him ... these are imperialistic tactics especially when a country records some progress,” he said. He noted that Tanzania attained political independence but not economic independence, and that was why it continued being exploited. He, however, said that he revoked the appointment of former National Institute for Medical Research ( NIMR) Director General Dr Mwele Malecela after reporting that a Zika virus threat was growing in the country . Dr Mwele was fired in December 2016 and replaced by Prof Yunus Mgaya . “ I decided to sack her at midnight because I was sure that the epidemic was not reported in the country,” he said. He said such reports were not healthy to the nation because even investors will avoid coming to Tanzania to invest and other sectors will also be affected, such as tourism. “Tanzanians should understand that these are imperialistic tactics and some people are not happy with what we have achieved so far ,” he explained further. While in Songwe Region, President Magufuli directed Minister for Water and Irrigation Prof Makame Mbarawa to take actions against underperforming contractors in water projects. He said that the government was determined to ensure that water supply in the region was improved, and that it was pointless to continue working with contractors with poor performance. President Magufuli commended the local investor GDM Company Limited for creating a market for coffee produced in the region and employment for Tanzanian youth. “Almost 90 per cent of coffee produced in the region is bought by this company; this manifests a patriotic spirit,” he said.