THE National Environment Management Council (NEMC) yesterday told vendors of drinking water packed in translucent plastic bags that they were selling substandard water and in banned bags. NEMC Director-General, Dr Samuel Gwamaka, told journalists who were following up the implementation of the government’s ban on plastic carrier bags that in relation to that issue NEMC expected to promote entrepreneurship, but also ensure the law was observed to protect people’s health and environment. “Our council’s duty has two dimensions: one is to promote strictly government policies to enhance people’s welfare and two is to observe strictly the law. We give necessary support to entrepreneurs as a way of promoting the government’s industrialisation and trade policies, but we also have to ensure all entrepreneurs observe the laws of the land. We cannot mince words on this,” Dr Gwamaka emphasised. The MD said people selling water or other items in plastic bags must go to offices of the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and be told the right materials to use for their businesses. In Dar es Salaam petty traders sell unsafe water popularly known as ‘kandoro’ using banned plastic bags. Dr Gwamaka said to implement the government’s ban, NEMC regularly reviewed various aspects surrounding the ban and then decided on what to do when it was the right time to do so. “We are very sympathetic to struggling vendors selling drinking water and other items. But the message we send is that using banned plastic bags is illegal and should be stopped henceforth,” he warned, adding that Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan had in the past also warned of the illegality of bags and their use. He hinted that NEMC inspectors were visiting areas to see whether or not the laws were being observed. “Culprits risk fines or imprisonment or both,” he cautioned. Dr Gwamaka also warned producers and distributors of carrier bags that did not meet TBS standards that they were also breaking the law. He explained that a consignment of banned carrier bags was held at Dar es Salam Port because of illegal importation and not meeting TBS standards. He said a plastic bag must carry the name, trade mark and address of the producer, a TBS logo and must not be less than 70gsm. NEMC Director of Legal Department Bernard Kongoza noted that users of banned bags risked arrest and prosecution. “We work closely with the police at district level. So, any violation of government order will lead to arrest and prosecution. We appeal to all people to observe NEMC directives,” he said.