SIX people, including freelancers with two mobile phone service providing companies, Tigo and Halotel, appeared before a Dar es Salaam Court on Friday charged with several counts relating to fraudulent use of communication network and occasioning 900m/- loss to the government. Before Resident Magistrate, Vick Mwaikambo, the accused persons were Adam Kionga, alias Said Kionga and Lameck Alute, both Freelance of Halotel and Tigo, respectively, Eliud Patrick, Rashid Midole and Michael Buholo, alias Mbonimpaye, all businessmen and Yusuph Saninga, a clerk. Other counts include conspiracy, operating electronic communications without a license, use of unapproved electronic equipment, importation and installation of electronic communication equipment without a license, use of unapproved electronic equipment and money laundering. They were not allowed to enter plea to the charges because they fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate ordered them to go to remand because the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain any application, including that relating to bail. The case was adjourned to October 24, 2019, for mention. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution led by State Attorneys Jacqueline Nyantory and Faraji Nguka, have not been completed. Prosecuting, the prosecution told the court that on diverse dates between January 1 and September 2019 at various places within Dar es Salaam, all accused persons conspired together to commit an offence of fraudulent use of network facility. It is alleged that within the same period and place, Saninga unlawfully imported into United Republic of Tanzania some electronic communication equipment, which are Gateway Modem Transmitter, Router Voices over Internet Protocol (VoIP), gateways with different serial numbers and wireless routers. Others are Raspbery, Sim Box, among others. The court heard that such importations of the equipment were made without having a license issued by Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). According to the prosecution, within the same period in Dar es Salaam, Saninga and Buholo installed the said equipment without license issued by the Authority. The prosecution alleged further that between January 11 and September 15, 2019 at various places within the city, all accused persons unlawfully operated an international gateway for receiving and transmitting international telecommunication traffic without a license issued by the TCRA. It is alleged by the prosecution that with the same period at various places in Dar es Salaam, all accused persons, with intent to avoid rates payable for receiving or transmitting international incoming traffic, dishonestly transmitted international incoming traffic. The prosecution further told the court that within the same period, the accused persons unlawfully used the equipment without the approval of the TCRA. Between January 11 and September 15, 2019 within the City of Dar es Salaam, knowingly and by their willful acts, all accused persons allegedly caused the government of the United Republic of Tanzania and TCRA to suffer a pecuniary loss of 963,585,000/-. Saninga was charged alone with one count of money laundering. The prosecution alleged that on March 29, 2019 at KCB Bank, Uhuru Branch within Ilala District, he transferred a sum of 4,740 US dollars, equivalent to 11,298,863/98 from Western Union to a Chinese Liwen Su residing at Shenzhen in China. It is alleged that while making such transfer, the accused knew that the said money was proceeds of a predicate offence of fraudulent use of network facility.