EAST African region is projected to remain the strongest growing region in Africa ahead of other regions seen to be struggling against economic headwinds. The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) has tipped East African economies to surge ahead other regional blocs this year, as the slump in oil and commodity prices hits North, Western and Southern countries. ICAEW said in its latest report that East African economies will post a GDP growth rate of 6.3 per cent this year, higher than the projected growth in North and West Africa, which is estimated at 2.8 per cent and 3.4 per cent respectively. “While still expected to remain the strongest growing region on the continent, East Africa is projected to record a slightly lower real GDP growth rate of 6.3per cent this year compared to 2018,” said ICAEW in its latest economic update which was commissioned by ICAEW and written by Oxford Economics subsidiary NKC African Economics. North Africa’s real GDP growth rate is forecast to slow to 2.8 per cent in 2019, due to oil production disruptions in Libya which compounded the effect on the region’s other economies of weak eurozone demand. Southern Africa is expected to record a sluggish pace of 1.3 per cent, as the region grapples with policy uncertainty, effects of cyclones, rainfall deficit and power rationing. “Southern Africa is forecast to keep struggling (+1.3 per cent in 2019) as the region’s economic anchor, South Africa, is expected to show nearly-flat growth because of policy uncertainty, concerns over debt-landed parastatals and high unemployment.” “Regional GDP growth for Central & West Africa is forecast at 3.4 per cent in 2019 and incorporates the impact of the Nigerian economy’s slow start to the year, as pipeline damage curtailed oil production. “Our growth forecast for the Franc zone this year is 4.7 per cent, due to a structurally low international oil price environment, which continues to weigh on growth in the region’s oil exporters.” In April this year, African Development Bank (AfDB) described East Africa as the most successful economic region on the continent as it was pulling ahead of the continent’s other regions economically. AfDB reported 2018 GDP growth of 5.7 per cent in East Africa, 4.9 per cent in North Africa, 3.3 per cent in West Africa, 2.2 per cent in Central Africa and 1.2 per cent in Southern Africa. It projected that growth to continue at 5.9 per cent in the east, with Ethiopia expected to be at the forefront with 8.2 per cent, Rwanda at 7.8 per cent, Tanzania 6.6 per cent, Djibouti 5.9 per cent and Uganda 5.3 per cent. East Africa’s growth was actually slightly down from the 5.9 per cent seen in 2017, but the outlook remains good. In particular the industrial and service sectors in Ethiopia and Rwanda, and the service and agricultural sectors in Tanzania and Kenya have driven growth, although the report noted that agriculture is a vulnerable sector to rely on due to the impact which weather can have, and oil and gas, another key industry, remains at risk from fluctuating international commodities prices.