CORRUPTION, illicit drugs business, road accidents, land conflicts, abuse of children and women, and decreasing nonrenewable natural resources are big challenges that still face Zanzibar, Second Vice-President, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi said before the House session was adjourned to November 27, this year. In his traditional speech before moving a motion to adjourn the House after two weeks, the vice president appealed to members of the public, private and public institutions to strengthen the war against the menaces. He said the government has been taking different measures to address the challenges, but public support remains important in controlling the problems which undermine development of the country, including affecting the young people who are drug addicts. "We have strengthened Zanzibar Anti-corruption and Economic Crime Authority (ZAECA), increased search for drug dealers, improved enforcement of road safety regulations, and hold some leaders accountable for causing land conflicts. We ask individuals to play their part by exposing the criminals," said Amb Iddi. He said that it is possible to end the problems, including stopping violence against children and women in the country, to speed up development programs for the benefit of people who remain eager to see positive changes. The second vice-president also reminded leaders to comply with the Zanzibar Public Leaders' Ethics Commission (ZAPLEC) regulations, which requires them to submit filled assets and liabilities declaration forms to Ethics Secretariat commission. He also asked constructors, investors, and people intending to build houses, "We may run short of nonrenewable resources- mainly sand and stones if we ignore observing guidelines. We must follow the guidelines to save the remaining natural resources." In his speech, Amb Iddi also asked legislators to go back in their respective constituencies to fulfil the promises they made during the past general elections and the party manifesto (2015/2020) before it is too late, and also account for the Constituency Development Fund (CDF) to qualify for the next fund. Mr Iddi also commended members of the public for proper planning and use of money provided under the 'Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF)' to get out of abject poverty, and that plans are underway to have all villages, excluded in the first and second phase of the program, to be included in the next phase of the TASAF III project supported by development partners led by the World Bank.