THERE has been a tag of war on whether District Executive Directors (DEDs) are competent enough to act as Returning Officers and should continue to supervise elections at City, Town, Municipal and District levels countrywide. Such a war forced Human Right Activist Bob Chacha Wangwe to seek the court’s intervention. The Court of Appeal has finally resolved the controversy on the matter. Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA reports: It all started when Bob Chacha Wangwe petitioned the High Court, under the Basic Rights and Duties Enforcement Act and Articles 26 (2) and 30 (3) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, 1977, challenging the constitutionality of sections 6(1), 7(1) and (3) of the National Elections Act (NEA). He sought for declaration the provisions are unconstitutional for offending Articles 21(1), (2) and 26 (1) of Constitution. Grounds in support of the constitutional petition challenged appointment of Director of Elections, (the DE), City, Municipal and District Executive Directors (DED) to become Returning Officers. It was contended that since the DE and Directors are presidential appointees and considering that the NEA does not set out any safeguards to ensure independence from their appointing authority in election matters, their role as Returning Officers offends Articles 21 (1), (2) and 26 (1) of the Constitution. Furthermore, it was contended that the process of appointing the DE and the Directors has enabled the appointing authority to have the Returning Officers who are members of the ruling party-Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM)-thus violating the citizens' right of free and fair elections. It was alleged in the petition against the Attorney General (AG), the National Electoral Commission and the Director of Elections, the appellants, that from being affiliated to their political party, such Returning Officers would not act independently vis-a-vis the other political parties. During the hearing sessions, Wangwe, the respondent, was represented by Advocates; Mpale Mpoki, Rugemeleza Nshalla, Fatma Karume, Fulgence Masawe, Jeremiah Ntobesya and Jebra Kambole, while ten state lawyers appeared for the appellants. They were Dr Clement Mashamba, the Solicitor General, who was assisted by Mark Mulwambo, George Mandepo, Alesia Mbuya, Ponsiano Lukosi, Evarist Mashiba, Lucas Malunde, all Principal State Attorneys, as well as Tumaini Mfikwa, Grace Lupondo, Narindwa Sekimanga, Yohana Marco and Fausta Mahenge. Having considered the rival submissions of advocates from both parties, the High Court ruled in favour of Wangwe, holding that section 7 (1) and (3) of the NEA does not reflect the safeguards stipulated under article 74(14) of the Constitution. The Court relied on Wangwe’s affidavit evidence with effect that Directors who were Returning Officers during the 2015 elections were CCM members and did not agree with state lawyers that section 7 (1) of NEA does not automatically make the Directors Returning Officer upon their appointment as Directors. High Court judges were of the view that section 7(3) of the NEA does not provide for the mechanism through which the NEC may remove a Director and appoint any other person holding a public office to be a Returning Officer. The High Court was of the view that the safeguards stated under article 74 (14) of the Constitution could be achieved by appointing Returning Officers from amongst the Public Officers as provided for under section 7(2) of the NEA. They held,"...it is our stand that the provisions of section 7(1) and 7(3) of the NEA do not reflect the safeguards set out in Article 74 (14) of the Constitution which prohibit Returning Officers from joining political parties.” The judges of the High Court comprising Atuganile Ngwala, Benhajj Masoud and Firmin Matogoro also said, “We are equally satisfied that the provisions of section 7(1) and 7(3) of the NEA violate article 21(1), 21(2) and 26(1) of the Constitution." On the question of Directors being subjected to swear the oath of secrecy, make declaration that they are not members of any political party or that they have withdrawn their membership, the High Court found that those measures are insufficient to ensure independence of the Returning Officers. From those findings, the High Court held that the provision of section 7(1) and (3) of the NEA violate articles 21(1), (2) and 26(1) of the Constitution and therefore declared them void for being unconstitutional and thus proceeded to strike them out. The appellants were aggrieved by the High Court decision and took the matter to the Court of Appeal for further determination. They advanced 11 grounds to fault the impugned judgment. Five Justices of the appeals court, the highest temple of justice in Tanzania, were assigned to deal with the appeal. They were Augustine Mwarija, Stella Mugasha, Richard Mziray, Rehema Mkuye and Jacobs Mwambegele. In their judgment, the justices ruled against human right activist, Mr Bob Chacha Wangwe, after allowing five among the grounds of appeal advanced. They agreed with the state lawyers that the High Court erred in holding that upon their appointments the DEDs automatically become Returning Officers. According to them, it was not disputed that before assumption of their functions as Returning Officers, the Directors and DEDs must comply with section 7 (5) of the Act and regulation 16 (1) requiring them to take and subscribe to an oath of secrecy in the prescribed form before a magistrate.