THE Second Vice- President, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi has stressed on the need to strengthen Pubic Private Partnership (PPP) in achieving the country’s target of becoming an industrialised country in the next ten years. “We need concerted efforts in our industrialisation agenda. The Private and Development partners are key allies,” Iddi said while gracing the launch of guidelines in implementing the Zanzibar industrialisation drive- 2019/2029. The guidelines launched at the ceremony held at Sheikh Idriss Abdulwakil Hall, Kikwajuni include reviewed Isles industrialisation policy as reflected in the 2015/2020 election manifesto, and assessment report of business environment. Mr Iddi said that having industries in the near future will definitely improve the economy from family to national level because of job creation, and reduce heavy reliance on imported goods. “Read the documents, including the new industries policy and the report on business environment assessment so that you understand the best way to move on in business,” the Second Vice-President said. Mr Ahmed Yussuf from the private sector said that the business documents launched and the message from the secondVP has motivated them, “We need to strengthen PPP so that the industrialisation move becomes a reality.” A representative from the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) and an officer from the Sweden Embassy in Tanzania, Ms Jane Akebak commended the government for coming up with a workable policy of industries development, and a plan to improve the business environment. The Minister for Trade and Industries, Ambassador Amina Salum Ali said the launch of guidelines and documents (in books) on business environment in Zanzibar and way forward is an indication that Zanzibar is heading in the right direction in its struggle to become a country with many industries. “In the documents, no group has been left out, because we want business and industries to contribute heavily to the individual and national income,” she said, adding that small and middle enterprises (SMEs) and entrepreneurs have been included.