TANZANIA Mainland Premier League defending champions, Simba SC will play two international friendly encounters against Kenya and Burundi sides as part of their drill for league assignments in this week of the International break. Simba who are currently at the top of the log with 12 points after winning all their four matches, are expected to play other three build-up games before the team resumes its league campaign on October 23 against Azam FC. On Saturday October 12 TPL defending champions will first face Kenyan Premier League side Bandari FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The Kenyan side are currently placed eighth on the KPL log after collecting eight points from five matches. Bandari under the tutelage of former Young Africans striker Bernard Mwalala are in the last elimination stage of the CAF Confederations Cup and are targeting to cruise into the group stage of the event. Apart from playing Bandari, Patrick Aussems side will travel to Kigoma region where it will play other two friendly matches against hosts Mashujaa FC to be staged at Lake Tanganyika Stadium on October 14. And two days later at the same venue, Simba will battle it with the 2018/19 season Burundi premier league champions Black Eagles alias Aigle Noir FC de Makamba. The Burundian champions like Simba have also been eliminated from the CAF Champions Leagues in the preliminary round. Simba coach disclosed that the three game will enable his side to keep fit and competent condition ahead of their coming league assignments during the league break week which has paved way for FIFA calendar matches. During the Kigoma region tour, Simba will miss eight players who have been summoned in the national teams, with seven in Taifa Stars squad and Meddie Kagere who will join Rwanda’s Amavubi ahead of their next Monday match. In another development Simba head coach Patrick Aussems was forced to cancel his team training session at the flooded Uhuru Stadium ahead of their weekend tie against Bandari due to downpour. Meanwhile Simba fullback left , Gadiel Michael who missed two league games due to injury sustained in the national team assignment has resumed training with Stars ahead of its October 14 game against Rwanda counterpart ‘Amavubi’ to be staged at Kigali Stadium. Michael is among seven players from Simba summoned by Stars interim head coach Etienne Ndayiragije for the Rwanda friendly which is part of the team’s preparation for the CHAN qualifiers return leg against Sudan which will be staged in Uganda. Simba players summoned for the forthcoming match against Rwanda apart from Michael are Shomari Kapombe, Mohammed Hussein, Erasto Nyoni, Jonas Mkude, Mzamiru Yassin and Miraji Athumani. Taifa Stars kicked off training yesterday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam ahead of the Amavubi tie on October 14, the day which Tanzania commemorate the death of the Father of the Nation, Late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.