DATE has been set for the next year All Africa Ladies Golf Challenge Trophy (AACT) which will to be held in Namibia. Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) vice president Anita Siwale disclosed over the weekend that they have already received invitation from Namibia Amateur Ladies Golf Union (NALGU) for Tanzania to participate. According to Siwale, the NALGU has named Rossmund Golf Club situated at the Swakopmund coast as a hosting course for the event which will start from March 29th to April 3rd , 2020. The prestigious biannual competition that rotates within African regions, brings together top African teams that battle for the event’s top honours. Report from Namibia shows that the hosting course is next to the Namibia Desert and Swakop River. It is one of the only five full fairway desert courses on the planet, the oldest desert in the World. Each team will be presented with a team of three players who will battle it out for the 54 holes stroke-play in three days. 18 holes will be covered each day with two lowest gross scores to count per round. Last year, TLGU president Sophia Viggo was quoted as saying her union plans to contest for hosting the event after Namibia, when it turns to East Africa Region in 2022. Viggo unveil that after Tanzania finished second overall in Africa during the 14th edition of AACT in Accra, Ghana in 2018. It was second time for the country to finish second behind giants South Africa who heavily dominate the competition since it was inaugurated. South Africa have always been victors other than Egypt in 2006 at the team level event, though the individual trophy has been won by Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, Egypt, Ivory Coast (after a play-off with Uganda) and Tanzanian Madina Idd won it in Ghana in 2018. Viggo has requested the government and golf fraternity support on their bid to bring the prestigious tournament for the first time in the Tanzania. “Bringing the tournament in the country is perfect timing as we have beautiful courses that can host the continental level event. The event is also ideal in boosting tourism,” she said. The AACT was born as a biennial event, in Harare, at Chapman Golf Club in May 1992; with 12 participating countries include Tanzania