EIGHT countries members of the Council of East and Central African Football Associations (CECAFA) have confirmed to participate in the Senior Women Challenge Cup to be staged in Dar es Salaam from next month. According to the fixture , the tournament is scheduled to kick off from November 14th to 23rd at the Chamazi Complex in Dar es Salaam, but will miss the participation of four CECAFA members. Tanzanian ladies are the event’s defending champions. According to the fixture released in Dar es Salaam, the hosts Tanzania are pooled in group A alongside Zanzibar, Burundi and South Sudan while group B comprises Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia and Djibouti. The countries that will miss the tournament include Sudan, Eritrea, Somalia and Rwanda, who also missed the CECAFA U-20 championship held recently in Uganda. CECAFA Secretary General, Nicholas Musonye has confirmed that eight countries will take part in the tournament and that the council is making all preparations to ensure the tournament is run successfully and the hosting FA, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and Cecafa have proceeded to make formal application to FIFA through CAF for funds to run the event. Hosts Kilimanjaro Queens who have won the regional tournament in the last two editions, are looking for the third title this time around. Kilimanjaro Queens are currently in intensive training under coach Bakari Shime ahead of the tournament. According to the fixture Kilimanjaro Queens will kick of their title defence against South Sudan in the tournament’s official opening game which will be played after the end of early between Zanzibar and Burundi. The next day, on November 15, group B teams will be in action and the match between Ethiopia and Kenya will start before Uganda taking on Djibouti at the same venue. Kilimanjaro Queens will be back in action again by facing Burundi and they will wind up their title defence campaign by entertaining their sisters Zanzibar. The best two teams from each group, will progress to the semifinals to be played on November 21st while the thirdplace playoff and the final are slated for Saturday November 23rd at Chamazi Stadium. During the last CECAFA Championship in Kigali Rwanda, Starlets finished fourth, a huge dip from their performance in the maiden edition in 2016 when they reached the final only losing by a slim 1-0 margin to two time champions Tanzania. Kilimanjaro Queens won the previous championship staged in Rwanda after a 4-1 comprehensive victory against Ethiopia at the Kigali Regional stadium, Uganda finished second while Ethiopia settled in the third place. Tanzania pocketed 2500 US dollar as a cash prize after finishing at the top despite tying on seven points with Uganda, but they won the championship with a superior goal difference and Ethiopia came third with six points. Uganda and Ethiopia were rewarded with U.S dollars 1500 US dollar and 1000 US dollar as the runner up and first runner up respectively. After the women challenge cup in Dar es Salaam the two other CECAFA tournaments, senior men challenge Cup and CECAFA U-17 women tourney will be held from December 1st to 19th in Uganda.