THE opposition ACT-Wazalendo party leader, Zitto Kabwe gave a false report implicating the Police Force to have killed 100 people in Kigoma Region, a prosecution witness told the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Morogoro Regional Crime Officer (RCO) Superintendent of Police Albert Kitundu recounted before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi that investigations conducted after Zitto’s report, showed that only four people, including two police officers and two civilians were killed at the operation. “I discovered the information given was false as only four people died during the operation. There was no casualty who was killed, but some of them were taken by the police for questioning on what happened during the operation led by Senior State Attorney Nassoro Katuga,” the witness said. He was giving evidence in the trial of Zitto, who is Member of Parliament for Kigoma Urban, charged with sedition offences linking the police with the killings of 100 people in the region, including patients who were allegedly forcefully taken away from Nguruka Dispensary. The opposition leader is alleged to have given such false report at a press conference in Dar es Salaam. The witness stated that after such report widely covered in some newspapers, the police arrested Zitto and was taken to Osterbay Police Station. He accounted that while at the Police Station, Zitto was asked about the claims he had given involving the police force and admitted to have convened the press conference and given clarification on the killings. “Thereafter I told him that I should take his cautioned statement to be used in court as evidence. I have him his rights as per the law, but he refused to give the statement at the Police Station. He said he will give the same, while in court,” SP Kitundu explained. On the investigation, he carried out on the matter before being transferred to Morogoro, the Senior Police Officer narrated. According to him, Kigoma RCO gave them statements of different people interrogated and discovered that Zitto’s report was totally false. After such testimony the magistrate adjourned the trial to November 22, 2019 for another hearing. It is alleged by the prosecution that on October 28, 2018, while at a press conference at ACT Wazalendo Head Office in the city, Zitto gave seditious statements likely to promote ill will among members of the societ