FORMER Director of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation with the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Kulthum Mansoor, is one of the latest people facing economic sabotage and money laundering charges who have sought presidential amnesty. Advocate Elia Mwingira told Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Kulthum, his client, had written a letter to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) showing her intention to confess to the crimes and be forgiven. “My client has written a letter to the DPP with an intention to plead to the charges. We request the prosecution to follow up the matter so that this issue is determined as soon as possible ,” the lawyer said. Responding, Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon said he had taken note and would make a follow up. Earlier, the trial attorney informed the court that investigations into the case had not been completed and requested the court to adjourn the trial for another mention. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the case to October 16, 2019, for mention. In the case, Kulthum is facing eight counts of forgery, obtaining money by false pretences and money laundering, a sum of 1,477,243,000/- in all. The offences are alleged to have been committed between January 2012 and May 2017 in the city of Dar es Salaam. The prosecution alleges that between January 2013 and May 2018 at the premises of the PCCB Headquarters within Ilala District, knowingly and with intent to deceive, the director forged a letter of offer, purporting to show that it was issued by Bagamoyo District Council, while it was untrue. Between January 2012 and May 2017 at Upanga area in Ilala District, being a PCCB Director, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, obtained a total of 32.2m/- from different employees, Alex Mavika, Wakati Katondo, Gogo Migu tah, Ekwabi Majungu, John Sangwa and Rose Shingela. The sum, according to the prosecution, was payment for the sale of a plot of land situated at Ukuni Village within Bagamoyo District in Coast Region with the accused person falsely pretending to be the owner of the said plots of land, which she knew to be false. On money laundering, the prosecution alleges that between January 2013 and May 2017 at Upanga within Ilala District, Kulthum acquired the sum of 1,477,243,000/- while she knew or ought to have known at the time of receipt that the money was proceeds of predicate offence of forgery.