FOUR Indian navy ships yesterday docked at the Dar es Salaam Port, whose aims include enhancement of the country’s bilateral ties with Tanzania and promotion of maritime security in the Indian Ocean region. A statement issued by the Indian High Commission in Tanzania said that, the ships - Shardul, Sujatha and Indian Coast Guard Ship Sarathi will be in Tanzania from today to Thursday. They will be at Dar es Salaam Port today and visit Zanzibar from tomorrow to Thursday. “This is the first time for the Indian ships to visit two ports of Tanzania during the same visit. They are part of the Indian Navy’s Southern Command based at Kochi and comprise the first Training Squadron. The first Training Squadron ships last visited Dar es Salaam in March 2018,” the statement said. It further explained that the Training Squadron undertakes sea training of young officers for six months on completion of their ab-initio training at the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala. All ships are custom designed and custom built indigenously in India, to meet the challenging requirements of training the young officers of a 21st century navy. The number of young officers trained by the first training squadron is more than 600 officers per year. The senior of the four ships is INS Tir and is commanded by Capt. Varun Singh, a marine commando and a gallantry award winner. The statement reads further that India and Tanzania have historical trade links. Even today, the bilateral relations between the two countries are multifaceted and encompass economic, defence, political and people to people exchanges. With maritime security being a key concern to both countries, the two navies have been maintaining strong relations over the last several decades with a significant uptick in the last decade. During the visit, the ships will interact with the Tanzanian Peoples’ Defence Forces on professional issues, towards enhancing co-operation and sharing nuances of naval operations, including combating threats of maritime terrorism and piracy. In addition, the ships will undertake several social and cultural engagements and engaging the people of Tanzania. According to the High Commission’s statement, the ships will also be open to the general public for onboard visits. On departure, they will undertake a Joint Passage Exercise with the Tanzanian Navy. Tanzania People’s Defence Force Spokesperson, Col. Ramadhan Dogoli, stressed that the training conducted during the ships’ visit will consolidate security in Indian Ocean. “We will consolidate the techniques to fight against all evils that used to take place in the Ocean, mostly piracy, smuggling as well as human and drug trafficking,” the statement sa