COURT of Appeal yesterday confirmed the High Court’s decision and annulled some provisions under the Law of Marriage Act (LMA), which allow marriage of girls under 18. The landmark verdict in Dar es Salaam by Justices Augustine Mwarija, Winfrida Korosso and Mary Lavira sets the official marriage age for both men and women at 18 years. The justices ruled in favour of Rebeca Gyumi, Director and Founder of Msichana Initiative, the respondent and dismissed the appeal lodged by Attorney General (AG) in attempt to fault the High Court ruling. “We find and hold that the entire appeal has no merit. The appellant was supposed to abide by the order of the High Court to cause amendment of the LMA as directed. Having so stated, we dismiss the appeal in its entirety with no order as to costs,” they declared. In the July 8, 2016 dated ruling, the High Court panel comprising of former Principal Judge Shaban Lila, Sekiet Kihiyo and Ama Munisi nullified sections 13 and 17 of the LMA, which allow girls to marry at 15 and 14 years with parental and court consent, respectively. The judges dismissed the provisions as unconstitutional and gave AG one year from the ruling date to work on the legislation amendments to put 18 years as the minimum age for marriage. The court ruling follows a series of new legal measures, adopted by the Tanzanian government, criminalising attempt to marry school-going children under 18 as well as any “person who impregnates a primary school or a secondary school girl.” The justices pointed out that while the LMA may have been enacted with good intentions in 1971, its intention is no longer relevant because the effect of the Act is discriminating against girls by depriving them of vital opportunities. Aggrieved by the decision, the appellant appealed before the highest temple of justice in the country for further determination. The AG advanced five grounds to fault the judgment, arguing that the High Court had erred in law in equating the age of child with that of marriage. The appellant stated that the High Court erred in law in holding that section 13 and 17 of the Act are discriminatory for giving preferential treatment regarding the eligible ages of marriage between girls and boys and that the provisions have lost their usefulness, deserving to be declared null and void. He faulted the High Court for holding that customary and Islamic laws do not apply in matters of marriage stated in the Act and that various legislative developments that have taken place are unexpected to have valid and competent applications filed in court seeking leave. In their judgment, the justices said it should be noted that the LMA provisions were not declared null and void by the High Court and that is why the government was given one year to cause amendments of the Act after the provisions were found unconstitutional. The justices pointed out that the international legal instruments which Tanzania has ratified and domesticated expressly provide that men and women should be equal partners in marriage, neither of them should be treated as having overriding right than the other when entering the union. “In that sense, therefore, we agree with the High Court that the impugned provisions provide for unequal treatment between girls and boys. We wish to add that a child is a child whether married or not,” the justices said. According to them, the age has to be considered first before one enters in marriage contract otherwise there was no need even for the LMA to set age and conditions for marriage. They said that it was their firm view that the High Court correctly equated the age of the child and the age of marriage. Before the High Court, the respondent had challenged the constitutionality of sections 13 and 17 of the LMA, which require consent of parents or court for girls below 18 years before marriage. A the same time, section 13 (1) and (2) of the Act allows the female person to get married at the age of 15 years and male person to get married only upon attaining the age of 18 years. The respondent argued that the LMA provisions offend Articles 12, 13 and 18 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, 1977, as emended from time to time. She therefore sought the declaration that the provisions are null and void and must be expunged from the statute and 18 years remain the minimum marriage age.