VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan today officiates the joint meeting of ministers responsible for environment, natural resources and tourism from Southern African Development Community (SADC) as the bloc goes extra miles by joining forces for economic prosperity. Tanzania as SADC chair will be seeking to arrive at consensus in priority areas of the bloc as it has been doing in the preceding meetings here, with a view to build a region with high degree of harmonisation and rationalisation; enable the pooling of resources to achieve collective self-reliance to improve the living standards of the people of the region. Chairman of the Committee of Senior SADC Officials Professor Adolf Mkenda said that all preparations for the meeting were completed on time. He added that Tanzania is careful to drive well the deliberations and push to see to it that consensus is arrived at amicably as the bloc in all important issues and work to see that all partners work towards implementing the same as one. The ministers meet after technical expert converged in the city for two days before senior officials from the 16partner states met for four days to set agenda for the joint meeting as well as table proposals before the ministers, for the way forward of the development community. One of the main issues expected today is discussion on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) that provides legal mechanisms for the sustainable international sale of raw ivory and other valuable wildlife commodities. Some of the 16 countries’ representatives feel that some sections of the protocol were incorporated contrary to the right procedures of the protocol itself, hence want some items detached. The meeting attracts over 500 delegates, creating trading opportunities for Tanzanians. The ministers will be discussing on pushing some partner states to sign the SADC protocol on Environmental Management for Sustainable Development (2014) as some countries still drag their feet in spite of the effects of climate change being felt across the southern part of the continent. Another important aspect of the meeting is taking regional integration to next level by galvanising natural resources, especially in the oceans, lakes and rivers (blue economy) to ensure economic growth for individuals as well as member states. That will go hand in hand by ensuring environmental conservation. SADC is also seeking to strengthen integration agenda on matters relating to wildlife. As a country, Tanzania wants to see that the national flag carrier – Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) is facilitated to revive its routes to SADC memberstates; implementation of decision to use Kiswahili as one of official languages of the community; motivate collaboration among member states as well as see to it that agreements reached are enforced to maintain peace and security and steer development in the bloc.