THE Court of Appeal has quashed the High Court’s decision which disallowed District Executive Directors (DEDs) at city, town, municipal and district level to supervise elections as returning officers. Justices Augustine Mwarija, Stella Mugasha, Richard Mziray, Rehema Mkuye and Jacobs Mwambegele ruled against human rights activist, Mr Bob Chacha Wangwe, after allowing some grounds of appeal lodged by the Attorney General) (AG) and two other appellants. Other appellants in the appeal are National Electoral Commission and the Director of Elections. “On the basis of findings of (five) grounds of appeal, we find merits in the appeal. We accordinglyallow it and consequently set aside the ruling and drawn order of the High Court.” the justices declared. The appellants appealed against the High Court’s decision given on May 10, 2019 by a panel of High Court Judges comprising Atuganile Ngwala, Benhajj Masoud and Firmin Matogoro, who termed as unconstitutional the provisions of sections 7 (1) and (3) of the National Election Act. The provisions allowed DEDs to supervise elections at various levels. In the highly awaited judgment, however, the justices of the appeals court agreed with the appellants that the High Court erred in holding that upon their appointments, the DEDs automatically become Returning Officers. According to them, it was not disputed that before assumption of their functions as Returning Officers, the DEDs must comply with section 7 (5) of the Act and regulation 16 (1) requiring them to take and subscribe to an oath of secrecy in the prescribed form before a magistrate. “Since therefore, it is mandatory that the Returning Officers must comply with the conditions stated (…) the law before they assume their functions, the finding by the High Court that Directors automatically become Returning Officers upon their appointments is with profound respect, erroneous,” they said. The justices further said that the evidence relied upon by the High Court in its finding that 75 DEDs who were Returning Officers during the 2015 General Elections were members of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) fall short of reliability, as argued by counsel for the appellants. During hearing of the appeal, the appellants, through ten attorneys from Solicitor General’s Office led by Dr Clement Mashamba, had challenged the trial court’s interpretation of Section 7 (1) and (3) of the Act on account it does not reflect the safeguards set out under Article 74 (14) of the Constitution. “We agree with the Solicitor General’s argument that the impugned provisions should not have been read in isolation of other provisions of the law intended to ensure compliance with Article 74 (14) of the Constitution,” the justices said. On the contention that since the Directors are appointed by the President, thus, they could not abide by the Constitutional requirements of being impartial, the justices agreed with the counsel for the appellants that such argument was speculative and based on apprehension. During hearing of the appeal, Dr Mashamba was assisted by Principal State Attorneys Mark Mlwambo, George Mandepo, Alicia Mbuya, Ponsiano Lukosi, Evarist Mahimba, Lucas Malunde, Fausta Mahenge and Grace Lupondo. The attorneys submitted, among other factors, that the trial judges erred in law and facts in finding that City Directors, Municipal Director, Town Director and District Director upon appointment automatically become returning officers for the purposes of conducting elections. According to them, the High Court judges erred for determining and assessing the provisions of sections 7 (1) and 7 (3) of the Act in isolation of other provisions of the same law and the entire scheme of the whole electoral management process. They submitted that the High Court judges failed to properly assess the prohibitions under Article 74 (14) and the safeguards set out in the National Election Act and its regulations, Public Service Act and its regulations as well as other laws and regulations relating to the conduct and management of elections. The state lawyers also told the justices that the High Court failed to appreciate the legal effect of oath of secrecy and declaration of withdrawal of membership from a political party or not to be a member of a political party taken by returning officers before assuming the office. They submitted that the judges failed to indicate how Sections 7 (1) and (3) of the Act violated Article 21 (1), (2) and 26 (1) of the Constitution and failed to establish the relevance, admissibility and probative value of evidence against allegations that returning officers are members and supporters of ruling party.