THE long awaited Simiyu Climate Resilience Project will finally be implemented as about €169.3m (445bn/-) has been secured for the multi-billion shillings programme. Deputy Minister for Water, Jumaa Aweso said at the weekend that the project was in sight, thanks to the Germany-based Federal Bank of Germany (KfW) that donated €25m, Green Climate Fund (GCF) €102.5m and the government of Tanzania over €40.1m. The project will address critical water demand in Simiyu Region caused by protracted drought. “Over 878,000 residents in five districts of Bariadi, Busega, Itilima, Maswa and Meatu will benefit from this project and the government will make sure it kicks off as planned,” he said. He thanked the Germanybased institutions for their financial support that had made the project possible, adding that phase one of the project would start with three districts of Busega, Itilima and Bariadi. He also expressed gratitude to the delegation from the Germany Parliament Committee for Environment and Nuclear which toured Simiyu Region at the weekend to get familiar with the challenges in the project area. Mr Aweso noted that the government was progressing well with about 400 water projects being implemented countrywide and over 600bn/- invested in them. Speaking on behalf of the Germany Parliament, the head of the delegation and chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee for Environment and Nuclear, Ms Slyvia Kotting, said there was a need for strong collaboration in addressing climate change challenges. “In my view, we need to forge close collaboration in tackling climate change effects and so far Tanzania is doing well in this area particularly the protection of biodiversity in the Serengeti,” she said. Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for Agriculture, Water and Environment, Mr Mahmoud Mgimwa, said the Simiyu Climate Resilience Project was one of its kind in Africa since it would greatly address climate change challenges affecting millions of residents. He said although the government of Tanzania was doing well in the implementation of water projects it still faced challenges of stable water infrastructure in some project areas, calling for partners like Germany and its institutions and others to keep on supporting the sector. According to project details, project consultants will start by mid-this month, while a feasibility study and a detailed design have almost been completed and if all goes well the nominated contractor will sign the project contract in July next year. Apart from touring Simiyu Region, the Germany delegates visited some water projects implemented by Mwanza Urban Water and Sanitation Authority in Ilemela Municipal Council.