YOUNG Africans Assistant Coach Noel Mwandila said keeping the clean sheet on Sunday against Coastal Union was the most important thing for the team. Yanga posted their first win of the season in the unfolding Vodacom Premier League (VPL) courtesy of a 1-0 triumph over Tanga based Coastal Union at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam to restore back trust of supporters. They have obtained four points from possible nine points after three home matches to sit on 12th place, eight points behind league leaders and defending champions Simba SC who are three points clear at the summit with 12 points from four clashes. The Msimbazi Street giants are closely being pursued by Azam FC who are second with nine points after winning all their three games with their latest victory being a 2-1 win over debutants Namungo FC. However, giving his post-match comments, Mwandila said their objective was to collect three points from the match but he continued that keeping the clean sheet on the day was exceptional. “As anticipated, it was a very difficult match but it is a big plus for the boys who really fought hard on the pitch to ensure that we come out with something from the game, especially after unconvincing performance in the past two games,” he said. On his part, Coastal Union trainer Juma Mgunda hailed his players for staging a good fight despite failing to impress after the normal period of play. “Football is a game of mistakes. The poor marking we had was an advantage for them (Yanga) to score the goal and that is what happened. We just need to prepare for other upcoming matches,” he said. Moreover, Mgunda disclosed they have taken all the positives which emerged during the match while the shortfalls which his side displayed will instantly be addressed ahead of other league matches. The goal scorer Abdulaziz Makame said the tangible results will surely help to bring them back on the track after miseries in their previous two encounters. “I am happy to score the only goal which has provided my team the first victory of the season. You can agree with me that we had a bad game against Polisi Tanzania as we conceded three goals to make the match end in a draw. Today, we are happy and I have done my job,” he said. He also said ever since he landed at the club, the reception from fans has been encouraging something he said makes him feel at home. Also, Coastal Union captain Bakari Nyondo conceded the defeat saying they did everything possible to take something from it but they need to focus on their next games. “We did our part. But the final results sums it up all hence no need to complain but look ahead,” Nondo said. Meanwhile, it has been revealed that one of Yanga sponsors GSM will be awarding the team for every three points they will be attaining depending on the nature of the game. The pledge started to be fulfilled on Sunday whereby after the match, GSM donated 10m/- to the club which was received by the team’s Vice Captain Juma Abdul in the presence of the club’s chairman Mshindo Msolla. “This gesture will help us to work hard bearing in mind that we are a big club and on behalf of my teammates, I promise to never let you down,” he said