CRDB, the largest bank in the country, posted a best performance in quarter three of this year and demand side on share activities is expected. The bank, in the first nine months of this year net profit is already 43 per cent higher than the whole of last year. In quarter three the lender posted a net profit of 40.9bn/- from 17.08bn/- in similar quarter last year. Orbit Securities Market Analyst Imani Muhingo said the results expecting to push some activities on the CRDB counter, especially on the demand side since the bank share is “clearly undervalued”. “…After the past seven quarter performance…I would say CRDB has fully recovered from the financial sector shake up brought by the fifth government reformation and crackdown on corruption, drug abuse and ghost workers,” Mr Muhingo told 'Daily News' on Wednesday. The stock brokerage analyst said the lender earning assets are still growing as well, and the bank is increasing focus on retail customers who provide cheap deposits, take expensive loans and historically have low Non-performance loans (NPLs). The banks NPLs went down to 7.5 per cent which is historical low though still above central bank benchmark of 5.0 per cent. “[CRDB] has a sufficient buffer to cover any risks immediate risks that may arise from these NPLs,” Mr Muhingo said. Two market analysts in Nairobi, Kenya advised investors to buy CRDB shares at between 150/- and 300/-a piece from current 100/-. “CRDB is a definite buy, especially after the past seven quarter performance,” Orbit’s Mr Muhingo said seconded his counterpart in Nairobi. The bank earnings per share climbed to 11/90 in three month to September compared to 8/80 in similar period last year. The bank assets grew by 5.0 per cent to 6.22tri/-while customer deposits increased by 7.0 per cent to 4.8tri/-year on year basis. The Orbit said CRDB has worked on, and still improving, its operational efficiency putting expenses in check, “while the increased focus on retailer is a business model that is clearly working well for them”. The bank said FahariHuduma agents— the lender’s wakala—has gone up by 7,260 year to yesterday to reach 11,612 at the end of September.