THE business environment has improved after the government began implementing recommendations of a blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve the business environment, a top leader of Confederation of Tanzania Industries has said. The second Vice- Chairman of CTI, Shabbir Zavery said various government regulatory agencies had changed from being hostile to businesses to become more effective and supporter in protecting their interests. “In fact the government is doing a wonderful job. We see big changes in various government agencies. Those who were hostile have changed, we respect each other and work in harmony,” he said at a meeting with Occupation Safety and Health Authority (OSHA) in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. He said OSHA had begun implementation of the reforms by scrapping five nuisance fees which were seen as hindrance to running of businesses in the country. “Earlier there was always confrontation when OSHA officers came to the industries for inspection. Sometimes they were just malicious, carrying out the inspection to hurt us...but nowadays they do justice and we’re satisfied and the nation marches forward,” he said. He said CTI members were pleased that the removal of the charges and fees had reduced operational costs and attracted more investors. OSHA announced in May to have scrapped charges and fees that were deemed nuisance by the business community in line with government implementation of recommendations under the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve the business environment. It said in a public notice it had scrapped registration fee of the work place area which ranged between 50,000/-and 1.8m/- and fine for fire extinguisher of 500,00-which was deemed to overlap with responsibilities under the Fire and Rescue Force. The authority also removed professional consultancy fee of 450,000/-per hour per one expert on safety and health and a licence fee for compliance of occupational safety and health which was 200,000/-per year and 2,000/-charges for registration forms. It said as a result of the measures there has been a significant increase of registrations of work places from 3,354 work places registered in the 2017/18 financial year to 16,457 in the 2018/19 financial year, equivalent to 491 per cent increase.