MULTIBILLION Dodoma decongestion project is part of the government’s comprehensive development plan unveiled on Wednesday. The decongestion initiative includes massive construction of outer ring roads stretching over 112 kilometres at 215.68 million US dollars (about 494bn/-). The project execution is estimated in three years. Tanzania National Roads (TANROADS) Executive Director Engineer Patrick Mfugale said the joint funded project will be constructed in 15 kilometres out of the city centre, with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and its partners pumping in 412bn/-, which is 83.4 per cent of the total project cost. The government will inject in 82bn/- or 16.6 per cent in addition to land acquisition and compensation related costs. “This is the beginning. We plan to construct inner ring roads that will reduce traffic jams into the city,” said Eng Mfugale. Traffic congestions are costing the country dearly, increasing health risks, slowing access to social services and hiking transportation costs. According to image seen by the ‘Daily News’ and displayed at a stakeholders’ meeting here on Tuesday, the four-lane roads will have a centre reserve stretching some 12 metres—the widest in the country’s infrastructure development history. Additionally, the road reserve will be marked on 75 metres on either side. “We also plan to rehabilitate a number of interior roads along the way,” Eng Mfugale said, insisting that the project will as well involve construction of five fully equipped health centres in Muhomanyika, Veyula, Nala and Ihumwa. TANROADS chief executive said the infrastructure will be constructed with consideration on future expansion plan and will have all needed inlets to facilitate delivery of social services like water, natural gas and electricity. Analysts suggest that the roads are key to linking the city to the central corridor and Trans- Africa northern corridor that starts from Cape Town in South Africa to Cairo in Egypt. “We will implement other projects to enable the key project to have more impacts on the community,” stressed Engineer Mfugale. The tender for the project implementation will be opened in December this year and at least 50 companies have expressed interest. Works, Transport and Communication Minister Issac Kamwelwe said the government will spend at least 17bn/- to compensate residents who will pave way for the project. The minister warned, however, that the project is being implemented in areas that have not been developed and therefore expected cooperation from landlords. He said besides the residents, the government expects no disturbance from the city council. “Records are clear that the councils have been slowing implementation of various development projects, especially roads by imposing unacceptable charges,” the minister said. But, Dodoma District Commissioner Patrobas Katambi assured the minister the region is committed to support the project and offer all needed supports in facilitating land acquisition and compensation. African Development Bank (AfDB) Representative Alex Mubiru reaffirmed the bank’s commitment to support the government initiative to improve service delivery in the country. He proposed the adoption of a pilot road safety component on Dodoma City Council but said more road safety agencies should be established to oversee road safety in the country. AfDB has so far committed over 2.05tri/- to finance construction of 1,655-kilometre road network in the country