DUN & Bradstreet Credit Bureau Tanzania Limited has launched Tanzania’s first real predictive credit score known globally for its risks management solutions in business. Making the revelation in Dar es Salaam DUN & Bradstreet Credit Bureau Tanzania Limited, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Miguel Llenas the approach would help address several challenges being faced by stakeholders in the country’s credit market. “The Score is a proprietary risk management solution that is bespoke to Tanzania consumer credit market worth incorporating in business as a solution to many challenges,” further said the CEO. Mr Llenas said the idea and its products will aid in responsible lending and borrowing, where lenders and creditors will be enlightened on the best ways to manage their loan books, and ensure that interest rates match the credit profile of borrowers, adding: “It will promote the proliferation of credit or loan products in the market.” On his part, the company’s pioneer General Manager, Mr Adebowale Atobatele said their aim has always been to provide sound risk management solution to creditors of all categories and across various sectors with particular focus on providing sufficient information required to make wise credit decisions to their clients that are now possible. “But also to accelerate their speed of decision making, provide them with easy and quick access to credit products and to eligible companies and individuals for the entire economy growth. We will continue to work closely with all stakeholders and relevant parties in Tanzania to help to build a robust credit information infrastructure for Tanzania,” he added. Elaborating, the General Manager noted that a credit score is a numeric valuation, which lenders use along with the credit report to evaluate the risk of offering a loan or providing credit. “Credit scores are important metrics of creditworthiness that can determine whether you get a loan or not, what interest rates you pay on debts, and more. Lenders use credit scoring, among other data points to decide on whether to extend or deny credit. “A person’s credit score is generally a three-digit number within a specific range, where the higher the score, the lower is the probability for a person to default on the loan obligations in the coming 12 months,” he said. Commenting, the company’s Chief Technical Officer, Kelyn Pena said D& B’s consumer credit score is unique in Tanzania, because of its purely statistical background. “Our unblemished model definition and best practice allows a room for our Credit Score to be unique, customizable and predictive. This credit score is intuitive, simple and ready to use by financial institutions and consumers at large. In addition, it is stable in timeline and variation of consumer credit history nature,” he said. Mr Pena further pointed out that the Credit Score provides various benefits to different sets of users, which include enabling a borrower to borrow or not, reduces the time taken to get a loan, and acts as a numerical repetitional collateral, and hence remove ambiguity and subjectivity, an one struggles to get better deals and easy to keep tracking. “It gives a lender a credit issuance process that is simplified and automated… manual subjectivity in assessments/ underwriting is reduced and faster rate of approval/rejections and easy to manage the clients post approval. “Also a service provider can fast enough enable a customer to acquire, easier to assign and automated, let alone managing credit limits and improved cross and up selling,” he added.