THE government has embarked on a nationwide measles-rubella vaccination campaign that targets more than 8 million children under five years. The campaign which is being conducted by the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children in collaboration with President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government is also expected to reach 4,041,934 children with polio vaccination. The Minister for Health, Community Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu made the revelation during the launch of the campaign in Morogoro yesterday, adding that the immunisation services will be available in all health facilities and other special centres earmarked for the service. She said that the campaign expected to cost 11.9bn/-will run for five days from October 17 to 21 this year, adding: “This campaign is part of the implementation of the government plan to reduce number of deaths and disabilities, resulting from vaccine preventable illness.” Ms Mwalimu said that the Measles and Rubella vaccine will be administered to all children aged nine months to four years and eleven months, alongside polio for those aged one year and six months to three years and six months. Shedding light on measles status in the country early this month, the minister said that last month, the disease was reported in Kashasha and Kakoma Divisions and Kibare Village in Kyerwa in Kagera Region, where 17 patients were suspected, and seven tested positive after undergoing laboratory tests. She said that the last patient with measles symptoms was reported on September 14 this year in the same village. “There is no other patient reported in the past two weeks, and those who contracted the disease have recovered... health personnel are educating people on preventive measures against the disease and creating awareness about the nationwide campaign on measles /rubella,” she said. Ms Mwalimu further said that for September alone, a total of 222 samples of measles suspected patients from 23 regions in the Mainland Tanzania were taken to the national laboratory. She equally noted that for the past 23 years, there was no polio patient reported in the country. Meanwhile, ALEXANDER SANGA in Mwanza reports that more than 637,539 children are expected to get Measles and Rubella vaccination in Mwanza Region. Speaking during the official launch of the national campaign at Buzuruga Health Center located in Ilemela District , Mwanza Regional Medical (RMO) Dr Rutta Thomas said the campaign focuses on preventing Rubella and Measles.