SIMBA SC Head Coach Patrick Aussems narrated that no player in his squad is sure to be on the starting list, a move he said propels healthy competition among them. The Belgian trainer is confident to drive Simba to the club’s third championship title in a row. So far, the Msimbazi Street Reds are firm at the top of the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) with 12 points from four outings, winning all of their matches to maintain unbeaten run and on the good path to defend the title. Simba’s seriousness for the season’s title is very crystal clear and they managed to conquer the Lake Zone, where they reaped all six points from the wins over Kagera Sugar and Biashara United. Simba trounced Kagera Sugar 3-0 before ending Biashara United resistance with a comfortable 2-0 win on Sunday. However, speaking after the match, Aussems said he is confident with all the 25-squad members he has insisting that none of them is completely sure to be on the starting lineup of the team. “All the players I have are competent that is why I am not afraid to do rotation basing on the nature of opponents and pitch,” he said. Additionally, the coach said he was pleased to retreat from the Lake Zone with essential six points despite their final game against Biashara United being played on what he said a bad pitch. “Usually, I find it tough to play on these kinds of pitches because we deprive our fans an opportunity to watch entertaining football,” he said. He added that in response to the poor state of the pitch, they were compelled to play long balls since it was impossible to showcase their common football display saying they are happy to return to Dar es Salaam and play on good arenas. Asked to comment on the performance of Miraj Athuman who scored the second goal on the day, Aussems said he never comment on individual player work rate since team work is all that matters most. “He (Athuman) played upfront and he scored meaning that he executed his job well,” he smilingly said. In his words, the former Lipuli FC striker said he feels happy whenever he scores and that he will continue to work hard for his new club. “The most important thing is that we have gained six points and we need to look up for the other incoming league fixtures,” he said. On his part, Biashara United Head Coach Omary Madenge conceded the defeat saying Simba is a fully furnished team. “They were better than we were in everything. We tried to play counterattacks but could not manage to get the results we wanted,” Madenge said. However, the coach insisted that he will work closely with the team’s management to ensure that they get back to winning ways immediately. Queried what he missed from the game, Madenge replied, “I missed goals. We need to train hard to get as many goals as possible,” said him. Madenge who traded with Biashara United and guided it to the top flight league promotion, has since took over from the former coach Amri Said who resigned recently.