The trees on the island spotted lush umbrella canopies that were home to various species of colourful song birds, rodents, lizards and insects. Other Sakawa residents lived secretively in the thick undergrowth away from the sight of marauding predators. It was also common knowledge that very dangerous devils lived in a cave on the island. So, no humans lived there. In theory, Haggai’s idea sounded viable and brilliant. Sakawa was a small island that jutted out prominently on a fresh water lake. The island was still uninhabited by humans at that time, save for an occasional visit by fishermen. The island was also covered by a carpet of nutritious green grass, gorgeous fruit trees and smooth towering rocks. Haggai had advised me to move my 40-strong herd of cattle to the island and leave it there. I initially thought Haggai was stark raving mad. He told me that Sakawa had plenty of pasture and good drinking lake water in the vicinity. He capped his advice by saying that the cattle would thrive and multiply rapidly. He pointed out further that there were no hyenas, leopards or wild dogs on the island. Of course, I was aware that there were no large wild cats or dogs on the island. I also knew that the crocodiles that lived in the lake ate fish almost exclusively. “Crocodiles are afraid of cattle,” Haggai had said, rather unwittingly. “You cannot expect a crocodile to tangle with a bull the size of Jeki or a hefty cow the size of Malewa. A well-placed kick from Jeki is enough to break the jaw of a crocodile,” he said. He added that cattle had a reputation for goring crocodiles to death with their sharp horns. “Last year Ngaka’s bull gored a large crocodile to death,” he said jutting out his chin at me. I was, indeed, impressed by Haggai’s idea. It sounded brilliant. So, Haggai and I rowed to Sakawa in a small dugout canoe the following day to assess the magnitude of safety for the cattle. We spent two days and two nights on the island looking for signs of danger. An eerie silence blanketed the island at night, save for the occasional hooting of owls, cooing of doves and the soft lapping of water on the serene beach. We didn’t see any of the dreaded devils. Indeed, the island would be a haven for my cattle. We never heard the scream of a hungry hyena or the grunt of an angry leopard on the island. The mornings were full of life. The tree canopies and the tall grass burst into life with songs from birds, chirps from crickets and squeals from rodents. I was satisfied that my cattle would, indeed, thrive and multiply on the island. We returned to Kalemia, a farmers’ village on the eastern fringe of the lake, to plan the logistics of shifting the 40-strong herd to the island. The best idea would be leashing Jeki, the dominant bull, and towing him to the island with a rope tied to a canoe. The rest of the herd would file behind the influential bull and swim along. Cattle were adept swimmers in the lake where the undercurrent was not vicious. So, Haggai and I decided to move the cattle to the island the next day. Several young village men, my son Casto and Lucy, my wife, helped Haggai and I drive the herd to the shore and goad it into the lake. It was an easy task. The entire herd swam gracefully to Sakawa with Jeki leading the way from a leash fastened to the canoe. Once again, Haggai gave me company on the island. We spent a week watching the cattle graze merrily on the lush vegetation. We rowed back to Sakawa the following week. It was harvest time. Food crops had flourished well in the fertile red soil and good rains. So, there was a bumper harvest followed by after-harvest festivals. A month went by without anyone visiting the cattle at Sakawa. I rowed solo to the island one afternoon the following month. I found the herd taking a nap at a clearing after good grazing. Some of the cows stood up in awe with newborn calves hiding behind their mothers. The calves had never seen humans. Intuition must have told them that I was a dangerous wild animal – a cow eater. Well, they were partially right. Jeki approached me cautiously and took a keen look at me. He appeared to be thinking really hard. He eventually recognized me and edged closer to sniff me. He licked my hand affectionately as I stroked his hump. Satisfied that the herd was safe, I left the island and stayed away for six months. I returned to the island after a hectic farming season. I found the cattle grazing behind a thick clump of bushes. All the cattle looked much healthier. Jeki was very fat. But there was something seriously amiss. I noted ominous signs of suspicion. The entire heard stood up and gazed at me. The cows and their calves edged away walking into each other. They looked terrified. I must have looked strange to the herd. Even Jeki appeared to have forgotten me. This time he did not bother to come to lick my hand. I got closer to the herd to stroke Jeki but, alas, this was a near-fatal mistake. Jeki hissed in fear, frustration and anger. He scratched the ground with his hooves and lunged at me intent on goring me to death. I winced, ducked his blow and fled frantically making a beeline for the canoe. Jeki gave me a very hot chase and caught up with me as I reached the beach. He sent me flying high with a massive flick of the horn. I sailed in the air with both legs pointing skywards and hit the lake water headfirst. I swam frantically towards the canoe feeling devastated. I rowed to a discreet distance and stopped to inspect the injury Jeki had inflicted on me. I was lucky to escape with my life. Jeki nearly punched a hole into my rib cage. I stared back at the cattle in utter disbelief as the rest of the herd rejoined Jeki. I rowed back to Sakawa feeling utterly sick and disorientated. When I arrived home Pongo, my best dog, dashed to the gate to receive me. He wagged his tail with affection and sniffed my hands thinking I had brought with me a large chunk of antelope meat. I would have patted him on the head and praised him as was customary, but I didn’t. I wasn’t in the mood to speak to dogs. My response must have shocked Pongo. I ignored him although he kept pawing me, grunting. Incensed, grabbed a cane and hit him. I ordered him to stay away. The dog yelped, tacked his tail between his hind legs and fled. My mind was on the errant cattle and Haggai -- that hoodlum who hoodwinked me into losing the herd. I decided to travel to Baraki to see him the following day. I wanted to give him a good lash of the tongue and a hard clout to the head with a sturdy stick. Haggai had migrated to Baraki with his herd of cattle. I entered into his homestead at dusk seething with anger but the moron wasn’t home. His wife, Paulina, said her husband was away on a hunting expedition. I very nearly hit Paulina instead, to settle the score. I returned to Kalemia looking like a madman. I decided to go to Sakawa the next day and shoot all the cattle. I didn’t need them anymore.