…JPM reiterates and praises successive governments for addressing poverty, diseases and ignorance AS Tanzania yesterday commemorated 20 years since the passing of the founding Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, President John Magufuli reiterated commitment of the fifth phase government in cherishing and honouring the good deeds of the fallen statesman. Speaking at the climax of the 195-day Uhuru Torch Race at Ilulu grounds in Lindi Region, Dr Magufuli assured Tanzanians that his government was steadfast in fostering values and development projects which were championed by Mwalimu Nyerere. Mwalimu Nyerere, who ruled the then Tanganyika and thereafter Tanzania between 1961 and 1985, breathed his last on October 14, 1999, at Saint Thomas Hospital in London, United Kingdom, succumbing to leukemia. “My government has taken all it takes to value and honour all issues which were introduced by Mwalimu Nyerere, including good governance, the fight against graft and abuse of office as well as equality and integrity, among others,” Dr Magufuli told the fully-packed audience at Ilulu grounds. President Magufuli also seized the occasion to praise successive governments after Mwalimu Nyerere for treasuring the good deeds of the fallen hero by undertaking development projects in addressing three enemies of the nation which Nyerere had cited, namely poverty, diseases and ignorance. Dr Magufuli cited some of the achievements of his government as free primary and secondary education to which the government dishes out 23.86bn/- every month to cater for the needs of pupils and students in public primary and secondary schools. “We have also managed to increase the portfolio of loans for students in higher institutions of learning from 365bn/- in 2015 to about 470bn/- at present, we are doing all this to honour the values introduced by Mwalimu Nyerere,” he stated. President Magufuli, who succeeded the President of the fourth phase government, Mr Jakaya Kikwete, in 2015, was equally impressed that his government has started construction of the multi-billion shillings hydro power plant at Stiegler’s gorge along Rufiji River. Now renamed Mwalimu Julius Nyerere hydro-power plant with a planned installed capacity of 2,115 megawatts, the project was on the former president’s drawing plan since the 1970s but it was not executed due to lack of financial resources. Speaking previously when laying a foundation stone of the project, Dr Magufuli directed that some part of Selous Game Reserve, to which the hydropower plant is located, should be designated as a reserve area and named Mwalimu Nyerere National Park. Dr Magufuli mentioned other achievements by the government under the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) as increased budget for medicines and medical equipment from just 31bn/- in 2015 to a whooping 270bn/- during the current fiscal year. It should also go down the memory that the fifth phase government has constructed 362 new health centres and 69 district hospitals across the country, setting a record of health facilities constructed since the independence of Tanganyika from Britain in 1961. The list of development projects being undertaken under the administration of Dr Magufuli include the 7.5trl/- Standard Railway Gauge (SGR) snaking its way in two phases from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro and then from Morogoro to the capital city of Dodoma. Speaking on electrification, Dr Magufuli explained that his government has increased the number of villages with electricity from 2,018 in 2015 to about 8,002 at present. “We have also been able to revive the then ailing Air Tanzania Company Limited with the purchase of new seven aircrafts. One airplane is expected in late October or early November, this year. The plan is to have at least 17 airplanes for the national carrier,” he remarked. Regarding the agricultural sector, President Magufuli said the government has scrapped over 100 nuisance taxes and levies which had been burdensome to farmers. Dr Magufuli was also pleased that post-Nyerere governments have cemented diplomatic relations within the region and globally as well promoting the Kiswahili language within the East African Community (EAC), African Union (AU) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC)