HARD work, discipline and commitment to value for money have been key to the success of the Hanspaul Group as the overall winner of the President's Manufacturer of the Year Awards. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), of the Arusha Based Hanspaul Group, Satbir Hanspaul told the 'Daily News' that they attribute their success to hard work and discipline with a strong commitment to value for money in their business and products. " The secret is discipline and hard work. We keep our customers first. We strive to produce quality products at affordable price," said Mr Hanspaul, the CEO of the group famous for making customised safari vehicle bodies for tourism industry. Hanspaul Group, with vast expertise stretching back to 40 years in various manufacturing fields, was named the overall winner for the 2018 President's Manufacturer of the Year Awards organised by the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) in Dar es Salaam last week. The CEO heaped praise for President John Magufuli for promoting industrialisation in Tanzania which has inspired them to do better and said they were thankful their efforts have been recognised by CTI. " We thank President Magufuli for encouraging the establishment of industries in the country. We are being inspired by the government commitment. We also commend CTI very much for recognising our efforts," he said. He said government commitment on industrialisation provided hopes for growth for their four companies-Hanspaul Automechs Limited which deals with designing and fabrication of safari vehicle bodies and manufactures of 4X 4 accessories of vast use and Dharam Singh Hanspaul and Sons Limited which deals with designs and erection of steel structures pre-engineered buildings. Other companies under Hanspaul Group are Hanspaul Industries Limited Manufacturers of Export Q uality Corrugated Cartons, Paper Packaging Materials and Paper bags and Hanspaul Consultancy. The first runner up in the 2018 PMYA was Tanzania Breweries Limited and the second runner up was Jaffery Industries, local manufacturer of household, school, office, laboratory and hospital furniture.