TANZANIA Football Federation (TFF) on Tuesday said the introduction of players passport system will highly help to solve the problems of age cheating among players. This was disclosed by the federation’s Technical Director (TD) Oscar Mirambo during a three-day football clinic going on at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam meant to identify talented youth football players. The clinic is being conducted by Cambiasso Sports Management in partnership with Rainbow Sports and has attracted young players from Dar es Salaam-based football academies. “We have established players passport system which requires every young player aged 12 years to be registered in the system so that no matter what happens, he will never be able to cheat about his age,” Mirambo said. Commenting on the clinic, Mirambo thanked the organisers for coming up with the initiative saying they are greatly assisting the federation in its effort to develop football from the foundation level. “As you know, we need to be serious when it comes to youth development programs because it is the area where real talent is sourced and if we want to have a strong national football team, we must invest in youth football,” he said. He then urged coaches from various academies where the youths hails from to make sure that they train them properly by impacting basic football skills. “Whenever you get a chance like this, young players should embrace it fully because some of the famous players in the country have been groomed from similar clinics like the one we are witnessing,” said him. On his part, Cambiasso Sports Management Communication Officer, Jerry Matwanga said they are looking to get seven players from the ongoing clinic who will be looked after by them. “We have provided a path for about five players who have crossed the boundaries and are now shining outside the country,” Matwanga said. He named the players who have benefited from similar clinic as Ally Ng’anzi (USA), Yohana Nkomola (Ukraine), Issa Makamba (Israel), Kibabage Nickson (Morocco) and Abdallah Shaibu (LA Galaxy) respectively. He added that time has come for Tanzania to produce as many players as possible to compete in other country’s leagues since the available few clubs cannot be able to absorb all available talented players. “One of the key goals of our organisation is to produce as many Mbwana Samattas as possible bearing in mind that it is embarrassing to see that from over 40million Tanzanians, we have only few strikers doing well on the international scene,” said him. According to him, the three day clinic will climax tomorrow at Uhuru Stadium in the city and lucky players will be announced instantly.