THE Organising Committee of the Excellence in Journalism Tanzania (EJAT), Awards has launched the eleventh edition of the awards and introduced three new categories in this year’s competition. The Chairperson of the EJAT Organising Committee Mr Kajubi Mukajanga named the new categories as Innovations for Human Development, Menstrual Health and Hygiene Management and Sexual and Reproductive Health. Mr Mukajanga, who is also Media Council of Tanzania (MCT), Executive Secretary, said this year’s awards featuring 20 categories, including the new ones, will mark the 11th edition of the awards since its inception in 2009 with the aim to recognize and award outstanding works in journalism. “Following the launch, Tanzanian journalists from print, electronic and online media are invited to submit their entries basing on the categories set by the committee starting today to January 30, 2020,” he said. Besides three new categories, others are business, economy and finance reporting, culture and sports, agriculture and agri-business, education, tourism and conservation, investigative reporting, data journalism, good governance, best photo journalist, best cameraman, best editorial cartoonist, gender reporting, elderly reporting, children reporting, oil, gas and mining governance, road safety, and open category. He said winners of the various categories will be awarded a trophies, certificates and other prizes. “Every year, EJAT organising committee strives to improve the awards thus why it has introduced the new categories due to their importance,” he said. Mr Mukajanga further detailed that the Sixth Lifetime Achievement in Journalism will also be considered this year. ” Candidates for this award are those with an impressive track record of excellence in journalism as well as those who have shown strong and unwavering support and commitment for excellence in journalism and press freedom,” he said. For her part, Human Development Innovation Fund (HDIF), Communications Specialist, Ms Hannah Mwandoloma said that innovation was very crucial in the country’s development noting that her organisation has decided to introduce the category in EJAT awards so as to encourage journalists to report innovation stories . “There are various innovations being done by young innovators in the society, but they are not known to the public thus by reporting their works it will help them to promote their work and even help them to access capital. Ms Mwandoloma said that HDIF will continue to cooperate with MCT in supporting EJAT awards especially in innovation category.