THE second phase of Agriculture Sector Development Programme (ASDP II) is lagging behind as a result of some government’s arbitrary ban of agricultural produce exports. That was said by at an event organised by Agricultural Council of Tanzania (ATC) in Morogoro region yesterday to discuss private sector participation in the ASDP II implementation Expoinding, the participants advised that for the programme to be effective there was a need to engage all key stakeholders, including the private sector in any decision in the agricultural sector. They maintained that orders being imposed by the government from time to time pose a big challenge on successful implementation of the programme, and hence called upon the State to keenly look into that the matter. “We have been badly affected by government some orders especially those relating to exports and ban, for instance, SUMRI has 5,000 tonnes of maize waiting to be shipped, but suddenly a ban was imposed on export…you can see how such orders affect not only traders, but also the whole entrepreneurship value chain including the government itself,” complained Mr Joseph Massimba from Sokoine University Graduate Entrepreneurs Cooperative (SUGECO). He noted that it was high time such challenges were addressed and a proper system of engaging key stakeholders was adopted to protect interest of both the government and the private sector. Another stakeholder, Ms Sifa Gerana, who engages in cereal crops’ processing noted that that arbitrary export ban gravely affects them, where at times they were in possession of a big stock, which the local market could not absorb, thus such order only make them incur losses. On his part, Research Consultant who researched on challenges affecting private sector participation in ASDP II implementation, Mr Apromius Mbilinyi, commented that it was vital for the private sector to fully venture into agriculture sector, as there was a myriad of opportunities including investing in value addition. “70 per cent of seeds are imported. This is an opportunity to private sector, they should think of grabbing such opportunities. Apart from this, they should also start constructing warehouses to keep farm produces as records have it that post-harvest loss now stands at 30 per cent, in the country,” he said. Equally, he hinted that the private sector currently employs 65 per cent of the entire country’s labour force, adding that through the ASDP II, more employments could be generated if the sector embarked on a heavy investment in processing factories for value addition.