DEVELOPMENT stakeholders have urged the Medical Store Department (MSD) to speed up issuance of 'out of stock certification' (permit) to keep the hospitals supplied with all medicines and laboratory reagents. The call was made yesterday in Dar es Salaam during the second Tanzania Health Supply Chain Summit (HSCS), with emphasis that speedy issuance of such permits was vital in health service provision to wananchi. "We are happy that responsible contractors/vendors for the supply of medicine and laboratory reagents through Jazia Programme have been doing the best to serve our hospitals. But, it is somehow challenging when MSD delays the permit for hospitals to collect some items from vendors,” Senior Laboratory Scientist for Namtumbo Town Council, Mr Galadina Challe noted. He called on the MSD to mull formation of a proper system which will permanently address the problem of unnecessary delays. However, he commended the government's efforts in investing almost 99 per cent in the health sector, a situation which has improved health services in Namtumbo Council. The Pharmacist for Nyasa Town Council, Mr Waziri Mashaka commented the same, saying that MSD should set a proper system to allow hospitals to reach the medicines' vendors whenever they go out of stock. He stressed that missing some items is a normal issue; hence, MSD should not feel inferior to issue the certifications and let vendors fill the medicine and laboratory reagents gap, in the name of serving the community in time. "It is well known that MSD and vendors are not competitors, but doing the same thing, which is to work together to achieve the same goal of delivering smooth health services to the community. Hence, there is no need for MSD to hesitate in delivering the certification to allow vendors fill the gap, and that is the real meaning of Jazia Programme," he said. Jazia Programme was officially launched by the Minister in the President's Office, Regional Administration and Local government, Mr Seleman Jafo, in October last year, aiming at among others, facilitate fully availability of medicines and laboratory reagents at all health centres, country-wide. During the event, the minister was quoted saying that Jazia Programme meant that vendors/ suppliers should start (the supply) from where the (MSD) ends, to make sure that all hospitals and health centres never miss any medical item.