THE Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (Sagcot) has urged stakeholders in the agriculture sector to advise and help small holder farmers to use lime to restore soil health and also value soil tests. Speaking on the occasion of sending materials and field officers to various locations in the southern highlands regions Sagcot’s area of operation, Sagcot Chief Executive Officer Geoffrey Kirenga, told reporters that experience accumulated by their institution in promoting agricultural productivity shows that villagers do not link seriously soil health to their harvests and consequently do not value soil tests. “As we soldier on in implementing the Agricultural Sector Development Programme --- Phase Two, our humble suggestion is that all stakeholders in this sector should support our farmers to improve soil health before planting. These innocents do link soil health to increased harvests; do not think of soil tests before planting. We must jointly urge and help farmers to test soil and improve its health so that they can get increased harvests. Use of lime improves health of exhausted soil and reduces farmer’s big dependence on fertilisers,” the agronomist argued. Tanzania already has infrared technology that can be easily accessed by farmers. The technology can suggest which type of crops suits the soil tested and the types of agricultural inputs needed. The technology also helps farmers understand the real needs for the piece of land chosen for farming. Sagcot is a publicprivate partnership that is battling to improve the agriculture sector in southern Tanzania by fostering responsible agri-business investments in the corridor entrusted to the institution. To achieve this goal Sagcot is using a cluster strategy so that peasants can access services of interconnected companies, specialised suppliers, service providers and associated institutions. Three clusters, Ihemi, Mbarali and Kilombero, are operational focusing on strategic crops: tea, Irish potatoes, tomatoes, soya and dairy products. Mr Kirenga said going by Sagcot’s experience, physical infrastructure and social services have improved hugely. He argued: “Villages and districts have good roads throughout the year, power has gone to villages, warehouses and improved seeds are available to villagers. We see this in our corridor. Yes, Tanzania has succeeded immensely in these areas. But we must remember that the welfare of our rural people will depend on how much they harvest.”