THE government plans to increase fish production to over half a million tonnes a year, which will also increase fish consumption from 8-10kg per person annually. To do this, the government has embarked on a major investment programme to boost fish production and consumption across the country. This is according to Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries, Dr Rashid Tamatama. This is good news for us all given the nutritional value of fish. Fish is rich in omega-3 fatty acids and vitamins such as D and B2 (riboflavin), calcium and phosphorus and a great source of minerals, such as iron, zinc, iodine, magnesium and potassium. To increase fish production and consumption, it means the government wants to have healthy Tanzanians – citizens who can produce and eat well. With a good network of road, rail and air transport, fish products will be able to reach many parts of the country and so many people will be able to buy and eat fish. There are also initiatives for individual people to engage in aquaculture which also contributes to fish consumption at family level. Besides the Indian Ocean, Tanzania is blessed with plenty of inland fresh water sources such as lakes, rivers, dams and ponds where fishing activities take place. With the government’s crackdown on illegal fishing across the country, there will be more production and Tanzanians are assured of consuming unpolluted fish. This will enable fishermen to earn more for having big fish catches and sales. It translates also into more jobs as many young people will engage in fishing activities to earn a living. This means that with more people engaged in farming, livestock, poultry keeping and beekeeping and fishing we will be sure of more food security for Tanzanians. In the 2018/19 fiscal year the government, through Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB), has released 11bn/- and 22bn/- more will be realised to support investments in the fisheries sector. The Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries has established a special desk to help any person with questions on the fisheries sector to get right answers. All this aims at enabling stakeholders to get information about the fisheries sector. With the main freshwater species such as Nile perch, tilapia and the freshwater sardine (dagaa), Tanzanians will be able to consume more fish and be healthy. So, let’s increase fish production and consumption for present and future generations. What is still needed though is to increase public awareness so that many people know the importance of eating fish.