FACE BOOK is the leading social media platform that accounts for 45.27 percent of total users in the country to a year ending September. The data produced by StatCounter—GlobalStats, showed that Facebook though leading is losing its grip to other social media such as Pinterest and Twitter, which are emerging fast. The Dublin, Ireland based StatCounter statistics are directly derived from hits—as opposed to unique visitors—from 3.0 million sites, which use Stat- Counter, resulting in total hits of more than 15 billion per month. Tigo Tanzania Corporate Communications Manager, Shisael Woinde said Facebook just came in at the right time when people needed to connect with friends and families. “Tigo innovation working with Facebook on Swahili FB made it easier for majority to use FB in the language easier for Tanzanians thus breaking the language barrier,” Ms Woinde said yesterday. The Tigo Manager added that apart from Facebook cool features, the country’s mobile penetration has made it easier for users to access social media platform. According to Hootsuite Digital 2019 Tanzania research the internet users’ penetration has reached 38 per cent equals to 23 million people in January. The report also shows that 4.9 million are active social media users presenting a penetration of 8.2 per cent. An economist, Dr Hildebrand Shayo, said there are two main reasons for Facebook to become a leading social media not in the country but globally. “Facebook is appealing to certain age group. Like in other part of the world is preferred by those in age between 12 and 18 years old. “Secondly, compared to other application is all down to its accessibility and easy to use interface,” Dr Shayo, who works for TIB Development Bank, told 'Daily News' yesterday. The StatCounter, a web traffic analysis website started in 1999, report showed that though Facebook leads in Tanzania but loses its grip to other social media based on the hit analysis. The report data showed that in Facebook user in the country accounts for 63.19 per cent May but dropped to 45.27 per cent last month. On other hand, Pinterest user increases from 15.52 per cent to 25.28 per cent last month and twitter from 8.91 per cent to15.09 per cent. Instragram also registered a growth from 4.64 per cent to 6.33 per cent. However, a new report titled Digital Transformation in Tanzania launched in March indicates that twofifths of the country’s population still remain offline and are excluded from the socioeconomic benefits of the internet.