RELIGIOUS leaders in Zanzibar have been challenged to lead in the fight against cholera in the Isles amidst ongoing heavy rain. It was Zanzibar Unicef Head Maha Damaj who challenged Zanzibar interfaith leaders during an orientation meeting on cholera. To end cholera outbreak in the Isles, the government recently launched the national Zanzibar Comprehensive Cholera Elimination Plan (ZACEEP). Ms Damaj said for the plan to be successful and achieve its desired results of total elimination of cholera in the Isles, there was a need to involve all key stakeholders in the government, the private sector, civil society organisations and the community at large. She said religious leaders had a significant role to play and contribute to efforts aimed at eliminating cholera in Zanzibar. "The voices and actions of religious leaders are critical in this regard...you command maximum attention, not just to your followers, but also to the general public, policy makers and the government at large," said Ms Damaj. "When religious leaders raise their voice on issues, we all listen, reflect and act. The children of Zanzibar need your voices and actions so that their lives today and tomorrow are safe, secure and promising and cholera will neither threaten them nor end their dreams," she stressed. Since 1978 Zanzibar has recorded at least 17 major cholera outbreaks and documented more than 14,000 cholera cases and 210 deaths. The Unicef chief in Zanzibar said the figures called for serious measures to end the recurrence of the preventable disease. "It reflects the urgent need for strong and effective measures for early detection, prevention and access to timely healthcare," she stressed. For his part, the guest of honour, Deputy Principal Secretary in the Second Vice-President's Office Abdallah Mitawi said religious leaders played a key role in society and could make a big impact in the fight against cholera. He said religious gatherings often attracted big crowds and interaction among believers, therefore, they should be in the frontline in the fight against cholera. He said the government was keen on the elimination of the disease altogether and among the measures taken was the construction of Kibele Dumpsite, one of its kind to improve waste management. "The government is also doing its best to enhance safe and clean water supply, currently new water infrastructures are being installed in many parts of Zanzibar," he said. Zanzibar has high coverage of water supply at over 95 per cent, yet the quality of water is a constant challenge, where only 39 per cent of the water sources are properly treated before consumption. Ms Damaj listed the most critical contributors to the repeated cholera outbreak in Zanzibar as the use of easily contaminated shallow wells during floods and untreated water use from boreholes and other sources.