THE blueprint on the improvement of business policies and laws in the country has received accolades from members and stakeholders of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), saying it would attract investors. The blueprint which was engineered by TPSF and submitted to the government since 2010 is now at a good stage as the government has adopted the document for enactment of law which is expected to be a catalyst on thorny issues facing the sector. The Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office tasked for Investment, Ms Angellah Kairuki said the government has already taken some measures in implementing the plan which includes construction of infrastructures, port expansion and construction of airports. “The fifth phase government has started by putting in place friendly environment through construction of infrastructures that will easy movement of goods and services to local and international markets,” she said. Ms Kairuki noted that on the same vein the government has removed over 54 charges and fees as well as merging regulatory authorities such as TFDA and TBS. “The government will continue to review policies and laws that hinder the growth of the private sector with the aim of speeding up development and achieve the 2025 industrial and middle income goals,” she said. On his part, the TPSF Chairman, Mr Salum Shamte commended the measures that are being taken by the government in supporting the growth of the private sector. “The blueprint was engineered by private sector with the major aim of finding solutions to challenges we face, now that the government has adopted it we should commend their efforts,” he said. Mr Shamte further said that if the government continues to take such measures and amend policies and regulations the private sector would flourish as many more investors would be attracted to come an invest in the country. “We have had several talks with the government on challenges facing the private sector, we ask the government to continue with the support given to us, we have a good intention of improving investment environment in Tanzania,” he said. The TPSF Executive Director, Mr Godfrey Simbeye hailed the government on the move which is due to be tabled in the Parliament come next session which is a crucial stage for it to become a law.