THOSE watching live global events broadcast this week, especially Tanzanians, must have felt great, when they watched on their TV sets a grand event in Beijing’s Great Hall of the People, when retired Tanzanian Prime Minister and one of the earliest ambassadors to the United Nations, Dr Salim Ahmed Salim (pictured), was being awarded a unique ‘Medal of Friendship’ with the People’s Republic of China. It was a colourful event to see the daughter of Dr Salim cheerfully grasping the medal on behalf of her rather indisposed daddy, who was not personally present at the ceremony. I watched the event on a local TV network, which broadcast the event live from Beijing. It was thrilling! According to reports, Dr Salim has been the first African to be honoured with this unique Chinese medal of “friendship with the people of China”. Chinese President Xi Jin Ping handed it as part of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the People’s Republic of China in 1949 led by revolutionaries commanded by Chairman Mao. Dr Salim is the second to receive this unique Chinese honour since it was initiated last year by Russian President Vladimir Putin becoming the first global leader recipient of this grand Chinese honour, according to reports. Other leaders, who were honoured this medal along with Dr Salim included Cuban President Raul Castro, former French Prime Minister Jean Raffan and Isabel Crook of Canada, among a handful of others. According to an online report, the relationship of Dr Salim with Chinese people has a long history since he was only 21 years old. “Dr Salim first visited China in April 1963 on a special invitation after attending the first African-Asian Journalists Conference in Jakarta, Indonesia, from April 24-30, 1964. Later that year, Dr Salim returned to China, where he was invited to assist in the translation of a special journal of ‘Pictorial History of China’ from Chinese language into Kiswahili. “Dr Salim had a chance to return to China in April 1969 as Tanzanian ambassador to China during the reign of the Tanzanian founding administration of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. “During the seven months he spent in China as Tanzania ambassador, Dr Salim was able to meet with China’s most prominent leaders, including Chairman Mao, whom he met at the Great Wall of the People. “His meeting with Chairman Mao was part of the notable events of the 9th Congress of the Communist Party of China, which has since been remembered as a Chinese party congress, which opened the way for China’s great leap forward politically and economically as seen today,” according to a report I have. What is noted most remarkably is Dr Salim’s unique role, when he was our country’s Permanent Representative at the United Nations, when he led efforts of various friendly countries to China to assist China regain its seat at the United Nations hitherto occupied by Taiwan’s powers supported by major western nations. Dr Salim was then adhering to the vision of Tanzanian Founder President Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who detested the absence of China at the United Nations as a “serious misnomer”. According to reports, Dr Salim has been credited for his crucial interventions in preventing the United States and its allies from postponing the voting process to block the entry of China to the United Nations. According to one report, “Hon Salim’s role in the United Nations created major hostilities against both himself and his country from various groups that were adamantly against the Chinese people from regaining their inalienable rights.” As Secretary-General of the then Organisation of African Unity (OAU) now African Union Dr Salim had reportedly led efforts that have resulted in the establishment of the Africa-China Forum (FOCAC), which has become important for the interests of African and Chinese people. Responding to the honour bestowed on him by the People’s Republic of China, Dr Salim has said: “It is truly a great honour for me. Really, I did not expect it,” according to the Chinese News Agency, Xinhua, quoting him in Dar es Salaam. “China’s prosperity over the past seven decades is a testament of the Chinese path for a great leap forward in economic development,” he added. He goes on: “It is anchored by those who see a bigger picture and always believe that we all have the capacity and ability to promote socioeconomic development and prosperity. He adds: “I believe that the relationship between Tanzanians and the people of China will foster mutual economic development between our two peoples. As we say in Kiswahili: Tupo pamoja–we are together.” Indeed, we are together-between us in Tanzania and China -especially at this moment in time when we mark the 20th anniversary of the demise of the Tanzanian founder President, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who courageously crossed the line to the “East”- an area so christened by western powers to discourage developing countries from cooperating with the socialist motherland of Chairman Mao. makwaia@spicenet.co.tz, makwaia@spicenet.co.tz, wakuhenga@gmail.com