THE Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation yesterday received a new office building worth $22m (about 50bn/-) expected to improve services. Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi, while receiving a six-storey building funded by the Chinese government, said the building marked one more chapter in the development of China-Tanzania relationship. “We are all honoured for support from the Chinese government. It is indeed another testimony to the importance of diplomatic relations that exist between Tanzania and the People’s Republic of China,” he noted. The minister, who described the friendship between the two countries as all-weather relationship, commended China for the magnificent state of the art building. “I wish to extend our sincere gratitude to construction workers who built this structure.” He explained that the building testified the deeprooted bond of the two countries. The event also coincided with the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China as well as the 55th anniversary of diplomatic relations the two countries. Prof Kabudi stressed that the achievements celebrated dated back to September 2012 when the two governments agreed to undertake the construction of the office building. The project is also a product of the implementation of the China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) fifth ministerial action plan in Addis Ababa 2012-2015. The building, which is located near the Julius Nyerere International Conference Centre (JNICC), comprises 117 executive rooms, conference rooms for various capacities, a library, a restaurant and other functional rooms. It can accommodate more than 400 people. For her part, Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Wang Ke said the project was rated as an excellent project by China’s Ministry of Commerce. The ambassador said the building had come at the right time after Tanzania took over the chairmanship of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in August this year. The building will greatly facilitate the ministry and other departments to hold SADC meetings at JNICC. The diplomat further said China and Tanzania had been all-weather friends since the establishment of bilateral diplomatic relations in 1964 and together had made many brilliant achievements in the past 55 years. She further added that China attached great importance to bilateral cooperation with Tanzania and would continue supporting Tanzania’s economy. After the FOCAC Beijing Summit last September, the two parties have agreed on a list of priority projects for cooperation and those projects are being discussed and hopefully will be implemented soon.