SOME girls from the informal system of education, based in the Kisarawe District in the Coast Region have benefited with trainings of being independent economically provided by the 'Her Initiative' and Women in Law and Development in Africa (WiLDAF) – Tanzania. Speaking in Kisarawe yesterday, Her Initiative’s Founder and Executive Director, Ms Lidya Charles, said the training it goes in line with the new project dubbed’ Plan B’ which aimed to help young girls and women to be independent and reduce poverty among them. She made the remarks during the three-day training, which held in Kisarawe district, that the Education provided by Her Initiative that aimed to help girls who are not in formal school program and gender based violence victims in the country. Ms Charles, further said, the other aim of the training is to provide them with knowledge, skills and to connect with stakeholders and banking institutions that will assist small loans through their business projects. “Our new project called Plan B aimed to bring smile to the young girls 13- 21 aged who are not in school and they have faced gender based violence, also to eliminate gender based violence through using the economic empowerment method and developing business ideas, ”she said. According to her, we hope after the training they will become self-sufficient and self-employed and not being dependent in community. She noted that, they are planned to establish Plan B centers which will helps these girls to exchange ideas and they plan to expand the scope and reach other girls country wide. On the same occasion, a Lawyer from WiLDAF-Tanzania, Mr Stephen Shishira said girls and young women have the right to be free from violence constitutionally, legally and nationally. On her side one among the participants, said the education provided is excellent, will be in line with plan B project, and will be a great help to us and to our fellow girls who are not in formal education system. WiLDAF – Tanzania is a Pan Africa Network Organization, strategically linking Law and Development for the betterment of women’s lives, the organization was established and registered in Tanzania since 1997. It has 20 years of experience and excellent record of accomplishment to advance women’s rights and their status in Tanzania. This is because gender equality is not only a fundamental right, but also a necessary foundation for peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world.