TANZANIA is preparing an implementation report of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Diversity of Cultural Expressions 2005 which will be submitted for the first time to Unesco in April next year. The country’s report on the progress of the implementation of the convention is intended to contribute to a global report on the Convention published every four years basing on quadrennial periodic reports submitted by states parties. Tanzania Film Board Acting Executive Secretary, Dr Kiagho Kilonzo, said in Dar es Salam yesterday that the government was confident with the national team working on the report. Dr Kilonzo was speaking on behalf of Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, at the opening of a multi-stakeholder awareness raising and consultation meeting on the convention. He said by April next year the report would have been completed and ready for use not only in the country, but also globally. “Tanzania is preparing this report for the first time since the ratification of the Convention in 2011...the report will enable the country to contribute to the global report on the Convention 2005,” he said. He explained that the government was supporting and prioritising culture and creative industry as it believed it was one the fastest growing industries that empowered the youth for the provision of employment in the country. ” Dr Kilonzo said the government provided a favourable environment for the creation, production and dissemination of culture and creative industry goods and services. “The aim of the government to ratify this Convention is to create opportunities and keep artists close to world market, especially when there are more than 120 countries which ratified Convention 2005,” he said. Head of office and Unesco Representative in Tanzania, Tirso Dos Santos said his office was committed to supporting the government to report its progress on the implementation of the Convention. He explained that Tanzania’s report would contribute to the global report on the Convention 2005 which served as the world’s report scorecard on the protection and promotion of cultural expressions. Mr Santos noted that Swedish International Cooperation Agency (SIDA) agreed to fund the SIDA II to assist in the process of reporting on the Convention. He said the SIDA II aimed at strengthening the capacity of governments and civil societies to monitor and report on policies and measures that protected and promoted the diversity of cultural expressions. Mr Santos explained that with the support of national and international experts, Tanzania was poised to successfully develop and submit its national quadrennial report in the first quarter of 2020.