THE High Court’s Commercial Division has ordered two Chinese companies to pay Mohamed Enterprises Tanzania Limited (MeTL) Group’s third largest subsidiary company about 10bn/- for breach of contract relating to the purchase of soft drinks packaging machines for its factory. Judge Steven Magoiga ruled against Techlong Packaging Machinery Limited and Hong Kong Hua Yun Industrial Limited, the defendants, after granting default judgment in favour of A-One Products and Bottlers Limited, the plaintiff, the Tanzania’s leading producer of drinking water and flavoured drinks. He ordered the defendants jointly and severally to pay the plaintiff $4,845,362 plus interests at 15 per cent of commercial rate from the date of payment of the invoice amount was paid to Techlong Packaging Machinery Limited through Hong Kong Hua Yun Industrial Limited until the judgment date. Other payments include interest on decretal amount at the court’s rate of 11 per cent per annum from the date of judgment until the decree was fully satisfied. The defendants were also ordered to pay costs of the suit. Default judgment is a binding judgment in favour of either party based on some failure to take action by the other party. It is a judgment in favour of a plaintiff when the defendant has not heeded a summons or has failed to appear before a court of law. According to the High Court (Commercial Division) Procedure Rules, 2012, the plaintiff who wants the court to grant default judgment in his favour must prove three elements, including proof of service to the defendant, but who has failed to file a written statement of defence. Furthermore, the plaintiff must make an application in prescribed form and the application must be accompanied by an affidavit in proof of the claim. When considering the suit, the judge noted that the defendants had not filed their written statements of defence in respect of the suit. The court observed further that the gist of the suit was non-performance of a contract on the part of the defendants for failure to deliver bottles bought or refund $112,140 paid through Stanbic Bank. It is stated in the plaint, in the witness statements and in the affidavit in proof of the claim that, failure to supply 240/260ml bottles changeover parts along with line or mold only rendered the bottles functionless, but caused the plaintiff to suffer a loss of business to the tune of $1,797,325,409. Furthermore, it was stated in the three documents filed in court that production losses due to the extra changeover time and integrated line efficiency caused a loss of $472,903 and another loss of $563,062 for late supply of 1.7 litres blow bottles changeover parts. Lastly, there was a claim of loss of business due to non-supply of bottle changeover for filler and shrinking wrapping which is $1,899,931.46. In the judgment, the judge concluded that the plaintiff proved that the defendants were timely served, but failed to file a written statement of defence. He noted further that even where extension of time was granted for filing the defence, none was filed. Having scrutinised the documents filed by the plaintiff, the judge was satisfied that he had been able to prove his claims as prayed in the plaint on a balance of probability. “This being the case, I hereby and unhesitatingly hold that the plaintiff is entitled to default judgment as prayed in the plaint,” the judge declared. He advanced three reasons to support his position on the matter. The judge stated that the plaintiff’s intention to buy the bottles was calculated and intended for the use of his business and the defendant had a legal duty upon being paid consideration to supply the relevant parts of the bottles to the satisfaction of the plaintiff. “So, failure to perform the obligation as agreed, it cannot be other than that the defendants are in breach of the contract and the plaintiff is entitled to loss profit. Failure to supply changeover parts, the plaintiff suffered a loss which is to be atoned,” he said. Another reason assigned is to the effect that the affidavit in proof of the claim when read together with the plaint, the witness statement alongside with the exhibits tendered, gives a true picture of what transpired in the suit. ` “There is ample evidence even how the plaintiff arrived at those figures she is claiming in the plaint. The calculations made are sufficient to grant the amount as prayed in the absence of other evidence to the contrary,” the judge further said. He concluded by stating that all email communications and how the plaintiff was affected legally qualified the plaintiff to be entitled to the claims in the plaint.