A feminist is just somebody, not necessarily a woman, who believes in the potential of women to get to the highest possible level of development, given the facilities a society makes available, just as any man. Feminism is an Ideology like African socialism etc. A man too can be a Feminist!” Ama Ata Aidoo gave this piece of thought during an interview with the BBC’s HARDtalk a couple of years ago. The lady is a leading author, poet, playwright, academic, and former Minister of education in Ghana. Still, despite the above clear quote, to most of us, Feminism seems to be stamped as a group of women who are against men or even hate men! This shows how confused or rather ignorant we are towards this concept ‘Feminism!’ Among Tanzanian Feminists whom I have been admiring for her tireless contribution to our society throughout some decades, and also her unique style of ‘pausing’ which makes every artist enjoy ‘illustrating’ her is DEMERE KITUNGA. A renowned book publisher, Editor, Writer and Translator, Consultant and Development Practitioner in Gender, Participatory Facilitation & Action Research, as well as Readership Promotion, Literary Communication and Book Development. “I am a feminist literacy for empowerment activist. My area of expertise and contribution to the movement is in facilitating processes for knowledge generation and dissemination.” Demere was born 65 years ago in Suji village on the slopes of Pare Mountains, in Same District, Kilimanjaro region. Born to Mkude Aroni Mcharo and Fryer Kitunga, Demere went to three Primary schools, Suji Primary and middle school (1961 to 1963 and 1967); Maore and Kilaweni Primary Schools. After Primary education, she attended Weruweru Secondary School for her O-level under Mama Maria Kamm as headmistress and then finalized her A-level at Korogwe Girls High School (in Tanga), under Mama Thabita Siwale as headmistress. Immediately after graduation, she went through the compulsory National Service at Makutupora camp in Dodoma. Demere earned her first degree, B.A. Hon in linguistics and literature at the University of Dar-es-Salaam - in 1980, and later on a Masters of Philosophy in Bibliographic studies (publishing) at the Stirling University, in Scotland, United Kingdom. For almost a decade, Demere was employed at the Dar-es-Salaam University Press (DUP) as editor and managing editor (1980 – 1987). She later worked at Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) as Documentation Manager (1987); and freelance Production Editor and researcher. Between 1986 and 1996, Demere was hired as Program Officer at the SNV Tanzania, “responsible in theformulation, appraisal, and monitoring of the development of programs, especially on aspects of gender and training.” Furthermore, the lady attended several short courses, within the country as well as abroad. Among the courses were on: Gender Analysis and planning Women and Autonomy at the Leijden University in the Netherlands, in 1991 & 1993, but also attended a Project Management and Program Administration in the Netherlands in 1993. Organizational development and strategic thinking at the Harare Management Institution, in Zimbabwe, in 1997 etc. “I am a founder of several activist organizations and mentor of many young women and men.” Indeed, the permanently busy Demere has been spear-heading organizational Development, Movements Building and advocacy. So far, she has initiated or is a founding member of; (1) Tanzania Gender Networking Program (TGNP), one of the leading feminist advocacy organisation; Where she worked as Program Advisor in the 90s for about 2 years. “I am also the founding editor of ‘Ulingo wa Jinsia;’ a quarterly newsletter published by TGNP.” (2) HAKIELIMU (3) East African Sub-regional Support Initiative for the advancement of Women (ESSI) (4) The African Feminist Forum (AFF). Additionally, Demere is also a founding member of Nafasi art Space. Member of the SADDC parliamentarians committee’s Gender Advisory group, Gender and Women’s Rights Programme of Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa (OSISA) etc. Demere is the founding Director and co-owner of E & D Limited, Editorial Services and Publishing Consultancy. This is a holding company with two subsidiaries “E & D Vision Publishing Limited, which I co-managed from 1998 – 2007 and E & D readership and Development Agency – SOMA, which I am the Executive Director since its inception in 2007.” She insists that her passion is “to promote readership as a way of empowering girls and boys; women and men...” The lady is tirelessly working as a consultant for several Institutions and NGOs, undertaking commissioned assignments in various fields of work related to gender, book development and participatory facilitation. “I have authored 3 and translated 12 published children books, as well as participated in countless selected writings.” Deviating slightly from Ama Ata Aidoo our DEMERE KITUNGA believes that “Feminism is an Ideology premised on gender equality and women’s empowerment; and that men too can champion this cause.” I am truly glad to have adapted some positive Feminism in me too. Hope many other fellow men are feeling the same. Let us just relax at the ‘SOMABook Cafe’ with DEMERE, the lady is worthy to be illustrated. David Kyungu is a veteran cartoonist, actor, illustrator, journalist, film, radio & TV director/producer based in Dar-es-Salaam. matatizomedia@gmail.com