EDUCATION, Science and Technology Minister, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, unveiled has a demand-driven training for youth skills, knowledge and employment programme targeting to seal the skills gap. The programme entitled “Youth enhancement through Skills enhancement-YES project” funded by Helvetas Tanzania is a three-year project implemented in Dodoma and Singida rural districts benefiting at least 3,000 women and men aged between 15 and 30 years old. Speaking on behalf of the minister, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology Director of Administration Moshi Kabengwe said skills formed a crucial component for the prospective workforce in the country. “It allows that the youth who form the majority population in the country should be employed and skilled to run their own small and medium scale economic activities,” he said. “This programme will empower the youth whose majority have been involved in violence that risks the country’s peace and security.” The director noted that as the government envisioned transforming the economy into a middle-income economy, both industries and factories needed the skilled force. YES Project Manager Africanus Chalamila noted that the project had identified at least 11 institutions, including VETA and JKT Makutupora, to help provide training in cooking, construction, electrical installation, motorcycle mechanics, poultry farming, gardening, hotel management and agribusiness. He said each year the project targeted to provide training to at least 1,000 young people from two districts. “The project is based on supporting the youth to acquire employability skills by sponsoring their training… benefiting institutions are also required to highlight market demand and help graduates obtain jobs,” he said. Vocational Education Training Authority (VETA) senior market analyst Julius Mjelwa said some young people had a negative attitude towards investors. “The investor is not happy with employees who have a negative altitude,” he said. However, he explained that the government had adopted the Technical Education Vocational Training (TVET) strategy that strove to offer relevant skills needed in the labour market. He explained that the strategy provided a full-scale curriculum that considered people from various social and economic backgrounds. Ms Elizabeth Msainu one of the beneficiaries thanked the government and project implementers, saying it had empowered her and she could take care of herself, her three children and her mother.