AS the nation gears up to mark 20th anniversary of the death of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the government through the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology has spent 772m/-to renovate Mwisenge Primary School, located in Musoma, Mara Region. It was at Mwisenge Primary School where Mwalimu Nyerere started his education journey in 1934 before he went on to ‘conquer the world’ and later threw his weight into liberation struggle of the then Tanganyika and Africa. The renovation of the school is an implementation of President John Magufuli‘s directives he issued when he visited the school last year. The president, among other things, called upon the ministry to come up with an actual cost analysis so that major rehabilitation could be carried out as a befitting tribute for the contribution that Mwalimu Nyerere made towards the country’s independence struggle and leadership. Speaking during a tour organized by the Ministry of Education, Education, Science and Technology, Mwisenge Primary School Head Teacher, Mr Jones Lumbe commended the fifth phase government for the support as the school was in bad shape. He said the renovation of the school with 1662 pupils started in April this year, and the work involved construction of a 53,200- metre fence, renovation of 29-classrooms, dining hall, teachers’ houses, and dispensary. A dormitory is expected to be complete by the end of next month. Mr Lumbe said the upgrading of the infrastructure has been a blessing since the school can now accommodate more pupils, saying they receive most of the students from far because most of them want to be part and parcel of Mwalimu Nyerere’s legacy by attending schools which the late Nyerere went to. He told journalists that the school which also accommodates children with albinism and with special needs can now accept more which will make them meet Mwalimu’s philosophy of education for all, regardless of one’s disability. “Before renovations, we were able to accommodate only 99 pupils, but the government facilitated construction of a new dormitory which can accommodate 80 more students, and which eased congestion in the dormitories which were there since colonial times,” he said. The school which is located 48-kilometers from Nyerere’s homeland was designed for children from the chief Kingdom starting offering the services since 1924. The school usually receives a big number of visitors who are curious to get a glimpse of the history of the founding father, and the school has done a commendable job of preserving the room, classroom and the desk which Mwalimu used at the school. Earlier, Head of Government Communication Unit in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Ms Sylvia Lupembe said President John Magufuli visited the school in September last year and was not impressed by the state of the school, and directed the Minister for Education to conduct an analysis on the actual needs and cost for rehabilitation. In response, she said the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako visited the school with her experts in October to access the cost and agreed on the mode before issuing the fund.