EXPORT and Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) has said the proposed establishment of inland dry port at the Morogoro based Star City Special Economic Zone to be integrated with the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) will decongest the Dar es Salaam port. The EPZA Director General Col (rtd) Joseph Simbakalia said in an exclusive interview that the dry port will provide clearance services of transit cargo destined for the six land-linked countries of Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Malawi, Zambia, Rwanda and Uganda. The ongoing construction of the SGR which is passing through the Star City development project will connect the dry port designated on the 500 acres of land. He said the dry port to be constructed in the 500 acres of land set aside under the EPZA consultation will provide all the needed customs services for the transit cargo clearance. “Apart from the transit cargo clearance, the integration of the dry port with the SGR will help clearance of imported raw materials for the industries within the Star City Special Economic Zone,” he said. He said the SGR set to commence its operation next year will start ferrying cargo to the dry port thus decongesting the Dar port as most of the transit cargo to be handled as well as reduce traffic jam in the Morogoro road. Also, it will give experience to the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) ferrying cargo to the inland dry port. The Star City Special Economic Zone sponsors are Dominion Plantation Limited (DPL) owned by Tanzanians with 51 per cent share and Hyflux Limited from Singapore 49 per cent share. The establishment of mineral processing industries namely, smelting and refining facilities through the Export Processing Zones guarantee exports of 80 per cent of the processed products. The establishment of industries through SEZ would provide some employment opportunities and there could be spillover benefits for related industries through knowledge and technological transfer. The EPZA’s total capital investment through the Export Processing Zones and Special Economic Zones projects hit 2.6 billion US dollars, export revenue worth 1.3 billion US dollars and over 50,000 directed jobs created by January this year.