PRESSURE is mounting on Young Africans Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera to step down saying he has run out of technical tactics to propel the team further. Yanga now face a slim chance to step into the CAF Champions League group stage after losing 2-1 to Pyramids FC in the first leg match at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Sunday, hence will have to play lungs out during the second clash on Sunday next week to sail in the next round. It was the hosts who laboured to get a goal from the tense game in the 88th minute via captain Papy Tshishimbi which restored back hopes ahead of the reverse tie in Cairo, Egypt. However, a reliable source from the club who spoke on anonymity, admitted that there is mistrust between the coach and some leaders within the team, a situation he said is highly contributing to the team’s unconvincing performance in crucial fixtures. “The coach has divided the squad such that there are players he prefers to be given playing time even though their performance is not such good while others, despite being in good form, are left out without any reasons,” he said. Even after the Pyramids clash in Mwanza, some angry Yanga fans spoke against the coach insisting that time has come for him to leave the team and let others come in with fresh ideas. “Imagine I came all the way from Tabora to watch this game but in the end, we have played poorly and lost the game. This is painful for us die hard Yanga supporters. How will I return back home with this type of embarrassment? His (Zahera) time is over and should leave,” said one of the fans who voiced out his concerns after the encounter. Another concerned fan also reiterated that the entire technical bench should be dismantled and bring new people to push the team forward. “It seems the leaders are content with these results. I have come from very to watch this match but the performance displayed is far from what some leaders of the club claims,” the supporter who was not immediately identified said. He added that Yanga should create a new system of management which he said will lead to the formation of the competitive squad capable to do well in major competitions. In his remarks, Yanga Assistant Coach Noel Mwandila admitted the tactical approach used by Pyramids FC gave them problems especially in the first half. “In the second half, we came back stronger and scored one goal which is not bad,” Mwandila said. He added that playing with one striker was not a shield for the unconvincing results claiming that it does not matter with how many strikers you use in a match but rather how they adapt to the team’s chemistry. Meanwhile, Alexander Sanga reports from Mwanza that Yanga assistant coach Noel Mwandila has promised his team will work hard to make sure they are winning their CAF confederation Cup’s second leg match against Pyramids FC. "It was a tough game, first half Pyramids had the game plan of pumping forward and in the first ten minutes they kept a lot of pressure. My boys made two mistakes and they punished us’’ He said. He added lack of concentration allowed their opponents to score the second goal. The former Zesco united tactician also blamed match centre referee, Kalilou Traore Ibrahim(Ivory coast) for giving Kelvin Yondani red card was which was not fair. "Both red cards we got our match against Zesco united and today’s card are not fair, Yondani didn’t deserve the first yellow card.’’ He said. He called upon Yanga SC to continuing supporting their team in the second leg also.