THE ten-cell system introduced by the late Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere during his leadership, is still relevant in safeguarding peace and security, a study has revealed. Under the ten-cell leadership system, commonly referred to as ‘Nyumba Kumi Kumi’, the leaders and the citizens in general were required to know people living in the 10 houses around them and report to the relevant authority any suspicious alien. According to academicians, although the system was introduced decades ago, but it should be considered when addressing issues related to national defence and security as it proved to be effective in maintaining peace. Presenting findings on the survey conducted by the University of Dar es Salam on the Role of Community in the Provision of Local Peace, the Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE) Principal, Prof Benardeta Killian said that issues of national peace should be considered from the grassroots. Prof Killian was speaking at the Mwalimu Nyerere Commemorative Conference organised by the University of Dar es Salaam in collaboration with Uongozi Institute. She noted that the survey conducted in seven regions in the country involving 600 participants indicated that ten cell leaders were the most effective in maintaining peace in their localities by 49.4 per cent followed by police 30 per cent and the remaining 20.6 per cent was attributed to other organs. Prof Killian revealed that according to the survey, though people were engaging in various economic, social and political activities, they were also finding out ways of protecting themselves without depending on the police. "There are various ways deployed by the people to ensure peace and security in their localities and one of them was ten cell system which was initiated by the late father of the nation Mwalimu Nyerere many years ago," Prof Killian said. She said that 20 years after Nyerere’s death, the system was still prevailing, although during the one party system it was part of the government but it was disrupted after the country re-introduced multiparty system where it remained under the ruling party. Prof Killian further said that when interviewed about the existence of ten cell system in their localities, 90.4 per cent of people admitted to have the system in place while , 9.6 per cent lacked it. She also asserted that 48 per cent of the interviewees said that in case of breach of peace in their localities they report to ten cell leaders, 39.4 per cent to local government authorities while 8.5 to police force. On existence of peace in their areas, 94.7 per cent admitted their localities to be most peaceful, 3.6 per cent average while one per cent said that there was no peace in their areas. She, however, noted that the findings were corresponding with this year's Global Peace Index which ranked Tanzania the most peaceful nation in East Africa and the 7th in sub- Saharan Africa. “Studies have shown that there is a huge correlation between people's perception about peace and the Global Peace Index ranking," Prof Killian said. As Tanzania tops the list in the EAC region in the GPI 2019, it is followed by Rwanda, which is ranked second in EAC region, but occupies the 17th slot in sub-Saharan region. Uganda is ranked third in the EAC bloc, but is ranked the 23rd in sub-Saharan Africa, while Kenya comes fourth, but is ranked the 28th and Burundi comes fifth, but takes the 36th slot, while South Sudan is ranked sixth in the EAC bloc, but the 44th in sub- Saharan Africa. The survey was conducted last year in Arusha, Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Kagera, Coast, Mwanza and Mtwara regions.