THE government has directed Tanesco and Rural Electrification Agency (REA) to ensure all electrical accessories needed in the installation of power transmission lines are manufactured in the country. Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani, gave the directive yesterday, saying by December this year no imported electrical accessories would be allowed to be used by Tanesco and REA to install power transmission lines. “Imported accessories have a long chain of approval... it is because of this that Tanesco and REA must come up with an alternative solution by December 31 when all such accessories will be suspended,” the minister told the Rural Energy Board (REB) and REA management in the city. He said state firms had to agree with foreign manufacturers so that such accessories could be produced in the country. He also wanted REB and REA to hold talks with Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) on the best way possible to clear such goods currently still at ports. This will speed up the implementation of numerous projects pending clearance by TRA. “Negotiations should also help timely clearance of consignments of imported equipment,” he stressed. During the meeting, the board suggested that all rural energy contractors implementing the first phase of REA III must be under special supervision. Their request to the minister who also conceded to it alleged that the contractors had been too slow in project implementation, thus they needed extra supervision. Such concern prompted the minister to call for a thorough assessment of the implementation of REA III projects that would, among other things, outline best and poor performing contractors. “We need to be able to identify underperforming contractors who must be placed under close monitoring and special supervision,” he said. The government plan is to ensure at least each contractor lights up three villages every week and a contractor may be at a better position to hire more staff. The implementation of the second phase of REA III is scheduled to start effectively in January 2020