A LOCAL company, GLOBAL Education Link is planning to provide loans without interest to students of higher learning institutions studying in the country as a move to relieve parents from low income families the burden of struggling to pay their fees. The pledge was made recently in Dar es Salaam by the company’s Director, Abdulmalik Mollel, while presiding over Tusiime Secondary School Form Four graduation ceremony. Currently, the company provides such loans to students who pursue studies abroad in different universities, and subject their parents to payback by installment without any interest. Mollel said that they came up with the idea after seeing many parents struggling to send their children abroad with meager or no funds at hand. “I have had school fees challenges in your (Tusiime Secondary School) headmaster’s speech, hence I would declare that Global Education Link will see how to overcome such situation, and provide loans without any interest to students, who pursue studies in different universities locally in the country,” he said. The Director further noted that his company would also talk to Tusiime management to see how such loans should also be extended to parents, whose children study at the institution, but face challenges in paying school fees. He said that he gave the school the opportunity because it has been their stakeholder in education sector and private implementers, which help the fifth phase government to improve education quality in the country. Mr Mollel hinted that the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli has done a commendable job in all sectors, all for the sake of the citizens’ development. “President Magufuli is doing wonders and the world knows. He is a great leader and because of his good performance, many countries send their people to Dar es Salaam to learn his leadership and implementation skills,” he added. Expounding, he also congratulated the school’s Head teacher, Emil Rugambwa and their Director Albert Katagira for having groomed and prepared the students well to be disciplined, which has made them excel in exams. In a related development, Mollel also pledged to assist the school with 400 bag of cement to construct a Hall that would help them in different activities, including graduation ceremonies. On his part, Mr Rugambwa commended Mr Mollel and his company for the offer and assistance, especially to enable students study locally and outside the country without facing fees burden. Equally, he applauded the company apart from enhancing their studies economically; it was also making a follow up academic performance and social life, saying: “Global Education Link is an important partner not only to Tusiime School, but also to the education sector in the country. You visited our school recently and gave guidance to our students on how to select universities, and courses they need to pursue.” In a related development, Mr Rugambwa rebuffed grapevine rumours that the school is selective, when it comes to enrolling students, saying that all are welcome and would be sharpened rigorously in the realm of academics to do wonders in national examinations. “Our school enrolls even students living with different disabilities, who have been rejected by other schools for the reason that they don’t have infrastructures suitable to accommodate them,” he added. Explaining further, he thanked his staff for their dedication to see into it that the school and students always shine in Form Two, Four and Six national examinations.