TANZANIA stands a better chance of uplifting its people from abject poverty and accelerating the achievements of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) if it will invest heavily in agriculture and link this key sector to the industrialisation agenda, a United Nations agency has declared. UN Development Programme (UNDP) Resident Representative in Tanzania Ms Chris-tine Musisi told this paper in an exclusive interview that as the government pushes for industralisation it should also invest more in agriculture to enable the agenda have impact to the majority of the population. Agriculture is Tanzania’s mainstay of the economy which employs an estimated 77 per cent of the population in the rural areas. Ms Musisi granted the interview ahead of the UN Day commemoration which marked the 74th anniversary of the entry into force in 1945 of the UN Charter. The celebration is annually observed on October 24. “We know that the government is driving towards industrialisation but what could make that work and what could enable that agenda to impact the most vulnerable and the poorest sections of the society, is to invest fully in the agricultural sector,” she said. “Linking agriculture to industrialisation would have a positive impact to the majority Tanzanians wallowing in poverty,” she explained. She said since the majority of Tanzanians live in rural areas and depend on agriculture, improved production and productivity using innovative approaches and methods, value addition and empowering communities are factors which would improve their conditions. “This will increase income, local and national revenue and also move towards the industrialisation agenda that is peoplecentred,” Ms Musisi noted. She said although agriculture contributes up to almost 24 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), it can contribute more if productivity was improved, better farming practices were adopted as well as value addition. However, the UN agency representative said although Tanzania was making good progress in implementing the 17 SDGs, more efforts were needed in order to attain them. “Tanzania very recently presented its Voluntary National Review Report at the High Level Political Forum. To share where it is on delivering the Sustainable Development Agenda and I think like many countries, the country has already started setting the right policies and frameworks for implementation of the Sustainable Development Agenda,” she said. She said, for example, that government has increased budget allocations for primary and universal education which also aimed to improve quality education and increase enrolments in all levels of the educational ladder.