THE number of small scale dairy producers has been increasing in Kilimanjaro Region in recent years, a move that has been described as one of the areas that has improved the well-being of those involved with the dairy sector, both directly and indirectly. In such developments there are many and varied challenges for cattle breeders, dairy products’ traders and all those working in the dairy industry. These potential challenges prompted the establishment of the Kilimanjaro Dairy Innovative Platform (KDIP) which according to stakeholders who saw its formation said it meant to bring together dairy sector stakeholders with the intention of joining forces in addressing issues regarding the dairy sector. The establishment of the forum is one of the major outcomes of the project which is implemented by the Netherlands Development Organization, SNV, which is known as Transforming Agricultural Markets in Dairy (TAM). The project is funded by the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID). Tom Ole Sikar who is the SNV Project Manager (Dairy) said during the launch of the dairy stakeholders platform that the Netherlands organization partnered with other stakeholders in establishing the dairy stakeholders’ platform which she says includes Match Makers Associates (MMA), Capacity Building Organization (CABO) and the Kilimanjaro Dairy Co-operative Joint Enterprise (JE), which represents 22 dairy sector related co-operative societies. “Dairy stakeholders met in Bomang’ombe, Hai District, in Kilimanjaro Region in December, 2018, whereby the proposal for the formation of a dairy platform was raised, hence the establishment of the KDIP this year”, he says. He continues to say that the process of establishing the platform which was launched by the Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Anna Mghwira, started as a result of efforts by dairy stakeholders who were anxious to join forces that would enable them to identify different opportunities found in the dairy sector in Kilimanjaro, as well as challenges facing the sector and discuss on how to address them. According to him, the Kilimanjaro Dairy innovative Platform is a unique opportunity to connect the entire dairy sector value chain stakeholders who will be able to use the platform to raise their voices in commenting on the various policies which are related to the dairy industry. The launching of the KDIP on October 3, 2019, coincided with launching of the Milk ATM project, another achievement as far as the dairy sector in Kilimanjaro Region is concerned. The project named Dairy Profit, is funded by the European Union and implemented in Tanzania by Match Maker Associates (MMA). Mr Mkani Waziri is the Dairy Profit Project Manager; According to him, the Milk ATM project is meant to provide consumers with quality pasteurized and safe milk using Milk ATMs. “The milk dispensing technology through Milk ATMs is a new innovation in Tanzania, whereby through this project, Tanzanians will be able to buy from a reliable source quality pasteurized milk which is safe and ready for consumption”, he says. He adds, “Under this project, consumers will also be able to buy the quantity of milk as par their amount of money they have and this is due to the fact that there are some people who can’t afford to buy milk in supermarkets because of the big prices which are caused by the high costs of milk packaging materials”. He continues to say that the new project would also match the Government’s policy which is aimed at making Tanzania a mid-economy country through industrialisation, a goal which he said as far as the Milk ATM project is concerned, could be achieved when the number of milk consumers in the country continue to raise. “The rising number of milk consumers means the increasing demands for milk dispensing equipment; this will create an economic opportunity to local technicians who will be challenged to embark on projects meant to manufacture Milk ATMs, so as to avoid the high costs of importing them from abroad”, he explains. The Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Ms Anna Mghwira hailed all the stakeholders for establishing the dairy platform as well as the introduction of the Milk ATM project, a move she said will improve the dairy sector in Kilimanjaro Region. “The establishment of the Kilimanjaro Dairy Innovative Platform as well as the introduction of the Milk ATM Project, is a good idea which will raise the dairy industry hopes among stakeholders in the dairy sector, who work round the clock to ensure efficiency in the availability of dairy products in the market, everyday”, she said, adding: “The challenge ahead now is to make sure that education is provided to dairy stakeholders especially cattle keepers are subject to education concerning the dairy farming in order to ensure productivity and a sustainable future for the dairy industry”.