EXECUTION of huge strategic projects reflects the government’s grit to live the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere’s legacy and vision. Already, Tanzanians are getting ready to commemorate 20 years without the founding father of the nation who died in a UK hospital on October 14, 1999. Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba Kabudi said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that execution of mega projects like Nyerere Hydropower, relocation of government capital to Dodoma, review of mining laws to ensure the resources benefit Tanzanians and improved delivery of social services— health, water and education— is meant to glorify Mwalimu’s vision. Professor Kabudi was speaking on behalf of President John Magufuli at Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Commemorative Conference at the University of Dar es Salaam. He said Mwalimu had a number of constructive visions, which could not be realised during his leadership. “The government under President Magufuli has demonstrated commitment to work on Mwalimu’s dreams, among them, shifting the country’s capital from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma,” he said, elaborating that the capital relocation was the brain child of Mwalimu Nyerere over 40 years ago. “Dr Magufuli issued an executive order to relocate all government ministries and departments to Dodoma. Gave us only six months to shift and the move has succeeded because we are now settled in the new capital city, Dar es Salam remains the commercial city,” he said. He further argued that the late Nyerere initiated a key power project—Nyerere Hydropower—which could not be executed during his reign but under Dr Magufuli, the 7tri/- project, which will boost power supply in the country by generating 2,115 megawatts, is well underway. “The two key projects were among the dreams that Mwalimu couldn’t realise due to fund shortage,” the country’s chief diplomat said, adding: “There are peoplequestioning the government’s focus on strategic projects but they are in honour of Mwalimu legacy in education, health and water sectors.” He said the government also advocates protection of the country’s resources as Mwalimu did during his supremacy. Professor Kabudi said various reforms in the mining sector, including review of mining laws and contracts, aimed at enabling Tanzanians to benefit from the resources. He said talks between the government and Barrick Gold have yielded positive results, already enabling the country to get its fair share from the mining giant. Minister Kabudi noted that plans were underway to establish a joint venture mining firm whose headquarters will be in Mwanza City to oversee Buzwagi, Ulyankulu and North Mara Mines. He also said talks between the government and Bharti Airtel International have enabled the country to own 49 per cent shares besides the 1bn/- monthly for 60 months. Prof Kabudi said after assuming the presidency, Dr Magufuli worked for three months without the cabinet and saved the money, which was channeled to provision of fee-free education. The government disburses 23.278bn/- monthly to finance fee-free primary and secondary education in the country. The government has also improved health services through construction of 352 health centres and 67 district hospitals in a four-year period as well as boosting supply of medical drugs by increasing medical drugs and supplies budget from 31bn/- to 265bn/- . The University of Dar es Salaam, in honour of contribution by the likes of Mwalimu Nyerere, intends to publish names of people who donated money for the varsity’s establishment. UDSM Vice Chancellor Professor William Anangisye, speaking at the varsity and Uongozi Institute jointly organised conference, said the university was established on October 25, 1961, thanks to Mwalimu’s vision, efforts and urge to serve the people. Mwalimu played the leading role and other people donated money for the construction of the then University College of Dar es Salaam, said the don. “The goal is to ensure the university history is kept intact for the benefits of different generations. “Most importantly, people who have studied at UDSM should know that they have a big debt to serve the people,” said Professor Anangisye. He appreciated President Magufuli for walking in the footsteps of his predecessors, citing Mwalimu Nyerere who on several occasions convened forums with the academia from UDSM to share with them experiences on economic, social and development matters. Earlier, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Professor in Pan African Studies Rwekaza Mukandala said the conference was convened under the theme “Tanzania: Twenty years after Mwalimu.” Prof Mukandala disclosed that a study on whether the belief, ideals and principles of Mwalimu are being re-lived has been carried out and its preliminary findings will be presented at conference. “Researchers have assessed various principles, beliefs and actions of Mwalimu in various occasions to establish whether they have practically been forgotten or completely abandoned,” noted Prof Mukandala.