INDUSTRY and Trade Minister Innocent Bashungwa has challenged domestic manufacturers to aggressively grab market opportunities under the African Continental Free Trade Area (Af- CFTA). The trade facilitating initiative seeks to establish a single market for goods and services across the 54 African nations. The minister, speaking in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, told the domestic manufacturers to focus on selling their products and expanding to the regional markets that have become a that came into force last May, making Africa the world’s largest free trade area. “Be aggressive in looking for markets and opening branches in the East African Community (EAC), Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA),” Mr Bashungwa said at the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) organised President’s Manufacturer of the Year Awards. The African Union launched the operational phase of the AfCFTA in Niamey, Niger last July this year, creating one of the largest free trade areas since the formation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Africa’s current population of 1.2 billion is expected to grow to 2.5 billion by 2050. Tanzania is among countries that have not yet ratified the agreement pending internal consultations, Mr Bashungwa was quoted recently as saying. The minister said AfCFTA will provide more opportunities for domestic manufacturers to tap into the lucrative regional markets but at the same time expose the domestic market to imports, heightening competitions. AfCFTA means increased market access to other African countries, which will intensify competitiveness of industries and enterprises, increase opportunities for economies of scale and boost the efficacy of resource allocation, he said. The ministry, through working closely with the private sector, will continue to address problems that hamper efficiency and growth of the private sector. Minister Bashungwa mentioned some of the problems as delayed refunds of Value Added Tax (VAT) and 15 per cent withhold tax on industrial sugar importers, unlevelled playing field due to cheap imports like iron bars, plastic pipelines, clothes, leather and ceramic products. “We will also review the multiplicity of fees charged by various government regulatory institutions, import duties on raw materials and address delays in working permits to expatriate employees,” he assured. African leaders on Sunday launched the continental freetrade zone, which upon success, will unite 1.3 billion people, create 3.4 trillion US dollar economic bloc and usher in new era of development. It is hoped that the Af- CFTA—the largest since the WTO creation in 1994—will help to unlock Africa’s longstymied economic potentials by boosting intra-regional trade, strengthening supply chains and spreading expertise.