IN attempts to address challenges which face education sector in the country, NMB bank last week donated school items worth 230m/- to institutions in Kilimanjaro, Mwanza and Morogoro Regions, bringing to a total of 710m/- assistance it has so far offered since the beginning of this year. The revelation was made in Kilimanjaro Region recently by NMB bank Head of Government Business, Vicky Bishubo, while also handing over some medical equipment worth 85m/- to Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Anna Mghwira to distribute in six districts of Hai, Moshi, Rombo, Siha, Mwanga and Same. “The amount is part of 1bn/- we yearly set aside to address challenges in education, health and calamities, and equivalent to one per cent of the bank’s annual profit,” she added. Ms Bishubo noted that they released the amount after receiving several requests from Councils to assist their community projects, which in a way supports the government to bring development to the citizens. She singled them as Hai Municipality getting 10m/- for its health sector, Siha District 10m/- for its education purposes and Moshi Rural Council 5m/- for education improvements. The list also included Rombo District Council 15m/- for its health sector, Same 30m/- for its education, as Moshi Municipal was being waited to furnish its proposal priority to also get the funds. In Morogoro Region, NMB bank released some 5m/- for medical equipment to Morogoro Prison Management to cater for the remandees as well as five beds and their mattresses and two delivery beds for pregnant mothers including 25 bed sheets for all of them. Receiving iron sheets for roofing, tables and chairs as items from the bank, Morogoro Remandees Prison Head, Zephania Neligwa thanked the bank for the assistance, adding that still they are in need of 2.3m/- to purchase doors, windows and fans to ease pressure at the institution. For Arusha Region, the area Regional Commissioner (RC) Mrisho Gambo, received the donations for their education sector seen as iron sheets, tables and chairs that would be distributed to different Primary and Secondary schools all worth 105m/-. Handing over the items to the RC, NMB Business Department Manager, said Arusha Council would get a share worth 25m/-, Arusha City 20m/-, Longido 10m/-, Meru 5m/-, Monduli 15m/-, Ngorogoro 15m/- and Karatu 15m/-.