ALL is set for the Ernest Galinoma Memorial 'Swing and Sing fiddle' golf tournament to take place this month in Dar es Salaam. The annual tournament scheduled to tee off on October 26th at the Tanzania People's Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club is jointly organised by the club and Galinoma family. The 18-hole event will be played to pay homage to the former Lugalo Club Chairman Brigadier General Ernest Galinoma, who was also a good golfer. Alexander Galinoma the son of the late Galinoma, told the 'Daily News' in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that preparation is on a top gear for the event to take place. He said they are grateful to Lugalo club members who have been working closely together with the family to ensure event takes place as planned. Galinoma died on April17, 2016 at Mihimbili National Hospital before he was laid to rest at Kalenga village in Iringa region. He was one of the Lugalo Club founder members and supporter of the development of golf and his good foundation helped the club to remain at right direction even under the current Chairman Michael Luwongo. Like Luwongo, the late Galinoma was good supporter toward girls and ladies golf development and will be remembered forever by the entire golf fraternity. Alexander added that they plan to make a memorable event and he called upon golfers from around the country to come and take part in the event. According to Alexander the event is once again sponsored by Blade and they have prepared to give participants and winners what they deserve. " Blade has been there for the event since we started, we hope others will come forward in future to support the tournament as we gear up to ensure sustainability of the event and ensure it remains in the annual golf calendar," he said. " We welcome all golfers to join us, not only to play golf but also to unite with us in honouring Brigadier General (rtd) Galinoma, the sport he loved and contributed to its development," he said. He added that the day will be accompanied with other activities, including putting competition and golf clinic for adults and kids from local professional golfers.