BOOSTING cotton production is one of the current government objectives to push for textile industrialisation. Being one of key strategic crops in Tanzania, it is highly expected to contribute to the emerging industrialisation. It is going to play a big role in attaining the expected middle economy status by 2025. Currently, most of the produced cotton lint, approximately 80 per cent is sold outside the country mainly to the Far East countries and the remaining meager amount approximately 20 per cent is utilised locally. It is Government’s ambition to see the reverse, to utilise locally majority of cotton produced let us say more than 80 percent and exporting less than 20 per cent. According to the National Cotton Research Coordinator from Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI), Ukiliguru center, Dr Furaha Mrosso, this means Tanzania will utilize and export more goods made from cotton than it is for now. The advantage of this is job creation, stabilization of farm gate prices of seed cotton to our farmers and improving economy of the country. “To stimulate the above view, there should be a strategic reduction of imported second hand clothes, some fabrics and many other cotton-oriented goods. Parallel to the above, promoting use of locally cotton made materials from our industries; Dr Mrosso told the ‘Daily News’ during a telephone interview. Dr Mrosso pointed out that the Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute in collaboration with other Government and non-Government organs has started putting more efforts in conducting cotton research. Cotton provides the best natural fibre on earth. Germans first introduced it in Tanzania in early 19th century during colonial era with purpose of obtaining bulk produce under large-scale plantations in order to deliver raw materials for their textile industries abroad. Unfortunately the crop did not do well and during 1920s they started involving farmers to produce the crop on small-scale approach of which there was a paramount success. From this end onwards, cotton turned to be the crop of almost small holders in the country. It was grown commercially in eastern Tanzania. Production data of seed cotton shows that in 1,922 number of bales which were produced in the country was 7,250 (One bale weigh 181 kg of lint), out of this figure 4,000 (55 percent) bales were obtained from the eastern zone and 3,250 (45 percent) from the western zone. These zones are now known as Eastern Cotton Growing Areas (ECGA) and Western Cotton Growing areas (WCGA). In 1934, the situation had changed, the WCGA produced more cotton than the ECGA. Likewise out of the 50,000 bales produced in 1934, the 18,000 (36 percent) came from ECGA while 32 000 (64 percent) came from WCGA. Again in 2015 out of the 286,236 bales produced in the country, 285,359 (99.7 per cent) was produced in WCGA and 877 (0.3 percent) in ECGA. The ECGA currently comprises six regions, Manyara, Kilimanjaro, Tanga, Coast, Morogoro and Iringa while the WCGA have 11 which are: Simiyu, Mwanza, Mara, Shinyanga, Geita, Kagera, Kigoma, Singida, Dodoma, Tabora and Katavi. During the past three consecutive years, production has been increasing, for example, in 2016, 2017 and 2018 yields produced were 122, 133 and 222 million kilogrammes respectively. Moreover, this season (2018/2019), seed cotton yield is expected to be over 350 million kilogrammes where Simiyu region being the largest seed cotton producer. “The region has plan to build two factories one of them being textile and the other hospital hygienic products. This programme would trigger more seed cotton production not only in Simiyu but all over the WCGA. The release of high yielding variety by TARI Ukiriguru is one of key factors for the realized seed cotton increase. TARI Director General Dr Godffrey Mkamilo explained that these technologies are disseminated to the farmers in collaboration with other stakeholders mainly Tanzania Cotton Board, Cotton Victoria project, Gatsby Africa and Local Government Authorities. “All these collaborations are the Government’s initiative to increase cotton production in the country. In order to fasten dissemination process, various methods are employed; One of them is training through demonstrations by use of farmer field schools, informal mass training, radio broadcasting programmes, written materials etc, For an example, during the last cotton growing season, more than eight thousand (8 000) farmers were trained using mass method. Other tasks employed by TARI to increase cotton production is through delivering advices to Government and Non Government relevant bodies on all matters pertaining welfare of cotton. Over recently, three varieties of cotton were released, UK 171, UK 173 and UK 08. They have all good features ranging from field performance to textile operation qualities. These features are much more better than those of old varieties. The UK 08 is on commercial basis and it is the one which is currently being grown all-over Tanzania,” The national cotton research coordinator Dr Mrosso said. According to him, its yield range from 1,000 to 1,200 kilogramme g per acre, Ginning out turn (GOT) of 42.3 percent, good fibre characteristics i.e. 30.2 g/tex strength, it has 1.275 inches length and 4.03 mic/inch micronnaire. The second variety UK 171 is under seed maintenance, this variety has yield range of 1000 –1250 kg/acre, it’s GOT is 43.3 percent and fibre characteristics means strength of 28.33 g/tex, length 1.0956 inches and Micronnaire of 4.33 mic/inch. The third one UK 173 variety has yield range of 1000 to 1100 kg/acre, GOT of 43.6 per cent and fibre characteristics i.e. 27.08 g/tex, 1.105 inch length and 4.22 mic/inch micronnaire. The 173 variety, which is also bears, some resistance of the devastating disease (Fusarium wilt) is under field multiplication. “All these varieties are good and TARI would like to advice farmers to use them in order to have economic power and improve livelihood,” he emphased. TARI has recommended use of several interventions to supplement nutrients in soils intended for cotton production. The rate of applying Farmyard manure is 7.5 tonnes per ha, TSP (21 percent P) 15kgP/ha equivalent to 1.5 bags/ha, DAP (18:46:0) 15kgP/ha equivalent to one bag /ha, CAN (26 percent N) 30 kgN/ha equivalent to 2.5 bags/ha, UREA (46 percent N) 30kgN/ha) equivalent to 1.5 bags/ha. It is important to note that most of farmer fields have been exhausted of fertility because nutrient mining is in continuous process being carried every year with no or limited soil nutrient supplementation. Current status shows that only less than 5 percent of farmers applying industrial fertilizers. Farmers are urged to use industrial and non-industrial fertilizers to increase seed cotton yields. Plant spacing has been recommended for cotton 40 cm (within row) x 90 cm (between rows) leaving two plants per hole during thinning for the WCGA. In the ECGA, the recommended is 30 cm (within row) x 90 cm (between rows) leaving one plant per hole or 60cm x 90 cm leaving two plants per hole during thinning. He noted that one of challenges facing Cotton research is the availability of resources, one of them being research funds. The defined and elaborated ways of obtaining research funds are currently in place but are not well implemented by most of the cotton stakeholders. In turn, affects availability of funds resulting in limited or delayed cotton research outputs. Another challenge is that there is negative interference in the seed production chain. Production of seeds normally follow multiple stages starting from breeder seed production, pre-basic seed, basic seed, certified 1, certified 2 and so on in order to reach farmers in bulk,” he said. Dr Mrosso further noted that if these steps were interfered at any one stage would affect all chain of seed availability at farmers’ level. Following the fact that seed cotton intended for seeds in this production chain are always of high quality, they are attracted by seed cotton buyers for the purpose of getting good lint and seeds for pressing to obtain oil. In so doing, seed gap is created unnecessarily within the seed chain therefore the whole process of seed production loses its envisaged meaning. This puts forward unnecessary work and resources to the researchers to cover the gap.