YOUNG Africans whacked Friends Rangers 4-3 in a friendly match played yesterday at Police Officers ground, Kurasini in Dar es Salaam. Yanga’s Congolese striker David Molinga (Falcao) had a brace to his name on the day scoring in the 23rd and 27th minutes to continue putting his identity on the team’s scoring board Others who scored were Maybin Kalengo and skipper Papy Tshishimbi who has recovered from the injury list after missing the past Vodacom Premier League (VPL) clash against Coastal Union which his team won 1-0. On target for Friends Rangers were Lawrence Peter who scored in the 46th minute, Robert Mwaruka (86th ) and Abeid Kisiga who extended the lead for his side in the 89th minute of the match. It was a build-up match for Yanga as they expect to fly high the country’s flag in the CAF Confederation Cup when they play host to Egypt’s Pyramids FC in the first leg playoff match at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on October 27th. It has been reported that David Molinga and Mustafa Suleiman have been cleared to feature for Yanga during the forthcoming CAF duel. The Jangwani Street based side missed the opportunity to cruise into the CAF Champions League group stage following a 3-2 aggregate loss to Zambia’s Zesco United. The return match will be played on November 3rd in Cairo from where the successful team will sail into the group stage of the competition. However, before taking on the Pyramids, Yanga will be in a VPL action on October 22nd against Mbao FC at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza knowing in advance that a victory will be much better for them to continue climbing up the ladders on the league table. They will also use the game to scale up their weapons against the Pyramids who are also eager to make an impact in the continental football contest. Lately, Yanga sit on the 12th slot on the VPL ranking with four points from three matches while Mbao FC are placed on 11th position with six points from five games. A win over Mbao will see them reaching seven points, but on several occasions, Yanga has been facing tough resistance away when meet Mbao in league matches. Yesterday’s Yanga squad: Ramadhani Kabwili, Vincent Paschal, Muharami Issa ‘Marcelo’, Said Makapu, Mustafa Suleiman, Papy Kabamba Tshishimbi/Best Eliud, Mapinduzi Balama/ Said Mussa, Gustava Simon, David Molinga/Issa Bigirimana, Maybin Kalengo/ Adam Kiondo and Jaffar Mohammed/Deus Kaseke. 