TIGO Tanzania in partnership with Mastercard on Tuesday launched a campaign to reward customers for paying with Tigo Pesa Mastercard QR at any merchant location accepting Mastercard QR payments. The campaign aims to improve customer experience and make the service more accessible across the country. Speaking during the launch, Acting Chief Officer for Mobile Financial Service (MFS), Angelica Pesha said, “As a digital lifestyle company we are always coming up with solutions that make life easier for our customers." There is an increasing need for innovative and secure payment solutions that address market demand. Tigo Pesa Mastercard QR is a digital payment solution that lets the customer pay easily for products and services purchased from merchant outlets in the country accepting Mastercard QR.” “Tigo Pesa Mastercard QR presents an opportunity for greater financial inclusion because Tigo Pesa is now a fully-fledged financial service solution. With the Tigo Pesa Mastercard QR solution we are not only able to further strengthen our offering and ensure secure payments for all users, but also to bring much faster and more convenient payments to the fingertips of our customers,” Remarked Pesha. Director and Country Manager for Mastercard, Frank Molla said, “Mastercard is committed to displacing cash by deploying localised solutions that enable consumers to enjoy safe and convenient payments." This commitment to displacing cash is a vision we are proud to share with Tigo in Tanzania. With so many merchants now offering the Mastercard QR payment option, consumers can use this digital solution. Mastercard QR is a fast and convenient digital payment solution that is now accepted at various stores and other locations across the country and accessed by all Tigo Pesa customers. Customers can enjoy using Tigo Pesa Mastercard QR across popular merchant locations including Puma Fuel Stations, KFC and Pizza Hut outlets, Samaki Samaki Restaurant, Century Cinemax, Shoppers supermarkets, JD Pharmacies, GSM Mall outlets and many more across Tanzania.