MANY unimodal areas— with single rainfall season annually—are expected to receive normal to above normal rains between next month and April next year. Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA) Director General Dr Agnes Kijazi told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that prospects of bumper harvests were high in areas famed for food and cash crop production in the country. The unimodal areas include western, central, southwestern highlands, southern, southern coast and southern parts of Morogoro region. According to the country’s chief meteorologist, above normal to normal rainsare expected in most parts of Iringa, Ruvuma, Mbeya, Songwe, Tabora, Singida, Dodoma, Southern Morogoro, Lindi and Mtwara regions. “Enhanced rain activities are likely in November 2019 and January 2020 while the season is likely to have reduced rainfall activities in December 2019 and February 2020,” she explained. She added: “The rains are expected to start in the fourth week of October 2019 in Kigoma region and spread over to the remaining areas during the first week of February 2020.” Dr Kijazi explained further that rains over most areas of southwestern highlands and southern cost are expected to cease by the first week of May 2020 while overall central and western rains are expected to end by the fourth week of April, 2020. Expected impacts of the rains include short periods of heavy rains which may result into water accumulation and floods, outbreak of water borne diseases, especially in areas with poor sewerage systems in urban areas. “Soil moisture is expected to be sufficient for crop production over many areas and farmers are advised to prepare their farms in advance,” Dr Kijazi urged. She urged local government authorities to clean drainage systems to lessen impacts of flooding which could be brought about by heavy rains and accumulation of heavy rains and surface runoff of water. Dr Kijazi also urged the health sector to check against water borne diseases, which could be triggered by water pollution as a result of heavy rains. “Over the areas where above normal to normal rains are expected, information from disaster committees should be relayed to communities residing in low lying areas,” Dr Kijazi urged. She called on disaster management authorities to prepare contingency measures and resources to mitigate the negative impacts that might occur.