IN the recent past one would not think of cooking, catering, and hospitality as careers that needed acquiring skills. The perception was that in developing countries this is a job that can be done by anybody. No skills needed. Cleaning work in houses and Hotels, gardening, and bedding are other jobs that people think that anybody can do without necessarily getting training. But in today’s world of science and technology, any job requires proper training. Arguably it is to this global change that has pushed Zanzibar government to seek training from China, for its people working as chefs, hospitality, and catering services providers in public and private offices, and hotels. President Ali Mohamed Shein is now encouraging civil servants and other employees to go for training frequently for improved performance, efficiency and delivery of better services in public offices and in booming tourism industry. In support for the country’s efforts to have skilled labour in all fields and areas of development, China has expanded its long time training to food preparation, hospitality, and catering, to meet the required standards. On October 08, this year, one month training on cooking skills, a rare course was closed here, by the Permanent Secretary (PS)- Ministry of State, ‘State House and Revolutionary Council’ Mr Salum Maulid Salum with thanks to the facilitators from China acknowledging that the new course further strengthens China/Zanzibar ties. “We thank our true friends of China for the continuing memorable development support in various areas. We value it as we look forward for stronger relation,” Mr Salum said before the 45 graduates at the ‘Sheikh Idris Abdulwakil multipurpose Hall.’ He thanked ‘China National Research Institute of Food Fermentation Industries (CNRIFFI)’ for organizing the training for the chefs and other catering staff to provide better services in Culinary and catering in public and private, during national events. Mr Salum said that all the participants who attended the course performed to the satisfaction of the facilitators. The training involved food preparation, kitchen arrangement, hospitality and catering. The PS also showered praise on the Consular General of China in Zanzibar Mr Xie Xiaowu and his wife for being behind the training which he describes as further cements the relations. It is now over 55 years of good cooperation between the united republic of Tanzania (include Zanzibar) and China. The training which started on September 8, this year was launched by the State Minister- ‘State House and revolutionary council’ Mr Issa Haji Ussi ‘Gavu’ who also thanked China to the support. “I would like to convey my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation to the brotherly people of China for providing the training courses in various fields to the people of Zanzibar,” Gavu said. The graduates also issued statement of the thanks to the Chinese trainers, and the government of the China for expanding trainings to the rare field of preparation of food in the kitchen, catering, neatness in the kitchen, and hospitality. The training was conducted by experienced chefs and services providers from China, at the ‘Zanzibar Institute of Tourism and Development of the State University of Zanzibar (SUZA), and at the Hotel Verde. The head of economy and trade department at the Consulate General office of China here Ms Shen Qi said, “The new training is among China’s ongoing support to the developing countries like Zanzibar. We are fully committed to see that our friends achieve their development goals.” Professor Cui Chao who was among the trainers said “With improving provision of better services, following training in catering and hospitality, it is high time the government invest more in advertising its tourism attraction sites to increase the number of tourists.” He said that Zanzibar is gifted to have many attraction sites including beaches and historical areas that can be used to attract more tourists from abroad including China to visit the archipelago. Mr Abdalla Ali Juma, 50, a chef at Hotel Verde said he remain enthusiastic to have the training, “I never expected to have training at this stage and age. I will use the new skills learned to improve my career of cookery including Chinese foods.” Ms Hidaya Omar Rajab, 55, from the State House here, “We are looking forward for improved services from the graduates who also are required to organize in-house or at duty training to their colleagues.” Mr Suleiman Juma Ali, 57, from Chakechake Pemba President’s rest house, said “The food and hospitality training was a milestone in my life. No age limit, I am almost retiring from job but, I was still considered for the training. Thank you!” He observes that hospitality; culinary and catering professions in public offices are set to improve following the training conducted by the CNRIFFI to help workers perform well as Mr Issa Hajji Ussi ‘Gavu’- State Minister (State House) said “It is a timely and important course.” Mr Gavu thanked China Consular General in Zanzibar Mr Xie Xiaowu and the China National Research Institute of Food Fermentation Industries for accepting President Shein’s request for the training. Mr Gavu said; “We hope after the series of training, workers, leaders, and visitors in different public offices will be best served. Let us expect to see the difference because the facilitators are professionals.” Food cookery, hospitality, and catering professional trainings started here in 2017, and at the opening of this year’s training the Deputy Minister for Education and Vocational Training Mr Simai Mohamed Said informed the gathering, “China remains a true friend of our country, because the people of China have been doing a lot to support our development.” Mr Xiaowu said at the opening that while his country celebrates 55 years of good cooperation with Zanzibar and Tanzania in its entirety, “We maintain the relation and promise to continue supporting development programmes.” Mr Dong Weihong, Secretary of Communist Party of China of the CNRIFFI said they are happy to run the course here as one of the development support from his country and praised Zanzibar for having suitable climate, fascinating beaches and advantage for tourism development. The bilateral relations between the peoples republic of China and Zanzibar which is part of the united republic of Tanzania has existed beyond half century with many benefits recorded from the cooperation. Thanks to the founding fathers: late Mao Zedong of China, and Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere along with Abeid Amani Karume for establishing the relations. Support to improve economy, infrastructures like roads, education, water and health services delivery are some of the benefits from the relation with China, the first country, globally, to recognize Zanzibar’s 1964 revolution which ended the colonial backed regime of sultan. The people of Zanzibar are also happy to see improving services delivery in public offices, partly linked to capacity building and trainings provided by experts from China to the civil servants in the country. Training in Hospitality, Culinary and catering is the latest training being offered by experts from CNRIFFI to employees working as chefs and caterers in both public and private offices and tourists’ hotels.