MEMBERS of Parliament have raised suspicions over the whereabouts of the contract for procurement of a hightech system for production of e-passports, almost two years since President John Magufuli launched the issuance of the new travel documents. The Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PAC) queried the secrecy behind the contract for procuring the technology, asking the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs to present it before the committee on October 29 before appearing for intensive grilling a day later. According to the committee deputy chairperson, Aesh Hilaly, the Permanent Secretary and his team will have to respond to 16 key issues regarding the contract. However, he fell short of divulging into details when addressing journalists here. It was revealed during interrogation that failure to have the contract, which is a public document as well as the cost for procurement of the new technology, was a major cause of receiving audit reports with disclaimer of opinion. “We cannot continue with interrogation on the new system when we don’t have the contract with us on the table,’’ said Iramba East lawmaker, Allan Kiula (CCM). He added that since, the immigration department has been receiving disclaimer of opinion from the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) for two consecutive years. Another MP, Anatropia Theonest (Special Seats- CHADEMA) said neither the ministry nor the immigration department had explanation on the said contract. According to the committee deputy chairperson, his directive to obtain procurement documents was based on the fact that PAC was charged with ensuring that the country’s funds were well utilised. Nyamagana MP, Stanslaus Mabula (CCM) expressed his dismay over response from Deputy PS in the ministry, Ramadhan Kailima that his ministry was only duty bound to receiving the new system, adding that the ministry did not offer tender to purchase it. He said since it was equally a source of revenue, it was important for Tanzanians to know how much cost it was purchased with. On January 31, 2018 President Magufuli launched Tanzania’s new E-passport and became the first citizen to receive the new document. The travel document, among other things, was geared upon enhancing national security, control illegal migrants and play a key role in revenue collection. Dr Magufuli said the new development was part of efforts to improve productivity and simplify service delivery. The issuance of e-passports is part of a wider strategy by the region to enhance integration with the passports in other EAC countries. Over 50 African countries have issued epassports to their citizens including Ghana, Gabon, Egypt, Morocco and Mauritius. The 35 th EAC Council of Ministers which convened on April 4, 2017 , directed partner states to begin issuing EA e-passport, where the EAC Heads of State equally approved the decision.