YOUTH in the country have been challenged to engage on self-employment activities that will open up more opportunities for their future life as well as contribute to economic growth. This was said by the Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office responsible for Youth and Labour, Anthony Mavunde in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday while speaking to 100 youths selected to join the Vijana 2jiajiri self-employment programme coordinated by KCB Bank. “The problem youth think office work is the best option for them. They think of wearing white-sleeved shirts and black trouser for office work. I ask them to change their mind set; they should engage in self-employment to enable them earn their daily living,” he said. According to him, the government expects that by 2025, about 40 per cent of the country’s active labour force the youth would be employed in the industrial sector. Mavunde said the government is currently creating an enabling environment to support youth self-employment. The growth of the industrial sector is set to create more jobs for the huge army of unemployed Tanzanian youths. Because of the looming labour crisis worldwide, the minister counselled the youths against clamouring for office employment as that concept has outlived its efficacy. The minister said a study conducted in 2014 revealed that Tanzania has 24.3 million people who can perform various income-generating activities in the labour market. “For young people who waste their valuable time by staying home thinking that one day they would be employed by a bank or somewhere else, such people are day dreamers. Job opportunities would not follow them where they are,” Mavunde warned. Recognising the key role played by vocational training institutes, the government has set a huge chunk of funds towards building more colleges under the Vocational Education Training Authority (VETA), the minister said. The VETA colleges are aimed at equipping youth with the basic skills towards self-employment, he explained. The acting principal of VETA Dar es Salaam, Violet Fumbo, said the Vijana 2jiajiri programme supported by KCB Bank is an instrument of ‘liberation’ which will help youths acquire the much-needed skills for self-employment. She said any young man and woman who will acquire skills in vocational training must discard the concept of office employment and instead think about entrepreneurship as the emerging trend to reduce the labour crisis. “We’re ready to cooperate with KCB Bank to ensure that the dreams of our youths for self-employment are realised,” she said. KCB Managing Director Cosmas Kimario said his bank has set aside 80m/-to help 123 youths undergo vocational training.