THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court yesterday set free former Secretary General with Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Michael Wambura after entering into plea-bargaining agreement with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to refund the government over 100m/- he obtained by false pretenses. Acting under amnesty granted by President John Magufuli to persons charged with economic offences, Wambura had written a letter to the DPP, indicating his willingness to admit to the charges he was facing. Having accepted the letter in question, the parties entered into plea-bargaining agreement with the DPP dropping the economic case involving 17 counts of forgery, obtaining money by false pretenses and money laundering in terms of section 91 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act and filed one count of obtaining money by false pretenses alone. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon and State Attorney Lucy Uweso presented and read over the new charge before Senior Resident Magistrate Kelvin Mhina. The accused pleaded guilty to the charge. Thereafter, the Magistrate convicted Wambura on his own plea of guilty. The prosecution requested the court to punish the convict as per law in order to serve as a lesson to others who will be tempted to commit similar offences. On his part, Wambura requested the court to give him chance of participating in economic and social activities as it is the first time to be convicted in criminal offences. Delivering the sentence, the magistrate directed Wambura to pay to the government a total sum of 100,998,124/- in five installments starting yesterday as per plea-bargaining agreement. He directed the convict to pay 20m/- as the first installment and the remaining sum shall be paid in four equal installments of 20,249,531/- by September 30, 2020. In addition to that the magistrate gave Wambura conditional discharge in that he should not commit a similar offence for a period of one year. Reading the new charge, the prosecution told the Court that on diverse dates between July 6, 2014 and October 30, 2015 at TFF in the city, Wambura obtained the said sum by falsely pretending that it was part payment of outstanding loan of 30,000 US dollars applied for JEKC System Limited, while it was untrue.