TANZANIA Mainland Premier League defending champions, Simba have dominated the player and coach of the month awards for September, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) unveiled in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Simba Head Coach, Patrick Aussems and the newly signed winger Miraji Athumani have been named by the TFF Awards committee the best coach and player of September and eligible to receive awards for their feat. Miraji Athumani alias ‘Sheva’ has been in a red-hot form for the defending champions, having scored three goals in just four appearances this season, but most notable are two goals in three premier league matches held in September. Also he made two assists in the same month which enabled him to emerge the winner of the September award beating his team mate Meddie Kagere who is currently the team’s leading scorer. Kagere who won the August player of the month, has been a figurehead to Simba’s perfect start of the 2019/20 season campaign, scoring four goals and providing one assist to Athumani. The winner of the player of the month award receives a trophy and 1m/-cash prize from the league main sponsor Vodacom Tanzania and as well a decoder for the league co-sponsor Azam TV . In September, Simba played three Premier League matches and won all of them; 2-1 against Mtibwa and went on to beat Kagera Sugar 3-0 away in Bukoba before silencing Biashara United with 2-0 victory in Mara. Apart from Kagere another player who was shortlisted by the committee for the September player of the month, was Ismail Kada who features for Tanzania Prisons. The player helped his team beat Ruvu Shooting 2-1, Mtibwa Sugar ( 3-1) before posting a 2-2 draw with Lipuli 2-2. In the coach of the month award, the committee picked Aussems, Mohammed Rishard (Tanzania Prisons) and JKT Tanzania’s Abdallah Mohammed to vie for the award and Simba Belgian tactician won the award after leading his side to three wins in September from three-game outings. Kagere scooped player of the month for August after he out-shined his competitors— Lukas Kikoti of Namungo FC and Seif Karie of Lipuli FC, who were also shortlisted by the Award Committee.