FIVE more suspects of economic and money laundering charges were released from remand prison over their confession and commitment to compensate the government with 15bn/-. The new beneficiaries of President John Magufuli’s amnesty were Bank M Chief Executive Officer Sanjeev Kumar Purushothaman, alias P. Sanjeev Kumar, advocates Ringo Tenga and Frank Mwalongo as well as Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) former Managing Director Peter Noni. The list also includes Six Telecoms Company Limited Managing Director Hafidh Shamte, alias Rashid Shamte and the company’s Chief Finance Officer Noel Chacha. With the exception of Kumar, the four accused were charged in one case jointly with Six Telecoms on account of their positions in the company. Besides Shamte and Chacha, Tenga and Noni are also directors of the service provider of integrated telecommunications services establishment. Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court ordered Tenga and accomplices to pay to the government 3,282,741.12 US dollars (over 8bn/-) for fraudulently under charging international incoming telecommunication traffic while Kumar has to pay 6,039,103,579/-, the loss he had occasioned to the government. The accused, acting on the presidential amnesty, had written letters to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) expressing their wishes to enter into plea-bargaining agreement and confess the charges. The DPP, having granted their pleas, files a certificate and consent to allow the court to hear the economic case. Additionally, he dropped several counts, including those relating to money laundering under the plea-bargaining arrangement and had the charges read afresh, with all accused pleading guilty. After presenting the case facts to which the accused admitted, the court convicted all of them on their own plea of guilty. During mitigation in Tenga’s trial, the prosecution and defence requested the court to impose sentence as per the plea-bargaining agreement. The defence, led by Alex Mgongolwa, asked the court to also consider the accused as being the first offenders and had been in remand for over two years. Before meting out the sentence, the prosecution team comprising the Principal State Attorney Faraja Nchimbi and State Attorneys Jacqueline Nyantory and Constantine Kakula, informed the court that the plea-bargaining agreement the accused had reached into with the DPP be considered. Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba who presided over Tenga’s trial, apart from issuing the compensation order also confiscated into government property a posh house at Mikocheni suburb upon convicting them on own plea to the four charges. The magistrate directed all the convicts to deposit into the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) 150,000 US dollars as the first installment of the money, with the remaining amount paid within six months from Monday. Advocate Mwalongo was ordered to refund the government 30m/-. In addition to compensation, the magistrate also sentenced all other convicts to either pay a total fine of 155m/- or go to jail for four years in default of paying the fine for the offences committed between January 2014 and January 2016, within the city of Dar es Salaam. Regarding Kumar’s case, Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi convicted the bank’s CEO of two counts of occasioning 6bn/- loss to the government and fraudulent scheme, sentencing him to pay a total 2m/- fine. The lenient sentence was in the spirit of the presi dential pardon. The magistrate further ordered the convict to comply with the terms and conditions of the pleabargaining agreement, including immediate deposit of 300,000 US dollars and the remaining 5,349,103,579/- be paid within 24 months effective yesterday. The amount, according to the agreement, is to be paid in installment of 222,879,315/- on or before the eighth of every month. The magistrate further ordered the DPP to withhold Kumar’s passport, considering that he was Kenyan and his movement will be monitored by the prosecution. Before the sentence, the convict’s Advocates Hudson Ndusyepo and Rason Mbwambo requested the court to provide lenient sentence to their client, submitting that he is a man of good character, having received the central bank’s award as the best CEO in Tanzania. The lawyers told the court that the 64-year old Kumar is already senior and suffers from severe diabetic and high blood pressure. They assured the court that the convict will cooperate with the prosecution in executing the agreement and had paid the first installment of 300,000 US dollars on October 5, 2019.