AFTER hoarding maize stocks for months, traders and middle men in Rukwa region have started selling a bag of 100 kilogrammes at between 80,000/- and 90,000/-. Equally, the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) – Sumbawanga Zone has only purchased 676 tonnes of maize since the maize purchasing season officially started in July 22, this year, because most farmers have sold the produce to traders and middlemen at throw away prices. The food agency was expecting to purchase 15,000 tonnes of maize this season, but it failed to meet the target due to sudden increase of maize prices in the region. A survey conducted by the Sunday News here in Sumbawanga Town and Nkasi District showed that most farmers in rural areas have already sold their maize stocks to traders and middlemen at throw away prices. During the survey, it was discovered that traders and middlemen in the region bought a bag of maize weighing 100 kilograms at between 12,000/- and 18,000/-, which means a bucket of 20 liters was sold at 3,000/- Equally, some farmers sold their produces, mostly maize, to traders while it was still in the farms, and as a result most of them are currently trekking to Sumbawanga Town to purchase maize at between 14,000/- and 15,000/- for a 20 liter bucket. A maize trader, Bukuku Mwanafyale, who is the owner of Mwanafyale Store here in the municipality, told this paper at his store that the price of maize has increased because traders from neighbouring countries were purchasing the produce in large quantities and at high prices. “Currently, most farmers have no maize stock because they sold the produce to us at throw away prices..... We see them coming to us to buy the same for food but at higher prices,” said Mwanafyale. Another trader who introduced himself as Baba Love, admitted that the price of maize has increased suddenly, and that business people have profited a lot. “The day before yesterday I was cruising from Mpanda Town (Katavi) to Sumbawanga (Rukwa), and I witnessed fleet of trucks from neighbouring countries carrying bags of maize .... The truth is, most farmers in rural areas have sold all their maize to traders ...now they have nothing,” added John Gervas, another trader. Ms Semeni Ally on her part expressed her joy over the sudden hike in maize prices, saying she will earn super profit after selling her 60 bags of maize at a retail price. The acting NFRA –Sumbawanga Zone Manager, Mr Range Marwa said that purchasing season started on July 22 this year, with a stock of 11,697 tonnes of maize accumulated in their storage facilities. Expounding further, Mr Marwa explained that NFRA – Sumbawanga Zone has been allocated to purchase 18,000 tonnes of maize, of which Rukwa has been allocated to buy 13,000 tonnes and Katavi will purchase 5,000 tonnes. "During this maize purchasing season, the food agency started buying a kilo of maize at 450/-, then at 500/-, and now the price has reached 650/-. But to date we have purchased only 676 tonnes due to high prices of the commodity at the markets,” he explained.