ELDERS were yesterday assured sustained life improvements, especially intensified protection against violence. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said that service provision to elders was one of the government priorities, assuring that the government will continue taking necessary moves to improve the wellbeing of senior citizens. The premier made the remark as Tanzania joined the rest of the world to mark the International Day of Older Persons, which was nationally celebrated at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara region. He said the government will continually improve infrastructure, create friendly environments for elders in using transportation facilities and set up systems and criteria to enable them get pension payment. Mr Majaliwa said that among steps the government has taken to improve the wellbeing and development of elders are establishment of Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) to support poverty stricken communities. “As of September this year, 680,056 elders from 1,118,747 households under TASAF programme have benefited both in Mainland and Zanzibar. This programme has improved the wellbeing of elders and care for their grandchildren who have lost parents due to various reasons, including HIV/AIDS,” he said. Mr Majaliwa further said that the government will continue implementing the National Health Policy of 2007, which recognises elders as special group that needs to be given priority in provision of health services. The policy emphasises elders aged 60 and above and those who cannot afford medical services to access free services. The premier directed all district councils in the country to ensure elders’ identification is continuous to enable them benefit from free medical services. Health Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said the International Day of Older Person is marked to raise public awareness on issues related to elders, including finding solutions to challenges facing the group. She challenged members of the public to respect the rights of elders who account for 5.6 per cent—2,507,568— of the entire population. Ms Mwalimu said a report from the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Authorities indicates that as of December last year, 1,837,162 elders had been identified, with 684,383 of them—37 per cent—already provided with identity cards for free health service access. Meanwhile, HelpAge International and its network organisations in the country have commended the government for improvement of elders’ lives, including formation of over 9,000 elders’ structures. HelpAge International Country Director Smart Daniel said the government has recorded remarkable milestones on issues related to elders, citing the National Strategy to Eradicate Elderly Killings. “Early this year we witnessed the launch of the National Strategy to Eradicate Elderly Killings and Zanzibar’s President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein recently agreed to increase social pension, which currently stands at 20,000/-,” he said. Mr Daniel also applauded efforts by the President’s Office, Regional Administration, which facilitated the formation of over 9,000 elders’ structures throughout the country. He said the health ministries in Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar have facilitated provision of improved agefriendly health and care services to older people. Mr Daniel also said Zanzibar government through the Ministry of Labour Empowerment, Social Welfare, Youth, Women, Elders and Children has embarked on the process towards having the Older People Affairs and Social Pension Act. According the 2012 national census, older people in Tanzania account for 5.6 per cent of the population while the United Nations projects the number of persons aged 60 or above globally will grow by 46 per cent. By 2030, the 1.4 billion elderly people globally will outnumber youth—a big rise from 2017 when the figure stood at 962 million. UN Fund for Population Activities estimate that one in every six people will be aged over 65 by 2050. These drastic changes in the global populations call for nations to set policies, strategies and systems to carter for the elders’ growing demands.