THE UN-International Labour Organisation (ILO) marks its 100 centenary this year since its establishment in 1919. The organization has been touting with more efforts to ensure, among other things, unemployment rates as well as child labour issues are reduced to the maximum in the world. ILO’s Director for East Africa region representing Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi Mr Wellington Chibebe based in Dar es Salaam office explores the subjects when interviewed by a Correspondent Emmanuel Onyango excerpts. Question: The rate of unemployment in East Africa Community region appears to be on the rise year after year, how does the situation look like today? Answer: Generally speaking as regards the situation in the East Africa sub-region, statistics by ILO’s World Employment and Social Outlook (WESO) report show that more than 80 percent of the youths in East Africa region are without jobs. East African governments still grapple with the means of how to absorb their unemployed youths. Kenya leads with the largest number of people who are unemployed. Records show that one in every 5 Kenyans is unemployed as compared to Tanzania where the ratio stands at 1 into 20. The greatest employer in both countries is the informal sector which employs more than 86 percent of the workforce and controlling close to 80 percent of the economy. The sector, however, faces numerous challenges including inadequate funding, tough business environment, and inadequate training among those within it. In Tanzania, according to the Population and Housing Census 2012, young people aged 15- 35 years make up more than one third of the total population in Tanzania. The Tanzania’s Integrated Labour Force Survey (ILFS), 2014 indicates that there is an unemployment crisis in the country. Unemployment is a significant challenge faced by youth in Rwanda. According to the Rwanda Labour Force Survey Report of December 2018, approximately 18.7 percent of Rwandan youth are unemployed and 29.5 percent live in households below the poverty line. According to the Uganda National Household Survey (UNHS), 2017/18 the unemployment rate stand at 9.2 percent. Q: How is the situation of child labour in East Africa sub region? What steps are you undertaking in collaboration with other stakeholders in order to reduce the problem? A: We have taken a note with keen interest that all countries in the East Africa sub-region are greatly committed to eliminate all forms of vulnerability and threats to the wellbeing of children. This is important bearing in mind the fact that all East African nations have ratified and domesticated International Conventions into their respective National legislations by enacting laws and policies. Child labour in Tanzania, for example, is driven by factors that include demography, poverty and violence. The country’s analytical report of the national Child Labour Survey estimates that, 4.2 million children aged 5–17 years are engaged in child labour which is equivalent to 28.8 per cent of the entire children’s population. The report reveals that in terms of number of the child labourers in different sectors, agriculture and mining are by far the most notorious sectors among others. Kenya made a moderate advancement in efforts to eliminate the worst forms of child labor. In recent years, the government mandated free secondary education for all Kenyans and established additional Child Protection Centers to provide housing, counseling, and reintegration services to rescued child laborers. The government also developed a National Employment Policy that mandates reporting on the number of children withdrawn from child labor and the progress of child labor-free zones. In Uganda, it is estimated that 2 million out of 8 million children aged 5 -17 years are engaged in child labour. This is in accordance to Uganda National Housing Survey (UNHS 2017/18). Q: As the ILO marks 100 years now, how is the magnitude of the child labour problem globally? A: While celebrating the ILO’s Centenary, this is particularly significant because the ILO has been working for the abolition of child labour and workers’ rights at a global level since its earliest days. Two of the first six Conventions the ILO adopted in its first year, 1919, addressed child labour issues. Our reflection this year was focused under the theme titled, “Children shouldn’t work in fields, but on dreams!” Its abolition is now the subject of one of the ILO’s fundamental principles, along with ending forced labour and work-related discrimination and promoting freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 100 years the ILO has made substantial progress, not least because of intense advocacy and national mobilisation backed by legislative and practical action. Between 2000 and 2016 alone, there was a 38 per cent decrease in child labour globally. The ILO’s Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labour, 1999 (No. 182) has achieved almost universal ratification by the ILO’s 187 member States, and the ratification rate of the Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) is not far behind. According to ILO Global Report on Child Labour (2018), Worldwide 218 million children between 5 and 17 years are in employment. Among them, 152 million are victims of child labour almost half of them, 73 million, work in hazardous situation. In terms of prevalence, 1 in 5 children in Africa (19.6 percent) are in child labour, whilst prevalence in other regions is between 3 percent and 7 percent, 2.9 percent in the Arab States (1 in 35 children); 4.1 percent in Europe and Central Asia (1 in 25); 5.3 percent in the Americas (1 in 19) and 7.4 percent in Asia and the Pacific region (1 in 14). Q: With the ILO Centenary this year, can you tell us what are some of the successes and challenges you have experienced so far in various sub-sectors globally and within East Africa sub region? A: The following are few examples of some ILO achievements throughout history and how ILO’s work with people. The ILO has played an important role at key historical junctures from the Great Depression in the 1930s, decolonisation, the creation of the independent trade union, the victory over apartheid in South Africa to the quest for decent work for all. ILO sets international labour standards, promotes rights at work and encourages decent employment opportunities, the enhancement of social protection schemes and the strengthening of dialogue on work-related issues whereby 68 per cent of older persons around the globe receive a pension. To date, the ILO has adopted 190 Conventions and 206 Recommendations. With ILO's assistance and services, some 85 per cent of ILO member States have created tripartite institutions to address labour-related matters. The ILO's work affects all our lives including, for example, the hours we work and rest, our safety and health at work, jobs and wages, as well as our pensions and overall working conditions, among others. This year’s Centenary is being marked at a time of transformative change in the world of work, driven by technological innovations, demographic shifts, environmental and climate change, and globalisation, as well as at a time of persistent inequalities, which have profound impacts on the nature and future of work. Q: How far has the labour standards been ratified and implemented by East Africa member states? Any challenges experienced in this area and how do you overcome them? A: Since 1919, the International Labour Organisation has maintained and developed a system of international labour standards aimed at promoting opportunities for women and men to obtain decent and productive work. These focuses conditions of freedom, equity, security and dignity. To date the ILO has adopted 190 Conventions and 206 recommendations. This includes the new Convention and accompanying recommendation to combat violence and harassment in the world of work which were adopted at the Centenary International Labour Conference (ILC) in June this year in Geneva. As regards ratification of the conventions, Tanzania has to date ratified 37 Conventions including the 8 fundamental Conventions as covered in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998. Kenya has ratified 50 conventions and 7 fundamental conventions, Uganda has ratified 31 Conventions and 8 fundamental Conventions, Rwanda has ratified 34 Conventions and 8 fundamental conventions, and Burundi has ratified 31 Conventions and 8 fundamental ones. In today's globalised economy, international labour standards are an essential component in the international framework for ensuring that the growth of the global economy provides benefits to all. The ILO invites governments, trade unions and employers’ organisations in all 187 member States of the Organisation to take action to ensure that their State ratifies at least one international labour Convention or Protocol in the course of 2019. This goes for East Africa as well. We encourage the ratifications as they are sovereign acts of a member State of the ILO expressing the State’s intention to give effect to the standards specified in an adopted Convention. Ratified standards are to be applied in law and in practice.