PLANS are set to enable local wine producers in the country, especially in Dodoma, to start exporting the drink to the west African market, thanks to Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta’s trip to Tanzania in July this year. Dodoma Regional Commissioner (RC), Dr B inilith Mahenge said two companies from Ghana have already signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with local producers and at any time, wine exportation will begin. According to Dr Mahenge, when President Kenyatta visited Tanzania in July this year he expressed his satisfaction with the local wine after tasting it. “When President Uhuru Kenyatta visited his counterpart President John Magufuli in Chato, Geita Region in July he told his host how much he loved the local wine, a message that went viral to the extent of attracting Ghanaian wine traders who flew to the country to make followups,” Dr Mahenge said. The regional commissioner said after some traders from Ghana tested it, they forged business relationships, including making arrangements to purchase it. The RC, who was speaking when he officiated the opening of the Tanzania Society of Animal Production (TSAP) annual conference, said that apart from producing high quality of wine, Dodoma Region was the only place in the world which harvests grapes twice a year and therefore it was capable of feeding even more markets, domestic and external. On availability of the market in the western African nation, Dr Mahenge explained that Ghana has so far been importing 50 percent of its wine requirements from European countries, 30 percent from South Africa and 20 percent from its local market, yet the one produced in Dodoma was surpassing them all in good tester and quality. Statistics show that in the 2015 season, there were about 4,810 acres under grape production in Dodoma Region with total annual production being about 10,800 tons, equal to an average yield of 2.25 tons per acre. President Magufuli said that when his Kenyan Counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta paid an official visit to the country in July, he loved the local wine so much that the message which went viral on social media triggered the attention of wine traders in west Africa. “He has loved the Tanzanian wine very much; I expect Kenyan delegates accompanying him will soon start pressing orders. especially for the Dodoma wine. He has indeed seen the real taste of wine,” President Magufuli was quoted as saying when the Kenyan leader visited him in his home village of Chato.