ABOUT 130 young females in Dar es Salaam’s Kigamboni District, who gave birth before turning 20, are benefiting from the “Bado Naweza’ project worth 45m/-, whose objectives include capacity building on economic issues. The nine-month project that kicked off in July this year, is run by the Tanzania Association of Women Certified Accountants (TAWCA) under a 45m/- sponsorship of the Foundation for Civil Society, said Ms Victoria Soka, one of the association’s members in Dar es Salaam recently, during a capacity building seminar. According to her, the project emerged after TAWCA ran a simple research and discovered that most early pregnancy victims despaired, feeling that they were absolute failures throughout their lifetime. “We discovered that all girls were dependent on their parents/relatives, with many being totally dumped by their partners. The association teaches them how to accumulate capital, introduce and run various businesses for personal and the nation’s development. We prioritise money saving issues, one of the most important approaches, which can help them move from small to large scale investments,” she said. After completing capacity building sessions, she said, the beneficiaries will form groups with at least five members each, for capital accumulation. Groups will be composed of those who have already introduced some small business, hence to make capital accumulation possible. Thereafter, TAWCA, in collaboration with the district development officers, will link the groups with a four percent free-interest loan, which has been offered by the municipalities to youth, on annual basis. Basing on the acquired knowledge from the seminars, capital accumulation will be simultaneously practiced with developing business ideas, to make the business most productive, said Ms Soka. It was further noted that the association will also be linking the young females with relevant authorities responsible for market search, including the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade). One of the early pregnancy victims, Ms Asma Khamis, praised the Association’s support, saying that training would encourage among other things, selfemployment spirit among the youth. However, she called on regular public awareness campaigns on the effects of early pregnancies, which shattered most young girls’ life dreams. “It is true we, early pregnancy victims are completely dependent on our families. We have no base for initiating development activities due to our limited level of education as most of us are standard seven leavers. This kind of empowerment will to a great extent help us and our children. Personally, I am a single parent; my child and I were abandoned by his father abandoned us since pregnancy,” she revealed.