THE country has been hit by a series of floods, with several lives lost, especially in Tanga region. The heavy rains, unfortunately, did not wreak havoc in Tanzania only, with most parts of the East African bloc reporting several casualties after heavy rains pounded their areas. Recently, the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA) issued an alert on heavy rains that are expected to pound most parts of the country, Dar es Salaam included. With such warning, it was my hope that Tanzanians will witness municipal councils taking measures to prepare their cities from flooding disasters, which has been the case for so many years. Each rainy season, the Jangwani area of Dar es Salaam becomes a serious temporary lake, paralyzing transport operations, and each rainy season the reaction is the same, although this time around the Dar es Salaam Regional commissioner, Paul Makonda has promised to look for a permanent solution. Late last week Dar es Salaam received some serious amounts of rain, and judging by the floods that hit most parts of the city, it is obvious that when the rainfalls predicted by the TMA come falling, there will be a grim picture which will be painted. Dar es Salaam city is topographically made up of lowlands that lie below the sea level; this means that this topographic feature makes it very vulnerable to floods and coastal erosion. The high vulnerability is largely attributed to poor planning, poverty, and poor infrastructure which are exacerbated by poor infiltration and un-functioning storm water drainage systems. In the absence of effective adaptation measures, flood risks are exacerbated. Reports suggest this is particularly the case in developing countries; however, the devastation brought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 suggests that even the most developed nations, Tanzania included, must take further steps to adequately protect against natural disasters. Experts have for years recommended that disaster risk reduction must be successfully incorporated into broader sustainable development goals to foster more resilient communities. Currently, Tanzania’s disaster management activities are centrally coordinated by the Disaster Management Department (DMD) under the Prime Minister’s office. A study by the U.N. Development Programme three years ago, however, revealed widespread weaknesses in disaster prevention and management strategies. Those included a failure to earmark land where flood waters could be diverted, or introduce technological solutions to avert flooding, such as building flood levees.