ONLY 14 percent of married women in Zanzibar are using modern methods of contraceptives, as experts warn the low rate undermine efforts to reduce maternal and child mortality rate. And nearly a third of women who wish to exercise their right to decide on the timing and spacing of their births are not able to do so, says NFPA. UNFPA Reproductive and Maternal Health Specialist in Zanzibar, Batula Abdi said progress towards improving access to and uptake of voluntary family planning information and services in Zanzibar has been low despite what she described as tremendous commitment by the government. "Voluntary family planning improves the health and wellbeing of women and their children by reducing maternal mortality and child mortality," said Ms Batuli. She said the situation is worse in Pemba South, which has recorded a contraceptive prevalence rate of seven percent. "At the same time, the unmet need for family planning, that is women who would wish to space or limit births but are not currently using contraceptives, is at 28 percent in Zanzibar," she added. In a speech at the opening of National Dialogue on Family Planning, President Ali Mohamed Shein reiterated the government's commitment on accelerating voluntary family planning, which is evidenced in its development strategy, Vision 2020. He said the government has created an enabling environment to ensure that all Zanzibaris have access to quality voluntary family planning information and services as shown in the 2020 vision and the recently launched Wajibika Hakikisha Uzazi Salama campaign. In the speech read on his behalf by second vice President, Ambassador Ali Seif Idd, President Shein urged the public to differentiate between family planning and reproductive rights. He said by promoting the use of contraceptives, the timing and spacing of their births, the government does not intend to rob them of their fundamental rights of reproduction. UNFPA Country Representative, Jacqueline Mahon, speaking at the event, underscored the importance of family planning in development plans at family and national levels. "Based on global evidence, we know that access to family planning information and contraceptives saves lives– preventable maternal mortality is reduced by 30 per cent, and child mortality is reduced by 10 per cent," said Ms Mahon. Additionally, studies show that investing in family planning is a development ''best buy", she added. "Meeting the contraceptive needs of all women in developing countries more than pays for itself; for every single dollar spent on contraceptives, four dollars are saved. Therefore let's invest in family planning – It is possible!" This year marks the 25th anniversary of the groundbreaking International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD), which took place in Cairo in 1994. At that conference, 179 governments adopted a Programme of Action, recognizing that reproductive health, women's empowerment and gender equality are the pathway to sustainable development.