THE National Institute of Transport (NIT) has commended the support from AVIC International which facilitated its capacity building workshop for its workers who visited China recently. NIT’S School of Aviation Technology Principal Denis W. Mwageni said that the “The arranged seminar and visit to China was very significant to the implementation of our upcoming projects at this time when our institute is undergoing transformation through University of Transport with the World Bank project.” The training tour in China came at a time when the institute is currently focusing on the construction of training buildings and facilities such as the Hi Tech Workshop Building for Aircraft Maintenance Engineering, Mock Up Building and swimming pool for cabin crew training, student hostels and staff houses. Other components include the purchase of training equipment such as training aircraft, cabin mock up, aircraft maintenance workshop equipment, Computer Based Training Programmes and Virtual Maintenance Trainers. “Therefore, the training in China at Beijing, Nanjing, Jinan and Tianjin provinces which included extensive lectures, practical, tours and technical visits brought luminosity to the type of construction of training facilities, training equipment, capacity building and other important things required to be considered by the NIT whilst undergoing this big transformation,” Mwageni said. Overall lessons learned by NIT staff in China “It is sensible to just make a recap of what we went through being an appreciation of our trip in China. In Beijing, we learned development of Chinese aviation industry and the contribution of AVIC International to the aviation industry in China and Worldwide. And the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), structure implies how big the aviation industry is–Chinese Airworthiness Department structure,functions, duties and responsibilities." “This gives an overview and also a challenge of where Tanzania aviation industry is supposed to be. We also learned Chinese culture with introduction to the wisdom of Master Kong (Confucius), Chinese Calligraphy and Chinese history, this shows how we have to value our culture by teaching from ground level," he explained. The visit to China training center provided light to the decision and setup of modern cabin crew training equipment. The NIT workers also visited the AVIC aircraft part manufacturing factory, this gave us an understanding of the development of the Chinese aviation industry and efforts in assuring the prosperity of the aviation industry. "We were also enlightened on how training is conducted in China, specifically Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics giving an opportunity for NIT to learn best practices to improve our training," Mwageni said. The NIT delegation had a chance to see facilities and equipment used by the centre in training the cabin crews. The NIT workers also visited Jinan University's STAECO training center and maintenance management to learn on the scope of activities carried out by centre. "This is one of the most important part, which correlate with Aeronautical Engineering department and NIT activities. It broadened our thinking of what we should have and what we can do to improve our workshops and capacity building." In Tianjin University At Tianjin University the delegation learned Virtual Maintenance as well as computer based training technologies relevant for adoption in Tanzania. NIT is currently undertaking capacity building which includes academic and professional upgrade of the workers. "We want to see all of the lecturers and staffs are holding Master and PhDs in the fields of aviation and other transport sectors and to also have professionally certified staff with Pilot/AME/Cabin Crew Instructor ratings, certified work shop technicians and technologists and administrative staff on aviation quality and safety issues," Mwageni said. "Generally, all the lectures and visitation merges with what NIT is planning to do during the transformation and is also in line with the Tanzanian aviation industry market needs." Observations made from the visits show that China has reputable universities and training centers for capacity building of aviation teachers and instructors. A good example is STAECO which is among the biggest AMO and MRO in China with many graduates from NUAA. The training equipment and facilities found in the training centers and university are worth for the aviation training at NIT, according to Mwageni.