DO you remember that very first school trip you ever went to as a kid? I believe you were thrashing your kid legs under the bed sheet in excitement and eagerness the night before, imagining how awesome it’ll be with your friends and what you’ll see, waking up and getting dressed before the rooster was appointed by the elders of tradition as the dawn time keeper. Yeah, me too. And it was awesome. I can’t help but wonder though, why can’t we do that in our lives today? This rings similar to that day when you finally pedaled that bike a few metres on your own for the first time, or finally learnt how to drive, or just started a new organisation, or just opened your business. Key phrase: for the first time. See, when we do anything for the first time, we are thrilled, cheeky and excited because in that time, we are living in the moment. We are present. Nothing else matters. Just like the scent of our perfume however, after a few times of experiencing it, we get used to it so much that the only one who can’t smell it is us. And that’s when we begin to wonder if we’ve applied enough; Or if we’ll deal with an issue well when it comes, or of how we’ll never allow anything to hurt us like last time. In other words, we start living in the future through worries and let our past experiences define our present through walls and predictions. We never give attention to the gift of now. A gift so obviously called the present. And that’s why what made us shrill in excitement once a time, has no effect on us anymore. But the thing is, no two days are the same nor will they ever be. I mean, go outside and look at the sky. Do you really believe that this grand creation that expands more than your eyes can see houses life that unfold through the experiences you went through? Of course not! Every single day, every single moment, is filled with unimaginable possibilities that we can never predict or assess with our very limited experiences. The kid in us understood this. That’s why they were excited, happy and care free. I mean we could have died on that trip. But the simple fact of trusting that whatever we’ve experienced is insignificant to the possibilities that lay ahead, in a humongous world like ours, allowed us to be that excited and happy for it. And we did it unconsciously which is so cool. We have the choice of experiencing each and every moment a new and observing it’s lessons for growth rather than judgement. This world is too big for our tiny experiences. It becomes so much lighter and happier knowing that whatever we think we know, stands no chance against a planet; A heavily body of possibilities. So every time you worry of the future or keep closed from the past, look to the skies and strap in for the roller coaster ride. Learn from it as much as you can and know that life is bigger than you could ever be. And that right there folks, is liberating. Don’t take life and yourself hostage with your past. Often a times, it’ll break free and leave you trapped alone with yourself. Simply put, live in the Present like the gift it is.