PATIENTS who have undergone cochlear implant surgery at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) have reached 34 in just two years since the service was introduced in the country. This time the service has been delivered at Muhimbili National Hospital’s Mloganzila campus, among the beneficiaries being a Rwandan national. A cochlear implant is more than a hearing aid, as it can treat complete hearing loss. A cochlear implant (CI) is a surgically implanted neuroprosthetic device that provides a sense of sound to a person with moderate to profound sensorineural hearing loss. Previously, the service was accessed abroad before efforts by the fifth phase government made it available locally and at low cost. “Local medical experts at MNH’s Mloganzila campus have successfully performed cochlear implant to three patients, where one of them is a Rwandan national who opted to seek this medical service in Tanzania, which translates that the hospital is now trusted beyond our borders,” MNH’s Acting Executive Director, Dr Julieth Magandi told reporters yesterday at the hospital’s headquarters in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam. She said that currently local experts are skilled to perform cochlear implant operations on their own at around 90 percent, and were able to switch on the device without any assistance from foreign experts, and according to her, some 31 patients had already underwent cochlear implant operation at different periods at the MNH’s headquarters. MHN’s Ear, Nose and Throat Specialist, Dr Edwin Liyombo said that such service will see more Tanzanians being treated for hearing loss problems locally at a low price, which in turn will attract more foreigners because the price in Tanzania is low compared to charges by foreign hospitals. “It costs up to 100m/-for on patient to get cochlear implant operation abroad, but in Tanzania, a single person pays not more than 36 million, and this will see more children saved from deafness and more patients from African countries coming to get treated in Tanzania,” Dr Said Liyombo. He went on to say that MNH and its Mloganzila campus were the first public hospitals to offer cochlear implant medical services in Sothern and Eastern Africa, and therefore more foreigners will seek this service in the country because it is cheaper than in private hospitals in other countries. Dr Liyombo said that some patients from Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda and Zambia were communicating with MNH on the possibility of seeking such medical service at MNH. He however counseled that Tanzanians must take precautionary measures to avoid things which may lead to deafness among children, saying that pregnant mothers must follow medical advice to avoid infection to their unborn children. “Pregnant women should attend clinic for medical advice, which they must follow diligently to avoid infection which may lead to giving birth to a child with hearing challenges,” he said.