THE government has ventured into strengthening skills and training capacity of agricultural training institutions to increase horticultural sector’s productivity. The government in collaboration with the Netherlands launched the two years and half programme, which among others, wants the acquisition of relevant knowledge, practical skills and attitudes for gainful employment in horticulture in all technical and vocational education and training (TVET). The over 2.5bn/- programme under the auspices of the Netherlands was launched here yesterday by the Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Joyce Ndalichako. The minister directed the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE) which is overseeing the programme to ensure technology and skills attained are transferred and shared countrywide. The programme will cover three institutions—Mahinya College of Sustainable Agriculture, Uyole agricultural College and Tengeru. “Much as the programme covers three colleges, NACTE should copy and paste the skills to other colleges to improve the horticulture industry taking into account the country’s industrial drive initiative,” she said. Moreover, she said, the trainers who benefit from the programme must as well train others so that many acquire the skills for the vibrant horticulture sector. Prof Ndalichako was optimistic that the beneficiaries will change their way of farming since through the programme there is a link between colleges- farmers and industries whereas the graduates will have all the practical skills needed for them to set up horticulture farms. She said the colleges must also think of reviewing their curriculum so that they match with the market needs and demands for increased chain of value. She went further saying that even after the end of the project the implementation should be sustainable whose impact must be seen in the horticulture sector trend. Prof Ndalichako said they should also observe quality and standards of the produce which is adhered to the international standards then with the arable land the country is blessed with the chances of the sector to increase contribution to the national is high. “We should learn from Netherlands whereas they are up for commercial farming thus agriculture sector being a leading contributor to their economic growth,” said Prof Ndalichako. She expressed the ministry’s commitment to work together with Agriculture sector to bring about changes in the sector which is looked at as weak by majority thus very few choose to engage fully in it. On his part, NACTE Executive Secretary, Dr Adolf Rutayuga speaking about the programme he said the programme will benefit the chosen colleges by having infrastructure, improved curriculum and horticulture farms. “Under the project, horticulture curriculum will be updated thus making it a national gadget which will be used by all agriculture training colleges and in so doing improve the sector’s performance,” said Dr Rutayuga. Dr Rutayuga said through the project, the three colleges will increase enrollement by up to 780 students an increase of 100 students in each institution.