REVENUES from tourism sector have been reportedly increased annually in Zanzibar and sports named among those played a role in that achievement. Among the events that draw a big number of tourists in the Isles is Diplomatic Golf Tournament that tees off on November 2nd at the Sea Cliff Resort & Spa Golf Club of Mangapwani, Zanzibar. The only Zanzibar golf Course Sea Cliff has been hosting several prestigious events and this time around it is the maiden Diplomatic tournament on the card. The event’s coordinator, Reinfrida Rwezaura, told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ in Dar es Salaam that preparation for the classy tournament is on a top gear for the high profiled tournament to take Zanzibar by storm. Zanzibar is a unique and the right destination for heritage tourism, from Stone town - a world heritage site, a collection of buildings has been marked as the most cultural and architecturally important in Zanzibar and the golf events that draws players from around the world, helps boost and sensitize tourism too. Rwezaura said that the tournament is set to bring together diplomats who will battle it out for the 18 holes tournament. But, she added that door is open for other golfers including chief executive officers to join diplomatic event. “We are organizing this event to bring together diplomats, harmonise friendship among them, get fun which is also beneficial to their health,” said Rwezaura. She added that they have already sent invitation to Diplomatic, Consular Missions and international agencies accredited to Tanzania and so far 15 of them have already registered. “We appeal for all golfers to come forward in a big number too, we open door for them too, all are welcome, Zanzibar is the best place to play and enjoy golf,” she said. Rwezaura added that Sea Cliff Casino and NBC are the sponsors of the event. The Sea Cliff golf manager Elias Soka said that they are looking forward to host diplomats who will play in the event. He said after staging successfully the CEOs Golf tournament, they can do well also in the first ever Diplomatic event.