THE influence of economic and political processes that affect specific economic opportunities for foreign investments and capital accumulation form a target for external control. This can extend to training programmes and technical missions which are meant to promote efficiency and ties with middle levels of the bureaucracy and research institutes which can later act as custodians of external interests. The aim of imperial state building is to provide a variety of access points to shape policy priorities and agendas in order to avoid having to act from outside. Trans-National Corporations (TNCs) do big business as they have much influence in Africa. The monopoly of technology and scientific skills that the TNCs command give them much advantage over African governments. They have a large size, relative financial autonomy, long term horizon and offer military mighty and political muscle of their powerful states. Thus they do have a strong position of bargaining vis-à-vis African governments. This is often shown through the management practices which TNCs display when management service agreements have been made. As soon as TNCs have won the confidence of African governments through their officials, they influence decision making on how economic or productive activities should be done in the interests of TNCs and their supporting governments. Even when there has been nationalisations as in Tanzania in 1967 and after, TNCs can still achieve influence through the neo-colonial structures and agreements and treaties. For example the National Development Corporation (NDC) in Tanzania, acquired majority shares in ownership in foreign-owned companies, on behalf of Tanzania government. One of these was the Tanzania Fertiliser Factory in which a West Germany firm, Kloeckner held 40 per cent shares and had a management contract. When it was thought necessary that a jetty be built for transporting the raw materials for the factory, it was NDC which exerted all the pressure necessary for the jetty to be built while it was likely that Kloeckner would be the net beneficiary of the whole project rather than Tanzania’s economy. What was important was to retain control of the means of production as to ensure the supply of important raw materials, expanding markets and good profits through influence of economic, political and planning processes. Transnational corporations like to do business under neo-colonial situations where they command an upper hand and influence and later control. Again this situation is not always got in vacuo but also shows the dubious behaviour of TNCs which can even use such means as corruption and bribery to achieve their greedy ends. Yet in the end it is those who get corrupted and bribed that betray their own people. Management agreements may require the host governments to guarantee political security and security against producers of goods services demands for high wages, strikes and other forms of class struggle. This aspect has been instrumental in some government passing laws declaring strikes illegal in the name of encouraging economic development while hosting transnational corporations. This political action bears a dictate of external needs and influence. Economic security and political stability, so claimed, have not helped host African economies because practice shows that the surplus and profits and resource drain flow to the metropole and thus the passed laws are mere lubricants for further advance of imperialist interests under a neo-colonial system. Indeed there is every reason to believe that neocolonialism can and do in major ways affect the directions and destinations of political process in Africa due to reliance on foreign finance which can very much affect the pattern of investments of the recipient countries. External forces have their ideas about their type of investments that should be made in Africa which also direct the kind of pressure over the structures and where to invest; the mode of utilising economic surplus and profits which, as a result, influence and guide economic activities and political processes in the ‘national economy’. African countries need progressive ideology Countries of Africa need progressive ideology to guide their struggles against neo-colonialism in order to achieve genuine economic liberation. Lack of progressive ideology is the root of crisis of Africa under neo-colonialism. Omimode, B. (1988) Wrote in ‘The Political Economy of Africa Crisis’ p. 303. “The greatest danger that has threatened Africa is the absence of progressive ideology. Countries of Africa have no conscious sense of political struggle to overcome neo-colonialism.” The Great leader of Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK) Kim IL Sung creatively developed the Juche idea as an ideology which guided successfully the anti- Japanese fascist imperialist domination and exploitation of DPRK in 1940s and the anti-United States imperialist aggression of DPRK in 1950s. The anti-imperialist struggles in DPRK have made North Korea achieve genuine independence and real sovereignty. DPRK is independent in economy, politics, culture and military against US military threats and economic sanctions. Juche philosophy on its essence and substance is that the masters of revolution and construction are the masses of people and they are also the motive force of revolution and construction. The revolutionary struggles and construction work are undertakings for the good of the masses and must be carried by the masses themselves as the masters. That is what fundamental change means and implies and what social transformation calls for. The people of Africa are the masters of the struggle for genuine independence and real sovereignty in each African country and the decisive factor of victory in this struggle is the country itself. A progressive African ideology should be created to reflect the wishes, hopes and aspirations of African ordinary masses. Africans have to carry thorough political education in organising political organisations or movements for successful struggles. But some Africa ruling elites who have neo-colonial mentality and foreign support would argue against organising and mobilising people in political education. Pro-neo-colonial ruling elites, would think that political education would mean indoctrinating people to support their enemy progressive Africans. The reactionary proneo- colonial African elites might have received colonial or neo-colonial education which prevented them from getting correct political consciousness and awareness. They would not support the struggle against neocolonialism because they are not capable to appreciate the power of the united African masses against neo-colonialism. That is why it is correct to say that Africa’s post-colonial crisis is due to lack of progressive ideological consciousness among some Africans particularly the greedy ruling elites. In order to lay the masses foundation for economic liberation it is necessary to awaken the masses and organise them. Although the people are the masters of the revolution and construction they need to be awakened and organised in order to play their role as dependable political base in the struggle for genuine economic liberation from neo-colonialism. The similarity between African traditional philosophy and the Juche idea is found in the common beliefs about man and his role and position in the world. Thus the Juche idea principle of man-centered philosophy to revolution and construction is appropriate to enrich the African traditional philosophy of man-centred philosophy. In African systems of governance, people themselves are responsible for developing their own country for transforming it from what it is to what they desire it to be. Adult education is the education of working people. It is of great significance in consolidating and developing a revolutionary world outlook and continually raising the level of general knowledge and technical and cultural standards. In order to succeed in the fulfillment of tasks in the building of a new society it is important first to make people more powerful being in a way worthy of the master of the world that is to get people to have progressive thought and cultural and technical attainments. Progressive people in Africa must rise up and fight against neo-colonialism. Patriotic progressive leaders of Africa should go to the masses of people, live with them, listen to them and learn from them. Patriotic progressive people of Africa must awaken national and patriotic consciousness as masters of their own countries and decide the destiny of their own countries. The commanding heights of the national economy should signify the power of the people so they should not be owned and controlled by neo-colonial investors. The commanding heights of the economy are the basis of a country’s genuine independence and real sovereignty. These are national patriotic, pride and self-reliance pillars of the economy. Privatisation of commanding heights of the economy and social assets in countries of Africa is contrary to the wishes of the popular masses in African countries. Dependent African capitalist middle class in some countries of Africa are beneficiaries of IMF and World Bank supported projects or those projects which are supported by Western Europe and US under neo-colonialism. Dependant African capitalist middle class and ruling elites who search for personal wealth and glorification should be made aware that neo-colonialism is the real enemy of development of countries of Africa. They should know that neo-colonialism is responsible for Africa’s wretchedness and backwardness. African philosophy and Africa ideology have to reflect African reality derived from the historical experience of Africa as correctly discussed by Rodney. W. (1972) ‘How Europe Underdeveloped Africa,’ Countries of Africa should have a common goal of struggling to achieve genuine independence and real sovereignty by overcoming and do away with neo-colonial domination, oppression and exploitation. Despite of the fact that all countries of Africa have achieved political independence and they have African governments, yet underdevelopment has persisted and deepened because of neo-colonialism which is detrimental to development of Africa. Development in counties of Africa has to serve the interests of people of Africa. Development for the people can only be achieved under conditions of genuine independence and real sovereignity of African states. People of Africa should learn that underdevelopment has persisted and deepened in Africa because of neo-colonialism. The New Economic Order is based on private sector development and liberalized free market economy which have roots in capitalism. In the capitalist economic practices of neo-colonialism with laissez faire free market conditions there is continued underdevelopment in countries of Africa. Even in countries in which some growth has been recorded and applauded but there has been no development to overcome poverty in the Africa’s toiling cultivators and workers. Under neo-colonialism Africans have no say to direct the way forward for Africa. The Africa bourgeois middle class leaders who are brain washed with neocolonial mentality are likely to follow without critical thinking foreign ideas and policies dictated by capitalist donor countries and IMF and the World Bank in order to qualify to be given foreign aid and foreign investments. Conclusion The hope for Africa to develop and prosper in social and economic sectors depend on the success in the struggles for economic liberation which should be guided by an African ideology. Application of science and technology are pre-requisites for social and economic development in Africa. Industrialization is essential for economic progress to realize the application of science and technology in the sectors of production. Self reliance and co-operation among countries of Africa is indispensible to freedom and development in Africa. All these pre-requistites for development in Africa culminate to the need of waging struggle by progressive and patriotic nationalists in order to achieve genuine development in Africa.