TANZANIA’s Higher Education Students’ Loans Board (HESLB) remains committed to learning more skills that can enhance efficiency in loan issuance and collections. HESLB Executive Director Abdul -Razaq Badru told a conference of Africa’s high education financing bodies here yesterday that already the board has recorded im- pressive achievements but it remains eager to acquire new lessons for further improve- ments. He said during the past four years of President John Magufuli’s reign, HESLB loan recovery has in- creased from 21.1bn/- in the 2014/2015 fiscal year to 183.2bn/- last year. The target is to col- lect 220bn/- in the current 2019/2020 year. The budget for higher ed- ucation loans also rose from 341bn/- to 427.5bn/- during the period under review and loan issuance is expected to hit a record high of 450bn/- this year to benefit over 128,285 students, with 45,000 of them first year. “Despite all these mile- stones, we believe that we can perform even better if we tap the best practices from our colleagues in the African con- tinent. We eagerly seek skills on how we can easily reach out to our beneficiaries in in- formal and private sectors,” he said. According to Mr Badru, HESLB expects to gain ex- periences from other schemes like Kenya’s Higher Education Loans Board, which was established 24 years ago and serves over 400,000 students annually. The 28-year old South Africa’s National Student Fi- nancial Fund (NSFAS) that currently serves over 600,000 students also has good lessons to offer. “Thanks to her experi- ence, South Africa has put in place a well-designed loans disbursement mechanism that restricts students to spend loan funds as intended through e-wallet system,” said Mr Badru, adding that Kenya’s national identification system has greatly helped in tracking all loan beneficiaries. Zambia’s Minister of Higher Education Dr Brian Mushimba, speaking at the official opening of Asso- ciation of Higher Education Financing Agencies’ (AA- HEFA) second annual confer- ence, challenged the bodies to reflect on the sustainability of the existing funding mechanisms. He acknowledged the commendable milestones that the continent has recorded but said sustainable financing and production of appropriate skills remain the biggest chal- lenges. Dr Mushimba told the five-day conference of the 13-year old association that sustainable financing is the biggest single challenge that haunts most, if not all, Afri- can countries, charging that AAHEFA has a critical role to advise African govern- ments on effective sustainable mechanisms. “The question that we must reflect and deliberate on is: how can we collectively enhance and sustain funding to higher education to meet ever increasing demand?” he told over 140 conference par- ticipants—chief executive of- ficers of agencies, their board members, politicians and dip- lomats—from 11 countries. Tanzania, Kenya, Rwan- da, Ghana, Uganda, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Malawi, South Africa and the host, Zambia, are attending the meeting. “We must remember that by 2045, African population is forecast to double and make Africa’s workforce the largest globally, surpassing both China and India...this calls for important reflec- tion to ensure production of appropriate skills to support development processes,” said Dr Mushimba. AAHEFA President and Chief Executive Officer of Kenya’s Higher Education Loans Board (HELB) Charles Ringera, in his welcoming remarks, said over 10 papers will be presented, discussed and deliberated upon by speakers from across Africa and beyond. “All the papers and re- ports are geared towards finding African solutions for Afri- can problems through lessons learnt and best practices,” he said. The association was formed in 2006 to serve as platform for information and experience sharing on com- mon matters to increase stu- dents’ access to higher education.