THE Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP), has brought together 50 civic leaders regardless their political affiliations. to discuss comprehensively barriers impeding women from vying for political posts in Sumbawanga District, Rukwa Region. Administratively Sumbawanga District embraces Sumbawanga Municipal Council and Sumbawanga District Council. The civic leaders, including councilors and those aspiring to contest in the forthcoming local government elections, gathered here for a three–day workshop which ended over the weekend. TGNP is a feminist organisation striving to contribute to the building of a vibrant transformative feminist movement that is grounded locally for the purpose of promoting gender equality and equity, women’s empowerment and social justice. The TNGP facilitator and activist, Ms Rehema Mwakatobe, said the aim of the workshop was to increase participation of Sumbawanga District women in politics and leadership. “Indeed we have told them to put drop beliefs that a woman’s job is in the kitchen; this is a wrong misconception,” she pointed out over the week end. The workshop was held here at a time when the country is preparing to hold local government elections on November 24, this year which will be followed by the General Election scheduled for next year. She further said that the workshop hosted by TGNP is expected to produce new elected women leaders in the precincts. During the workshop, Ms Mwakatobe enlightened participants on the fundamental rights of women vying for political posts and leadership. “ We (TGNP) believe that the participants will spread the education they got during the workshop when they return to their precincts,” she pointed out. A cross section of participants welcomed the workshop, promising to support the initiative by sensitizing Sumbawanga women to contest for political posts at all levels. Special seats Councilor, Ms Mary Kipalasha, expressed dismay over the tendency by some women not liking their colleagues to win political posts at all levels. “There are many women voters but some of us don’t give them support …this reminds us of the major challenges that we are facing,” Ms Kipalasha said at the weekend.