OVER 500 delegates from the Southern African Development Community’s (SADC) member states today start deliberating on environment, natural resources and tourism challenges. After the two-day meeting of experts from the sectors in the city, the joint ministerial meeting starts officially at the Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) today through Friday. The meeting is convened in Tanzania as the SADC chair seeks to look at environmental trends and climate changes, identify implementation of conservation and environmental management strategies through the SADC strategy on the Blue Economy and assess development in forestry, wildlife and tourism sectors. Natural Resources and Tourism Minister Dr Hamisi Kigwangala is scheduled to officiate at the permanent secretaries’ meeting that starts today while Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan will grace the ministers’ session here on Friday. Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources Dr Alloyce Nzuki and Director of Regional Integration Department in the ministry Agnes Kayola said here the delegates are expected to discuss the issues to help the bloc to achieve economic development. The key goal is to enhance peace and security; economic growth, poverty alleviation, standard and quality of life of people in the region as well as support to the socially deprived through regional integration. The Tanzanian government is keen to get positive results in the strategies it has set for the one year that President John Magufuli reigns as SADC Chairperson and is marshalling members of the public, especially those in business to tap the opportunities. There will be a series of meetings taking place in the country in the one year that Tanzania holds the SADC chairmanship. Ms Kayola unveiled some strategies by the ministry and government to enable the national flag carrier—Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL)— to revive its flights to SADC member states. Deputy Director of Tourism Department in the Ministry of Natural Resources Philip Chitaunga said the ministry is determined to see tourism benefitting small scale businesspersons. Available figures can substantiate the importance of tourism in the SADC region. The sector generates over 56 billion US dollars— over eight per cent of the region’s total Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and creates 6.3 million jobs, over six per cent of all jobs in the bloc. Mr Chitaunga said SADC objectives include using tourism as a vehicle towards sustainable social and economic development, ensuring equitable, balanced and complimentary development of the sector in the region, optimising resource usage and increasing the bloc’s competitive advantage through collective efforts. He mentioned goals as ensuring involvement of small and micro-enterprises, local communities, women and youths as well as contributing towards human resource development in the region through job creation and skills development. “SADC is further committed to creation of favourable investment climate, improvement of quality, competitive and standards of services; advancement of tourist safety and security standards in territories of member states; promotion of the region as single but multifaceted tourism destination,” said Mr Chitaunga.