ACADEMICIANS have urged higher learning institutions to prioritise students industrial attachment system, in efforts to smoothen commercialisation of their (universities) innovations. The call was made recently in Dar es Salaam by a retired senior lecturer, Prof Burton Mwamila, during a monthly research seminar titled “The Role of Applied Research in Fostering Industrialisation for Socio-economic Development in the country”, whose topic was “Hybrid Engine Development for Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) systems and petrol: Demystification of Blockchain Technology”. The seminar was organised by the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), during which Prof Mwamila commented that through the attachment system, industrialists/investors will have an opportunity to share with potential innovators (students) the requirements of markets, thereby enabling innovators to produce in line with demand. “That is one of the approaches by which we can quicken commercialisation of technological innovations, and thus achieve the industrialisation goal. Commercialisation of all innovative works in universities might be possible given the fact that investors have different needs. Most developed countries applied this method a long time ago; hence their successes,” he said. Prof Mwamila stressed that, it was well known that the commercialisation process entailed huge capital, which the universities alone could not afford without the support of investors. Head of Mechanical Engineering in DIT, Dr Ramadhan Kingo commented that Tanzania was in a good position to switch to an industrial economy once innovators are financially empowered so that they can commercialise their modern machines in good time. He said that despite innovators’ efforts to make available modern and affordable technologies, manufacturing and fabrication was still down due to the slow pace of the commercialisation process. DIT Principal Prof Prekisedis Ndomba commented that for a long time, the institution had been considering students’ and staff attachment system, with considerations that the system had multiple benefits, especially during this era, when the country is in a transitional period towards attaining industrial economy status. During field attachment, students gain various experiences, including how best locals can undertake big development projects which have been mostly run by foreign contractors. Apart from encouraging the attachment system, DIT saw the importance of having the modern ICT centre in the institute’s premises, as part of broader efforts to intensify regular practical methods of learning, said Prof Ndomba. Named Regional Flagship Information and Communication Technology, the Centre is under construction under a USD16.25m World Bank sponsorship, said the principal. “We really appreciate the efforts that have been made by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to scout for donors. The Centre is set to be in operation from the 2021 academic year, the main focus being to support industrialisation. ICT experts from the USbased Massachusetts Institute of Technology have already promised to be present for offering their expertise to the Centre’s students and local trainers,” he said.