IF there is one thing every nation must keep on recalling about patriotism is to visit Ronald Reagan, America’s 40th president school of thought that ‘if we ever forget that we are One Nation Under God, then we will be a nation gone under,’ which in simple terms translates as to survive in peace and harmony, united and strong, a country must have one people, one nation, one flag. A man’s country should not just be a certain area of land, but it should be a principle, and patriotism is loyalty to that principle. This can be seen in many aspects with a citizen loving and showing dedication towards one’s country. Patriotism is depicted in numerous ways, ranging from dedication towards serving one’s nation to being a fully law-abiding citizen, who pursues the best interests of one’s country. Back home, a Tanzanian who finds being patriotic as an obligation, will work towards the obligation of safeguarding community projects and prides in contributing material, spirit and time towards their sustainability. In simple words, the self-motivation that comes with being patriotic is also important in ensuring that the citizen upholds the law at all times, and therefore make them a law-abiding citizen would most likely evade all possible elements of contravening the law through committing of offences. Patriotism, when upheld by multiple individuals in the society, or at least the majority, becomes a uniting factor that promotes social cohesion. Patriotic individuals would tend to promote the rule of the law when it comes to conflict resolution and prevent the prospects of taking the law in their own hands. Having a patriotic person in the society is a likely precursor to promote peaceful coexistence in the neighbourhood. Patriotism also drives one’s incentives towards contributing positively towards their nation’s economic performance. In most cases, such nations having patriotic people often have the said people work hard towards the economic prosperity of their country. When the economic profile of a country flourishes, it is most certain that the livelihoods of the patriotic citizens would also flourish. President Reagan used this concept of relationship between patriotism and productivity to evoke and appeal to his citizens to become increasingly economically patriotic by doing something for their country, a case study Tanzanians should borrow a leaf from. Patriotism when rightly implemented and applied, can promote good governance. Ideally, patriotic citizens often work towards ensuring that their country is well governed. Ideally, such levels of patriotism are often evidenced in situations where citizens can stand out against social upheavals such as corruption and bad governance. Patriotism, therefore, is a value that is highly beneficial to oneself as well as to the rest of the members of the society. Upholding values of patriotism ensures that one can actively contribute towards the social-economic development of the society both at the local as well as at the national level. In this breathe, Tanzania wants you and I to dedicate time, energy and pay tax to develop it, not outsiders who would do it with strings attached.