THE newly confirmed Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Technical Director (TD) Oscar Mirambo said he will start working on upgrading domestic football coaches. Mirambo was officially recently paraded as the federation’s TD by General Secretary Wilfred Kidao after acting the post for a while. The previous position bearer Ammy Ninje resigned in June due to what he said family reasons and since then, Mirambo filled the void as its acting. However, speaking here, Mirambo said one of the areas he is going to concentrate on much during his tenure is to thoroughly groom local coaches such that they can too have opportunity to cross boarders and coach teams from outside the country. “I am a coach by profession and we coaches believe that a great player comes from a good coach hence its high time now that we start to be serious and fully train them,” he said. He added that the influx of many foreign based coaches in the country should be a challenge for Tanzania trainers to wake up and be serious with their responsibilities such that they should also be marketable to go for green pastures outside the nation. “Aside from giving our coaches the required skills, we need also to formulate applicable strategies to put much efforts on youth program development which is also a critical area in terms of fostering football in the country,” Mirambo said. Additionally, Mirambo said there must be consistence for the national teams to compete in big continental football events like AFCON saying that is another strong measure of the teams’ performance. “So far, our teams have been doing great on the international scene and we need to continue that legacy for many years to come,” he said. Furthermore, Mirambo said the growth of football in the country cannot be achieved by words only but rather, real work should be done on the ground that is why he is going to work tirelessly with his compatriots to accelerate the growth of the game. “The good thing is that we have already started drilling some coaches and we hope that the better they become, the more they will be able to impart basic football skills to the players. “Here, we are not interested to just have the big number of coaches but we are necessarily focusing to produce competent football trainers with all the required tactics to train well the players,” narrated Mirambo. He then hailed the management of TFF for entrusting him to lead the TD department vowing to undertake the duties serious despite the challenges which accompany it. “Generally, we cannot talk about football development without involving TD hence I have the big job to keenly drive this key department to prosperity,” he insisted.