THE Tanzania Medical Students Association (TAMSA), will conduct a two-day health screening exercise in Zanzibar starting today with over 3,000 people expected to benefit from the free-of-charge program. TAMSA President, David Mohamed Hassan said the screening will be conducted in collaboration with the Zanzibar Ministry of Health and other stakeholders. "We are committed to serve the public; Hence the screening exercise taking place from tomorrow demonstrates our aim, which is to speed up and propel community development through medical and community health services," said Mr Hassan. Second Vice- President Ambassador, Seif Ali Iddi is set to grace the opening of the exercise this morning while Minister for Health, Hamad Rashid will preside over its closure tomorrow. He underlined the importance of health screening and urged many people to show up at the Kisonge Grounds where the exercise will take place. "Detecting a condition early means getting the right treatment at the right time and this gives patients better control over their health," he said. The health screening program is part of the activities prior to Tamsa's 10th general assembly and 12th International Conference to be hosted by the Isles. Chairperson of the Organising Committee, Yahya Simba said the first part of the screening will give special focus to people living with disability, adding that over 15 diseases will be screened. "Medication services will be available for some common diseases, and we will also provide referral notes to those who will require further medical attention," said Dr Simba. "We understand that noncommunicable diseases are most common cases in Zanzibar; therefore the doctors will give them special attention," he added. He said preparations are in top gear for the general assembly and scientific conference whose main theme will be Universal Health Coverage. "Zanzibar is among few countries which have succeeded in implementing Universal Health Coverage for its citizens; That is why we decided to bring the annual meeting to Zanzibar. We are calling on other countries to emulate the Zanzibar lead and ensure quality and affordable health services to all their citizens," stated Dr Simba, adding: “TAMSA brings medical students at national level under a common umbrella with the purpose of promoting both excellent medical training as well as the medical students' efforts in health education and promotion for the betterment of our community.”