ALL is set for the 2019 National Basketball League (NBL) Southern Highlands Zonal competition to shoot out. The two-day league is scheduled to be staged on October 26 and 27 this year at Roman Catholic Youth Centre court in Mbeya. Joginda Msai, the zonal event’s coordinator told the ‘Sunday News’ from Mbeya yesterday that preparation is on a full swing ahead of the event. Msai said that they are delighted to see the zonal event grow year by year with an increase number of participants. “We expect to have a wonderful event from nine men’s teams and two women’s sides in the battle for two national level competition slots later this year,” he said. He added that the annual Southern Highland Conference event, is one of the prestigious events that bring together top team from Southern Highlands. He named the men’s teams confirmed increased from five last year to nine this time around as Buffalo and Iringa B both from Iringa, Makambako Basketball Club and Njombe Basketball Club all from Njombe, Vuawa Heroes of Songwe have been enlisted. Other teams competing in the event include the defending champion Flames and Superteam of Mbeya, Home Boys of Rukwa and Buffalo of Katavi. Msai named teams that will battle it out in the women’s category are Mbeya Flames Queens and Iringa Queens. He stressed that the increase in number of teams will spice up the competition challenge and so further develop the game. “We expect even more stiff competition this time around, we aware that all teams are wellprepared ready for the battle,” he said. Msai also appeals the government, institutions, companies and well-wishers to come forward and support the event. “The door is open for all who wish to support, companies can use this platform to advertise their products too, it is event that attracts many sports fans, we welcome all,” he said. He said they will also use the event to finalise selection of Mbeya team that will take part in the forthcoming national competition ‘Mataka Taifa Cup’ that is set for a showdown in Simiyu next month. “We are gear up to send Mbeya team at Taifa Cup this time around after missing it last year due to several reasons, we do not have any excuse this time, we have already won the title three times and we are hungry for titles once again."