TODAY we’re commemorating the life of our nation’s founder Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere. We do it by contemplating and discussing the legacy he left behind 20 years ago. Since Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere’s death in 1999, Tanzania’s population has shot up and many young people, who constitute half of population, never saw Mwalimu in his lifetime. Others, who are in leadership positions, young as well, only reach out to people to share stories they have read about Tanzania’s first president though they may have a remote memory of him. Mwalimu Nyerere’s global standing for justice, equal humanity and egalitarian economic policies still holds today. His passing is commemorated every year with academics, politicians and development analysts debating and mulling over his ideology, which put national interests first, while they, at the same time, reflect on the nation’s future. Mwalimu was born on April 13, 1922 in Butiama, on the eastern shore of lake Victoria in north west Tanganyika. He went on to train as a teacher at Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda. On gaining his certificate, he taught for three years and then went on a government scholarship to study history and political economy for his Master of Arts at the University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom . He was elected President in 1962, retired twenty years later and passed away in 1999 at St Thomas Hospital in London. Nyerere took for the people what many are now convinced were the right steps. Tanzanians have said Nyerere was unique and close to ordinary citizens. His uniqueness was in his lifestyle and in the strategies he advocated and put in place as matters of principle. True to his religion, Nyerere extolled justice and peace wherever he went. He denounced violence, describing it as “a confession of failure” because it “does not solve the basic problem of injustice nor put suffering in a positive context.” On justice, he was ardent, saying when performing their functions, judges or magistrates must not only be impartial, but also fair and unbiased and are bound to follow the laws of the land as they are. He or she should strive to properly interpret the meaning, significance, and implications of the law. Judges and magistrates must also recognize that justice means more than just interpreting the law, they must also show compassion and understanding for the people on both sides of the case. During a meeting of March 16, 1984, Mwalimu Nyerere said: “I am quite sure that Tanzanians do not want a Judiciary which has no principles and which carries out the wishes of the government or party leaders instead of respecting the law,” He went on: “Tanzanian people want a party with principles, a government with principles and a Judiciary with principles.….The truth is that the protection of the principle of the independence of the Judiciary is in your hands and especially in the hands of the senior judges such as those at this meeting. “You must enforce discipline strictly throughout the judiciary and do so without being swayed by personal sympathy for the wrong doer or fear of unpopularity should he be related to persons known to you.” Mwalimu Nyerere admitted that there was a wider gap between Tanzania’s principles and practices than there should be. He refers to the ‘sickness of bribery and corruption’ which had entered society and he explains that it could not yet be said that people were absolutely equal before the law. In order to observe the required principles, the Judiciary of Tanzania, which is one of the three arms of the state, must be independent. The other two arms are Executive and Legislature. Among the main functions of the Judiciary is adjudication of cases and interpreting laws made by Legislature. Today, however, in President John Magufuli, people see a trait of Nyerere’s that gives them hope and optimism about the future of the nation. Others describe him as a rare person sent by God to remind Tanzanian citizens of their responsibility to the nation and of their own dignity.