NATIONAL Assembly Deputy Speaker, Dr Tulia Ackson, has urged members of the public to support the government in the fight against gender-based and domestic violence and enable girls to realise their dreams. She made the call at a forum of the voices of girls with a slogan “Girl show your power, bring change in society” organised by Child Dignity Forum (CDF), in collaboration with the University College of Education Dar es Salaam (DUCE), under the sponsorship of the Swedish Embassy. The purpose of the forum was to facilitate, promote and strengthen the movement of girls and women in leadership and create a network that would help them discuss challenges faced by them and suggesting alternatives. “I am delighted to see the efforts made by the CDF in the country in protecting the dignity of the girl child. You, girls and women, must adhere to the slogan by showing your strengths and taking action as change begins with us and avoid engaging in immoral behaviour that will result in early and unwanted pregnancy,” she explained. According to her, many efforts have been made by the government and will continue doing so despite the challenges. The government will continue improving water services to help girls not spend more time in search of water, but instead spend it in studies. “We as part of the community want to see girls utilise opportunities especially in education to enable them to make informed decisions for future development,” she said. CDF Acting Excutive Director Lennyster Byalugaba said the forum was part of activities to mark International Day of the Girl Child held every year on October 11 to address challenges facing the girl child, including early marriage. About 250 girls from Dar es Salaam, Dodoma and Mara regions participated. Ms Byalugaba said the forums covered a range of topics such as women and leadership, traditional customs and practices, sexual and internet violence, reproductive health rights and legal and policy systems. She said in Parliament 37 per cent were women and this showed women had a place in society and in the nation in general. Tanzania is the 28th country in the world to recognise gender equality. On the same occasion, Ambassador of Sweden to Tanzania Anders Sjoberg said they would continue their agenda of helping women realise their dreams and claim their rights and resources. DUCE Principal Prof Bernadeta Killian said they had been working well with CDF to organise the forum that brought girls together in the country so that they could exchange ideas as well as help the community in general.