THE Netherlands Ambassador to Tanzania, Mr Jeroen Verheul has challenged Tanzanian photojournalists to hone their skills to enable them take descriptive pictures to win in the World Press Photo contest. The envoy threw the challenge in Dar es Salaam on Thursday at event to launch World Press Photo exhibition, showcasing the winning photos for the year 2019. Since 1955 the World Press Photo Contest has recognised professional photographers for the best pictures contributing to the past year of visual journalism. The 2019 World Press Photo of the year is by John Moore from the US, displaying a Honduran toddler crying as she and her mother are taken into custody by US border officials on June 12, 2018. "This is the second world press photo exhibition to take place in Tanzania after the first one held last year. The aim is not only to display the photos but also to encourage Tanzanian photojournalists," Mr Verheul explained. He said professional images are crucial because they bring up stories. It is a power of visualisation. "We hope this year more Tanzanians would participate since in the past two years there was no nominee from Tanzania, we bringing this exhibition to promote photojournalists from Tanzania to participate," he said. Exhibition manager, Ms Sanne Schim van Dev Loeff, said in order for people to win they should share their pictures with the World Press Photo, and the period for submitting entries is from December to February every year. Though she advised Tanzania media house to invest more in their photo desks by acquiring advanced cameras, but she quickly argued that having good camera doesn't guarantee a good picture, but rather skills. She said this year's contest had received a total of 78,800 photos from over 4,000 photojournalists worldwide. On his part, Tanzanian senior photojournalist, Mr Mwanzo Milinga, who is also World Press Photo trainer for Tanzania, said many Tanzanian photojournalists fail to participate in the contest due to lack of information over the contest.