THREE Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU) Officials were on Wednesday set free by the Kagera Resident Magistrate’s Court, after entering into a plea-bargain agreement with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to refund 124m/-they had obtained under false pretense from the government. Acting on amnesty granted by President John Magufuli to persons charged with economic offenses, the three are among the latest people facing ‘economic sabotage’ and money laundering charges, who have sought presidential pardon with condition that they return what they had stolen. State Attorney, Haruna Shomari named one of the officials facing Economic Case No 4/2018 as former KCU Board Chairman, John Binunshu (83), former KCU General Manager, Vedasto Ngaiza (76) and former Acting Chief Accountant, Bestina Rwebangira (60). Shomari told the Kagera Resident Magistrate in-charge, John Kapokolo that suspects had already paid back the stolen 124m/-and had written a letter to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), showing their intention to confess to the crime and be forgiven. “Your honour, under Section 91 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), Cap 20 the DPP has no intention to continue with prosecution of the case. We hereby enter a Nolle Prosequi plea and ask the court to drop the charges against the accused persons,” he said. In response, Magistrate Kapokolo granted the prayer and immediately set free them free. Shomari had earlier testified before the Resident Magistrate Kapokolo when the accused were arraigned for the first time on August 29, last year, that on different dates during 2011, the trio, being employees of the Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU), connived and occasioned a pecuniary loss to the Union amounting 124m/-. Other offenses which had faced them included misuse of public office, forgery, misuse of their positions and conspiracy to commit a felony. In the case, Judge Lilian Mashaka from the Economic Crimes Control Court set bail conditions, where each was asked to deposit 20.6m/-cash or deposit a title deed of immovable property of same amount and certified by a Government Valuer. The accused were also asked to present two reliable sureties who should sign a bond of 5m/-and surrender their passports/travel documents. They were also not allowed to travel outside Kagera Region without a leave note by the Bukoba Resident Magistrate’s Court. Recently, President John Magufuli received a list of 467 economic sabotage suspects, who had opted to plead guilty to their charges and repay over 107bn/-for release from Prison custody. During the dossier receipt at the State House in Dar es Salaam, President Magufuli extended the deadline of seven days to allow other accused persons, who could have failed to meet the initial deadline to do so. The accused had to October 7, 2019 to submit their confessions in handwritten note to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Dr Magufuli had on September 22, 2019, while swearing-in various leaders he had appointed, advised the DPP to consider dropping charges facing economic crime suspects through legal channels should they confess their crimes and repay back any stolen money and property. However, he warned that after the expiry of the deadline there would be no mercy for the economic saboteurs, and in turn ordered the Chief Prosecutor to press hard on their charges in courts.