THE Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam has dismissed the request by nine senior officials of the opposition political party Chadema to start calling 200 other independent witnesses first before giving their own defence testimonies against the sedition charges they are facing. Instead, Principal Resident Magistrate, Thomas Simba directed the officials, including the party's National Chairman, Freeman Mbowe, to enter the witness box first before calling other witnesses. The magistrate pointed out that Section 144 of the Law of Evidence Act gives the order of production and examination of witnesses and that being a criminal case, the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA) was the one regulating procedure of conducting such trial. "It is a common practice that the accused person once found with a case to answer is to start giving one’s own defence evidence. I don't see any injustice for the accused to start their testimony first before parading other witnesses," the magistrate said. According to him, the defence has not convinced the court as to why it should depart from such good practice that has been in place for a long time. Initially, Advocate Peter Kibatala had proposed to the court to parade other witnesses instead of starting with the accused persons themselves. However, the prosecution led by Principal State Attorneys; Faraja Nchimbi and Zainabu Mango, as well as State Attorney, Jacqueline Nyantori, vehemently opposed the proposed procedure, as it was neither backed by available practice nor laws under the Criminal Procedure Act and Law of Evidence Act. After delivery of the court's ruling, another legal wrangle emerged with the defence requesting for sufficient time to prepare for the testimonies against the charges and that they should be supplied with exhibits, including the video tape allegedly showing how the accused committed the offences. The magistrate adjourned the matter to October 21, for another ruling on the request. Other accused persons are the party's Secretary General, Dr Vincent Mashinji, Deputy Secretary General (Mainland), John Mnyika and his Zanzibar counterpart, Salum Mwalimu. The rest are Peter Msigwa (Member of Parliament (MP), for Iringa Urban, Halima Mdee, the MP for Kawe, John Heche, the MP for Tarime Rural and Ester Bulaya, who is MP for Bunda Urban as well as the MP for Tarime Urban, Ester Matiko. They are charged with 13 counts of conspiracy to commit offences, unlawful assembly, rioting after proclamation, raising discontent and ill-will for unlawful purposes, sedition and inciting commission of offences. The charges are alleged to have been committed between February 1 and 16, 2018 in the city. The prosecution alleges that on February 16, 2018, along Kawawa Road at Mkwajuni area, being assembled with intent to carry out a common purpose, jointly and together, all accused persons conducted themselves in such a manner as to cause fear and breach of peace.