RESIDENTS from four villages in Sumbawanga District and Sumbawanga municipality in Rukwa Region have every reason to smile after the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, returned 5,295 acres of farm land to village governments. The two dockets have successfully resolved a land dispute that had spanned more than twenty years between Mollo Agricultural Prison and Prophet Josephat Mwingira of Efatha ministry on one hand, and the people of Malonjeni municipality and Sikaungu, Msanda–Muungano and Songambele in Sumbawanga District Council on the other. The good news was shared by Minister for Home Affairs, Kangi Lugola at Malonje village while addressing a public rally shortly before he handed over 1,800 acres of farmland to Malonje village government and 495 acres to Msanda Muungano village government taken from Mollo agriculture prison. At Mallonge village, the handing over contract was signed by Rukwa Regional Prison Officer (RPO), Maiko Kimabo and Mollo Prison Head, Francis Nkurushi. The minister explained that the success stories were made possible by the cooperation between Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Joachim Wangabo and the Ministry of Home Affairs. “You have all the reason to rejoice as the dispute has been solved amicably; previously, the land dispute caused great suffering as people and law enforcers lost their lives. I addition, citizens were hauled into courts for allegedly invading farmland that wasn’t theirs,” added the minister. He emphasized that the contract signed by the Malonje leadership has a clause stipulating clearly that the land in question will be rented to citizens freely but they are not allowed to sell it. Earlier, the RC told the minister that the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements Development and his office communicated with Prophet Mwingra who accepted to part with 3,000 acres of farmland which were given to three village governments of Sikaungu, Songambele and Msanda Muungano, each of which got 1,000 acres. “The investor owns the land legally as the Rukwa regional government through Sumbawanga Municipal Council and Sumbawanga District Council sold it to him,” he said. He further noted that Efatha ministry previously had 25,000 acres of farmland but now has 22,000 acres after parting with 3,000 acres Mollo Agriculture Prison previously had 12,000 acres of farmland.