CHINESE enterprises from Jiangsu province are highly welcomed to invest in Tanzania and to all member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Their investments, apart from playing a great role in enhancing cooperation between China and SADC countries, are also guaranteed of reliable market from the bloc that has population of 345 million people with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) amounting to 600 billion. The Tanzanian Ambassador to China Mr Mbelwa Kairuki made the statement yesterday here during the launch of a two-day Jiangsu- SADC high level seminar of investment and development. Mr Kairuki issued a speech on behalf of all SADC diplomats to China. Areas of investment that were highly marketed are infrastructure, agriculture, industries, tourism and mining. “There is a conducive business environment to all investors so you are highly welcomed to open and operate business projects to our region, there are plenty opportunities that have to be enhanced,” said the diplomat in a note that was supported by all ambassadors from SADC present at the event. Mr Kairuki also reiterated SADC commitment to working together with Jiangsu province which is well recognized for its growing economy which is the second highest with official statistics recording its GDP at $1.2 Trillion. According to the ambassador, there are some companies from Jiangsu province have invested in industrial sector in Tanzania. During the forum, the participants were presented with opportunities for economic cooperation from director of Infrastructure from SADC Secretariat Ms Mapolao Mokoena and eleven ambassadors from SADC member states. The forum that will be concluded today, goes together with panel discussion in various topics set to provide critical insights in the bloc and the ground solution to challenges arising from financing, risk management and cultural integration for Jiangsu’s outbound investment. “It is part of implementation of consensus reached last year during the Beijing Summit of Forum on China- Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), where the heads of states agreed to work together on enhancing friendship and building a community with a shared future,” said Mr Kairuki. The forum was attended by nearly 300 decision makers from international organizations, government entities, think tanks and enterprises. Earlier, on his opening remarks, the deputy governor of Jiangsu province Mr Ma Qiulin said the province was ready to work with SADC countries on pushing forward development at all levels. He said numbers of companies from the province have been investing in Africa and that they will keep doing that for the greater interest of the two parts.