AFTER establishing successfully three out of six projected agricultural clusters, the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (Sagcot) says its preoccupation now is to ensure small holder farmers in the corridor get reliable local and foreign markets. Responding to reporters’ questions on Sagcot’s performance in the past nine months, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Geoffrey Kirenga, said the institution’s priority now is to ensure crops produced by farmers in the corridor have reliable markets and also ensure farmers are depended upon by Tanzanian agro-processors for quality raw materials. “Agricultural transformation has never been easy anywhere in the world. We struggled creatively without losing bearing. Now our three clusters are on firm footing. Our preoccupation now is to ensure our farmers access reliable local and foreign markets,” said a relaxed agronomist in charge of Tanzania’s prestigious institution that seeks to bring 350,000 hectares of good land into profitable production, push 100,000 small farmers into commercial farming and create 420,000 new job opportunities in the southern regions of Tanzania in the next 11 years. The three clusters are Ihemi, Mbarali and Kilombero the strategic agricultural production tracts being used by the Sagcot to transform farming in Iringa, Njombe, Mbeya, Songwe and Morogoro Regions. Clusters that are yet to be developed are Ludewa, Sumbawanga and Rufiji. A cluster is defined as a geographic concentration of interconnected companies, speicialised suppliers, service providers and associated institutions. Further, the Sagcot and its partners aspire to transform the corridor into an illuminating region that generates 1.2 US dollar billions of farmer revenue and contributes steadily to Tanzania’s industrialisation drive. Using an agro-industrialisation approach, Tanzania wants to become a middle-income industrial nation in next six years. Giving as an illustrative example, Mr Kirenga said five of Sagcot’s most important value chains relating to tea, potatoes, dairy, tomatoes, and animal feed/soya had been a great success in, particularly Ihemi cluster. In the last four years the institution, he explained, identified the opportunities on those value chains and attendant challenges. Without giving statistics, the CEO said on the whole production in the three clusters doubled, attributing that success to increased use of farm inputs, better agricultural education, introduction of new technologies, use of insecticides and linking of farmers to reliable local and foreign markets.