REGIONAL Short and Medium sized entrepreneurs as well as women in business will have a rare chance of showcasing their latest industrial technology, products and services during the upcoming investment summit and exhibition. Over 300 top Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), industry champions, women in business, SMEs and investors from the region and beyond will engage in high-level dialogue with the EAC Council of Ministers. Scheduled for Arusha next month, the second East African Business, Investment Summit and Exhibition has been organized by the East African Business Council (EABC) in partnership with Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) and the East African Community (EAC). The event is set to proceed the EAC Heads of State Summit next month, according to a statement availed to ‘Daily News’, yesterday. “This year’s Business Summit is unique as it aims to set the economic agenda and outlook for East Africa, as the region commemorates 20 years of EAC regional integration process in November,” the statement read in part. The Business Summit which is organized under the theme “EAC@20: Private Sector Driven Regional Integration”, will set the pace for the EAC region to chart out a common and shared economic vision in partnership with the private sector. It is expected to undertake an audit of achievements, impediments and prospects of the EAC regional integration process in light of the Customs Union, Common Market and Monetary Union Protocols as well as continental and global developments. Various topical areas affecting trade and investment are expected to be deliberated on, among which are; facilitating and increasing intra- EAC trade and investments, leveraging on the African Continental Free Trade Area, Digitalization, Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises and Industrial development during the different plenary and break-away sessions. “The Resolutions of the Business Summit shall be submitted to the EAC Council of Ministers and Summit of EAC Heads of State in a bid to turn policy into practice to deliver quick wins for the region,” the statement read. The event is co-organized in close collaboration with the respective EAC Investment Promotion Agencies and EABC National Focal Points namely; the Federal Chamber of Commerce and Industries Burundi (CFCIB), Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), Rwanda Private Sector Federation (PSF), South Sudan Chambers of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (SSCCIA), Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) and the Private Sector Foundation Uganda (PSFU).