AFTER putting a stunning performance in the Premier League match against Young Africans on Thursday, Polisi Tanzania striker Ditram Nchimbi has been drafted in the national senior team, Taifa Stars picked for a friendly tie against Rwanda on October 14. Taifa Stars interim head coach, Etienne Ndairagije announced yesterday in Dar es Salaam that he has added Nchimbi in his squad to play against Rwanda, just a day after unveiling a 28-strongman squad for the match. Ndairagije disclosed that Nchimbi who had scored a hat-trick against Yanga in the Thursday Premier League game had taken a place of the KRC Genk striker Mbwana Samatta whom he decided to rest. He added that Nchimbi has attracted the technical bench following his impressive performance in the league. He said his skill and techniques are urgently needed to bolster the team, especially in the return leg match against Sudan in the CHAN qualifier. “We have been attracted by Nchimbi’s performance that’s why we have decided to bring him aboard and be part of our plans. We are sure he will strengthen the team’s attacking force against Sudan,” he unveiled. On the reason why he had decided to omit and rest Taifa Stars skipper Samatta , Ndairagije said the skipper is not 100 per cent fit as he is still nursing injury sustained during FIFA 2020 World Cup qualifying match against Burundi. He said Samatta had asked to be omitted so he can continue with a recovery programme as his health is vital and needs to be fit for the coming games. As well, the coach said apart from the truth that Samatta is currently featuring for his Belgian side KRC Genk in the UEFA Champions League, the technical bench has thought it will be wise to let him feature in the world’s most popular league since he also promotes his the nation. According to the coach , Samatta asked the technical bench to omit him from the squad called for the international friendly against Rwanda saw he can fully committed in his injury recovery programme. On Thursday coach Ndairagije named the national U-20 team ‘hitman’ Andrew Albert Simchimba and his partner Kelvin John have in the 28-man Taifa Stars squad for a friendly game against Rwanda. The full list of the squad has: Goalkeepers; Juma Kaseja (KMC), Metacha Mnata) Young Africans and Saidi Kipao (Kagera Sugar). Defenders; Salum Kimenya (Tanzania Prisons), Shomari Kapombe (Simba), Gadiel Michael (Simba), Mohamed Hussein (Simba), Kelvin Yondani (Young Africans), Erasto Nyoni (Simba) and Bakari Nondo (Coastal Union). Midfielders; Himidi Mao (ENPIP, Egypt), Jonas Mkude (Simba), Farid Mussa (Tenerif, Spain), Adil Yusuf (Selihul, England), Mudathir Yahya (Azam), Salum Abubakar (Azam), Frank Domayo (Azam) and Feisal Salum (Young Africans) and Mzamiru Yassin (Simba) and Abdulaziz Makame (Young Africans). Strikers; Kelvin John (U-20), Shaaban Iddi (Azam), Simon Msuva (Al Jadid, Morocco, Andrew Simchimba (U-20), Miraji Athumani (Simba) and Ayub Lyanga from Coastal Union.