THE national team, Taifa Stars will start preparations today at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam prior to their international friendly match against Rwanda in Kigali on October 14th. Stars will use the match as part of training for away 2020 African Nations Championship (CHAN) second leg tie against Sudan on October 18th this year. The first leg tie at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam ended 1-0 in a favour of Sudan, a situation that forces Tanzania to win once they want to play in the event’s finals. CHAN is a competition which engages only domestic league players. However, speaking on the preparation development yesterday, Taifa Stars Assistant Coach, Juma Mgunda said 29 players who have been included in the squad began to regroup yesterday ready to start the warm-ups. “All is set for today’s preparations and those players who trade professional football outside the country are expected to join their colleagues in three-days time from today according to the available schedule,” he said. He added that he expects the camp to bring the required chemistry which will be used to derail Rwanda at their own backyard insisting that despite the match being friendly, it is vital since it falls under the FIFA calendar. Moreover, Mgunda said a win over Rwanda will help to restore back confidence among people prior to the CHAN qualifiers against Sudan admitting that they need nothing else but victory from the reverse battle. Star’s technical bench is made up of Interim Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije from Burundi, who is backed by two Tanzanians Juma Mgunda and Seleman Matola. However, in the previous interview, Ndayiragije admitted that Star’s captain Mbwana Samatta will miss the upcoming clash against Rwanda since he is not 100 percent fit. “He (Samatta) requested not to be included in the friendly game against Rwanda because he is still undergoing recovery period. If you may recall, he was injured during the home match against Burundi since then, he has not yet been fully fit,” the coach said. Additionally, Ndayiragije pointed out that Samatta is currently playing in UEFA Champions League (UEFA CL) as such, it will be important for him to use this period to relax bearing in mind that playing in UEFA CL is an opportunity for him to upgrade his football status across the world.