BUGASHA residents in Muleba District’s Mayondwe Ward have every reason to rejoice. For quite a long time pregnant women and even children had to travel a long distance of 15 kms to Kagondo Mission hospital for medical treatment. It is no wonder some died on the way before reaching the hospital. With support from World Vision Tanzania however, they recently completed construction of a dispensary at a cost of 74m/-. People contributed bricks, sand and labour in a village comprising three hamlets with a population of 3,800 people. However, it is disappointing to note that the dispensary has not started providing services two years after the people completed the construction. Muleba Acting District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Francis Abdillian said they had already informed the Ministry for Health and were waiting for a code number from the Medical Stores Department (MSD) to allow them to buy drugs and medical equipment for the dispensary. By ensuring that health facilities are equipped to deliver comprehensive emergency obstetric and newborn care services, we can effectively address the fatal complications of childbirth, including severe bleeding, infection, prolonged or obstructed labor, eclampsia, and asphyxia in the newborn. Malaria remains one of the world’s leading killers, claiming the life of one child every two minutes. Most of these deaths are in Africa, where more than 250,000 children die from the disease every year. Children under 5 are at greatest risk of its life-threatening complications. Worldwide, malaria kills 435,000 people a year, most of them being children. Kagera Regional Maternal Health Co-ordinator, Ms Neema Kyamba disclosed that about 209 pregnant women died due to pregnancy complications between 2012 to 2014. Out of the number 68pregnant women died during 2012, 72 died during 2013 while 69 pregnant women died in 2014, implying an average of 69.3 per cent within a three year period. The deaths were attributed to excessive bleeding (PPH), eclampsis, sepsis, malaria and obstructed labour. All these preventable deaths could have been avoided through timely delivery of medical care. The rate of malaria in Kagera has slightly dropped from 41 per cent recorded during 2017/18 to 14 per cent this year while the national average stood at 7.1 per cent, Kagera Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Marco Mbata said citing concerted efforts they mounted in the region including indoor residual spraying (IRS) and use of insecticide treated nets (ITN) and polio jabs to infants. The number of dispensaries increased from 206 during 2005 to 239 by 2010, health centres increased from 21 (2005) to 28 (2010) while the number of hospitals also increased from 13 during 2005 to 15 by 2010. The infant mortality rate (IMR) for children aged below five years also dropped from 110 per 1,000 children during 2005 to five per 1,000 children during 2010. The mortality rate for children aged above five years improved from 182 per 1,000 children (2005) to 28 per 1,000 children (2010). The government has continued to improve maternal and child health services in its hospitals, health centres and dispensaries with the aim of reducing child mortality. The government in collaboration with other stakeholders, had reduced the number of deaths to children under one year from 90 in 1000 live births to 43 in 1000 live births. This is a 50 per cent reduction in the number of deaths. Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu said the governmentt is also working on other interventions so that the number could further decrease….we have also reduced under five deaths from 147 to 67 in 1000 live births. Malaria is still a leading killer disease claiming almost 700,000 lives in Africa annually. Out of the number, 595,000 of them were young children. Complications during pregnancy and childbirth are a leading cause of death and disability among women of reproductive age in developing countries. Statistically, maternal mortality contributes to only 2.3 per cent of the total mortality. According to recent estimates in 2013, total maternal deaths and MMR in Tanzania are 7,900 and 410 per 100,000 live births respectively. The main direct causes of maternal death are haemorrhages, infections, unsafe abortions, hypertensive disorders and obstructed labour . The presence of these causes is exacerbated by HIV and malaria, Tanzania’s number one killer. The fact that more than half of births in Tanzania occur at home also contributes to the elevated maternal mortality rate. Of all pregnant women, only 46 percent are assisted during childbirthby a doctor, clinical officer, nurse, midwife or maternal and child health aide. Lack of affordable, quality health care continues to trap many in poverty. Globally, as many as 100 million people a year are pushed into poverty due to high health care costs and about 30 per cent of households in Africa and Asia have to borrow money or sell assets to pay for health. It is little wonder that Universal Health Coverage (UHC) is at the centre of global policy debate today. However, much remains to be done to realize the dream of UHC in Africa. Countries across the continent are still struggling to drive down maternal and child mortality, malaria and malnutrition while addressing the rising burden of non-communicable diseases (NCDs, such as diabetes and cancer. In addition, although Africa accounts for 24 per cent of the global burden of disease, it has only 3 per cent of the global health workforce and 11 million Africans are pushed into poverty andremain poor every year due to health care costs. In high transmission settings, parasites are present in the placenta and contribute to maternal anemia which may lead to low birth weight and even fetus death. In low transmission settings, malaria in pregnancy is associated with anemia and increased risk of severe malaria, spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, prematurity, and low birth weight of the newborn child. In endemic areas, malaria in pregnancy is often asymptomatic, especially in cases of primigravidae; additionally the parasite may be undetectable in peripheral blood smears, causing the delay in disease treatment. In 2001, aiming to decrease the disease cases in pregnancy, Tanzania adopted the IPTp policy, which recommends sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) for all pregnant women, starting from the second trimester, at each scheduled ANC visit until the time of delivery. Later in 2006 the observed decline in parasite sensitivity to SP resulted in the policy being updated and the SP was recommended to be replaced with artemisininbased combination therapy (ACT). In most malariaaffected countries, sleeping under an insecticide-treated net (ITN) is the most common and most effective way to prevent infection. In 2016, an estimated 54 per cent of people at risk of malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa slept under an ITN compared to 30 per cent in 2010. The World Health Organization (WHO), reported that in 2018 glabally the progress in reducing the burden of malaria stalled mainly because ten high burden countries still contributed up to 55 per cent of more than 219 million cases.