UPBEAT Young Africans leave for Mwanza today ready for their tricky CAF Confederation Cup play off clash against Pyramids of Egypt. Yanga, who opted to shift the venue of the playoff match against the Egyptians from the National Stadium to CCM Kirumba in Mwanza, believe the new venue is ideal for a big match. The squad comprising 24 players will be involved in a mission to demolish Pyramids, according to the club’s Vice Chairman, Fredrick Mwakalebela. Under the tutelage of Congolese tactician Mwinyi Zahera, Yanga will play Mbao FC in their fourth Premier League match, which the club officials also take it as the final build-up game before hosting the Egyptian side. Speaking about the Confederation Cup preparation, Mwakalebela disclosed that all is well so far, however the team will still miss the services of their two key players; David Molinga and Mustafa Suleiman who are still waiting for a go ahead from CAF. Yanga will also miss the services of their central defender, Lamine Moro who is serving a match ban following a foul he committed in their CAF Champions League match against Zesco United. Apart from that Yanga also unveiled the entrance fees for their match against Pyramids FC, starting with Platinum tickets to be sold at 70,000/- , and V.I.P at 50,000/- while the lowest will be 10,000/-. While plotting Pyramids downfall in Mwanza sources in Egypt warn Yanga against their opponents’ good away record and they must not let the Ghanaian John Antwi dictate terms at their goal. His goal scoring peak was in 2014 when he was named the Egypt League’s top scorer. Yanga are facing a team that has baffled football fans in Egypt and Africa. The emergence of the Saudibacked Pyramids FC has transformed the football landscape, bringing money, players, conflict and controversy. The owner of Al Assiouty, a mid-table Egyptian Premier League side, announced in June 2018 that his club would be sold to Al-Sheikh. And Al Assiouty would move from Beni Suef to Cairo and change its name to the more attention-grabbing, if a little clichéd, Pyramids FC. In July, after announcing he would drop his lawsuits against Al Ahly, Al-Shiekh told Egyptian TV: “I am currently concentrating all of my work on Pyramids FC, which is going to leave its mark on Egyptian, Arab and world football.” Ali Gabr and Ahmed Tawfik were snatched from Al Ahly’s traditional rivals Zamalek and sights were set on Brazil’s Série A to add some South American swagger to the newly-established side. Pyramids have certainly shaken things up, injecting some muchneeded cash into the country’s football economy and competition into the league. Even the longstanding stadium ban, which had been in place at all league games since the Port Said stadium riot left 74 dead in 2012, was lifted. The man who sold Al-Assiouty to Al-Sheikh, Mahmoud Al-Assiouty, told Egypt’s Daily News the Pyramids effect “has been great. It stirred the stagnant water.”