EFFORTS to revive the Morogoro based Star City Development project got new impetus after interventions by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to resolve challenges that stalled the implementation since its licensing in 2016. Significant strides were reached after the work meeting held in Morogoro over the weekend addressed the long contentious issue on the issuance of the title deed of the 4314 hectares (10,661 acres) area that was licensed as a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) by the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA). The work meeting was chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry and Trade Prof Joseph Buchweishaija, other permanent secretaries from key ministries were represented, the Morogoro regional authority and the EPZA. “There is no more room for bureaucratic procedures that have delayed the project for almost three years. Everyone should take active part to ensure the project takeoff in December,” said Prof Buchweishaija who was flanked by his Deputy Permanent Secretary Ludovick Nduhiye and the EPZA Director General Col (rtd) Joseph Simbakalia. He directed the Morogoro Municipal Councils to work within three weeks deadline to complete the survey of the 10,661 acres of land as well as the issuance of the title deed to be followed by the adjustment of the land’s master plan. At the meeting, other government officials from various institutions including Morogoro Urban Water and Sewerage Authority (MORUWASA), Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), Tanzania Rural and Urban Roads Agency (TARURA) to come up with their plan for putting infrastructures at the Star City Development area during the next meeting early November. Briefing on the status of the Star City Development Project, the EPZA Director General Mr Simbakalia said land is the basic resource for investment thus the delay in issuing title deed has hindered the realisation of the project. The Star City Special Economic Zone sponsors are Dominion Plantation Limited (DPL) owned by Tanzanians with 51 per cent share and Hyflux Limited from Singapore 49 per cent share. He said the EPZA is a government arm that participate actively, advise, facilitate and leaven investment in the industrial sector. The ongoing construction of the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) which is passing through the Star City development project will connect the Dry port designated on 500 acres. Mr Simbakalia said the establishment of an inland dry port at the project will have far reaching benefits namely generating revenue, decongesting the Dar port as most of the transit cargo to be handled, reduce traffic jam in the Morogoro road. He cited the Morogoro based Mazava Fabrics Produce as one of the success stories that was supposed to be located at the Star City Special Economic Zone but failed due to the delays in the issuance of title deed. Mazava Fabrics Produce licenced by EPZA is part of the Winds Group and deals with sports and corporate wear manufacturing for the US market. Furthermore, there are other three factories that could have been established at the Star City Special Economic Zone and discussion with other investors to establish their investments at the zone has reached advanced stage. The Star City Infrastructure Development Limited General Manager Mr Annath Bhat said they have been receiving requests from various investors to establish factories at the Star City Special Economic Zone but the delay in issuing the title deed hindered the flow of investment. “We ask the government to speed up the processes of issuing the title deed in order that the project may kickstart and attract investment flow in the area,” he said.