TANZANIA national U-20 boys are keen to write a new chapter when they face Kenya in the CECAFA U-20 championship final in Uganda today. The epic match to be staged at FUFA Technical Centre, Njeru in Jinja will also decide who deserve the newly introduced U-20 football supremacy in East Africa. The final match of the neighbours is expected to be breathtaking and mouthwatering as the teams drew 2-2 when they met in their group B stage. Both sides which have yet to lose a match since the tournament kicked off, hence making the game to be tough in both physical and skill showdown. Speaking about the game Tanzania U-20 team coach Zuberi Katwila, guided the team to the final with an outstanding performance, said his side is focused and ready for today’s final against Kenya and looking to post positive result. “From the group stages to the final, we faced tough challengers. We are set and focused for our final match against Kenya. Kenyans are our brothers and it will be a friendly fire,” he said. Katwila said both sides know each other well as they met in the group stage , so they know their opponents strength and weak points, which they are going to utilize so as to earn positive results. Apart from that Katwila said that the good thing is that they have worked on their team’s weakness so as to avoid mistake which have appeared in their previous games. However, coach Katwila, doubts the fitness of Ally Msengi and Frank Kahole if they will be part of the team that faces Kenya since they are still nursing injuries. But the remaining players, according to him, are fit and wellfocused for the game. He cautioned that his players need to concentrate more on the defence and marking their opponents. On his part Kenya coach, Stanley Okumbi disclosed that he expects a great final as all the teams have been showcasing their abilities and have used a lot of energy. He added that Kenya and Tanzania were the best teams right from the start and deserved to play in the final. “Tanzania have good players having scored 17 goals in the champions and we are prepared for them nonetheless,” he disclosed. However, Okumbi unveiled that three of his players need late check-ups after picking up knocks ahead of today’s final. In additional he commended CECAFA for a good job of organizing a good championship. The day’s menu has two matches lined up. Sudan faces Eritrea in the early kick off at 1 PM to determine the third and fourth placed teams. Sudan lost 2-1 to Tanzania in the semifinal match at the Pece War Stadium, Gulu. Eritrea lost by a similar margin during the other semi-final clash to Tanzania at the FUFA Technical Centre, Njeru. This championship funded by Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) which kicked off yesterday will be completed on October 5th .