TANZANIA Geological Society (TGS) has asked geologists to undertake small scale mining industries or establish junior exploration companies to take advantage of the slow rate of new gold discoveries. Statistics indicate that Tanzania’s Gold Production data reached an all-time high of 52,276 kilogrammes in 2005 but dropped to 45,115 kilogrammes in 2016. TGS Vice-President Dr Joas Kabete described junior mining companies as key stakeholders in driving investments in mineral exploration. He was however quick to ask the government to put in place a funding system to empower local geologists to tap the mineral resources. Dr Kabete was speaking during an interview with the ‘Daily News’ over the weekend on the society’s 50th anniversary. “Let’s make a slow rate of discoveries as an opportunity. Declining of green filed exploration should create opportunities to geologists. They have to use mineral deposits information available in the government and map those places with mineral potentials and do survey,” he encouraged. He added: “Tanzania still have more areas that we (geologists) can discover gold. We ask the government to invest in us so that we can contribute to socio-economic development.” The expert further commended the government for successfully monitoring, auditing and collecting revenues from the large scale mining industry through improved linkages between the Mining Commission and Tanzania Revenues Authority (TRA). “Marketing and sale techniques and data also have significantly improved, with the introduction of gold buying centres like Geita,” he said. After many years of success and failure attempts to implement initiatives of establishing the centres, Tanzania started trading centres to curb gold smuggling and provide artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) with formal market. “We have seen some financial regulatory system being put in place to not only protect smuggling but also monitor and administer revenues from the ASM industry,” the expert explained. The mining centres facilitate the ASM’s access to different markets to sell their products and they also have reduced number of scammers (fake gold).