AS Group D visiting teams expected to jet in Dar es Salaam today ready for the inaugural Basketball Africa League (BAL) Malawi’s Brave Hearts have pulled out of the competition. Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) president Phares Magesa told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam that preparation has been finalised for the event to take place at Don Bosco Oysterbay courts in the city. Dar es Salaam has been given an honour to host the Group D qualifying competition that starts today and winds up on October 20th this year. Magesa said that everything is going on well for the league organised by FIBA Africa in collaboration with National Basketball America (NBA) to start as planned. Group D battle comprises hosts Champions JKT, Patriot (Rwanda), Hawassa (Ethiopia), City Oilers (Uganda), Brave Hearts (Malawi), and Dynamo (Burundi) and the team are vying for two slots. Magesa said that Brave Hearts is only team that has pulled out of the competition so far. We expect other teams to be in Dar es Salaam by tomorrow for the battle. The BAL tournament which has replaced the former African Club Championship, is eligible for men’s teams only. The president stressed that clubs from 48 African countries will battle it out in the preliminaries stage which consists six groups with two teams to sail through to the second round. He said the teams that sail through will form two groups with best of three qualifying for the BAL 2020 final battle. Six teams from second round will join other six from Africa’s well developed countries in basketball such as Senegal, Nigeria, Egypt, Angola, Tunisia and Morocco to form 12 teams that will be pooled into two groups and battle it out for the league’s top honour. Meanwhile, Magesa said that about 30 participants have attended FIBA basketball technical course for Coaches Level 1 which was officially opened in Kibaha, Coast Region yesterday. Magesa said that the course was opened by Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) vice chairman Henry Tandau and conducted by FIBA instructor Sam Wanjuhi. Magesa thanked TOC for sponsoring the course through Olympic Solidarity funds and urged participants to take the course seriously for the betterment of the game. “The course to be run until October 26th , is very important as we gear up to promote and develop the game all over the country. I would like to advise all participants to use effectively the knowledge they get during the course,” he said