FACEBOOK (FB) is the darling social media platform in East African Community (EAC) where Burundi leads if per cent be anything to go by. The StatCounter, a web traffic analysis website findings showed that in EAC apart from Burundi, the fb was losing its grip to other social media especially Pinterest, YouTube and Twitter. According to StatCounter findings for a year ending last month, fb Burundi led the five EAC countries with 90.5 per cent of its population using the platform while Rwanda was second with 74.37 per cent— above Africa average of 69.84per cent. During the year under review, Kenya was the third with 60.28 per cent, Uganda 57.4 per cent and the last on list was Tanzania with 45.27 per cent of its population used FB. South Sudan was not StatCounterlist. Dr Hildebrand Shayo,an economist cum banker, said two main reasons makes FB to bea leading social media not only in EAC but also globally. “Facebook is appealing to certain age group. Like in other part of the world is preferred by those between 12 and 18 years old. “Secondly, compared to other application is all down to its accessibility and easy to use interface,” Dr Shayo, who works for TIB Development Bank, said. The Dublin, Ireland based Stat- Counter statistics are directly derived from hits—as opposed to unique visitors—from 3.0 million sites, which use StatCounter, resulting in total hits of more than 15 billion per month. StatCounter data showed that in Burundi the social media usage maintained its position, while in Rwanda lost grip to other platforms— Pinterest, twitter and You- Tube. In Kenya fb showed a climbing at decreasing rate and in Uganda is fluctuating at decreasing trend while in Tanzania lost its stance fast to other platforms. In all EAC countries, in Uganda and Tanzania the gap between FB and other platforms was not wide unlike others members states. Burundi 90.5 per cent for fb while the immediately rival Pinterest stood at 5.89 per cent and Rwanda 74.37 per cent compared to 13 per cent for Pinterest. Tigo Tanzania Corporate Communications Manager, Shisael Woinde said apart from FB cool features, Tanzania’s mobile penetration has made it easier for users to access various social media platform. “Tigo innovation working with Facebook on Swahili FB made it easier for majority to use FB in the language easier for Tanzanians thus breaking the language barrier,” Ms Woinde said. According to Hoot suite Digital 2019 Tanzania research the internet users’ penetration has reached 38 per cent equal to 23 million people in January. The report also shows that 4.9 million are active social media users presenting a penetration of 8.2 per cent. Burundi apart from being the only country in EAC to depend heavily on FB, its internet penetration per population is the lowest in the region at 5.3 per cent against 11.57million people, according to Internet World Stats report at end of last year. Kenya, according to the report, led EAC for internet penetration of 83per cent out of 52million people. Uganda was the second in the bloc with 42 per cent out of population of 45.7 million people. Tanzania was third at 38 per cent and Rwanda fourth at almost 30 per cent against 13 million people and South Sudan with a penetration of 16.8 per cent out of 13.5million population.