APPLICATION of new mobile geographical information system technologies (GIS) in the 2022 census geography and usage of Survey 123 during the Population and Hosing Census (PHC) 2022 will ensure the country has quality, accurate and timely data. National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) Director-General, Dr Albina Chuwa, said the use of new technologies in the PHC 2022 would not only facilitate census, but also increase efficiency. She was speaking in Kondoa yesterday during her tour to access the progress of the ongoing census geography as part of preparations for the PHC 2022. “Our target is to conduct the next population census more efficiently. I am here to oversee demarcations and evaluate the quality of work done,” Dr Chuwa told Ward Executive Officer Samson Mtui in Kondoa Urban District at his office where she went to introduce herself. During the visit Dr Chuwa witnessed how GIS experts and cartographers prepared enumeration areas (EAs) at Mnarani in Kondoa Urban District Council using new mobile GIS technologies. She also explained how geo-spacial information was captured and stored in tablets. NBS Head of GIS Unit Benedict Mugambi said with such technologies, enumeration areas work would be conducted in a more accurate and precise manner as software installed in tablets would contain all necessary information to guide enumerators and restrict one from working beyond designated EAs. Mr Mugambi noted that there was no margin of error in the new tech as a collector for ArcGIS software was installed in the tablet to allow all spatial data collected and stored in the server. “Geo-fencing will guide the enumerator not to go beyond designated areas. The gadget will alert enumerator and a set of questionnaire will automatically be disabled.” The statistician general said using such technologies would reduce the number of people who were in some way missed during census enumeration. She said during the PHC 2012 under coverage was 5 per cent although she said the per cent was lower than many other African countries where some recorded double-digit under coverage. For example, since postdemocratic South Africa, the country’s censuses have not recorded single-digit undercount. “We want to do away with 5 per cent under coverage recorded in the census 2012 and have perfect census returns which will appropriately guide our policies and programmes,” Dr Chuwa emphasised.