MORE than 250 legal experts and other stakeholders are expected to attend the fiftyeighth annual session of the Asian-African Legal consultative Organization (AALCO) to be held from tomorrow to Friday October in Dar es Salaam. The meeting will discuss various international legal issues, including legal challenges facing member states and looking at how best to address those challenges in order to have a world of peace, security and stability for economic, political and social development. The Minister of Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Dr Augustine Mahiga, said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the meeting will be attended by ministers, attorneys general, representatives from various international organizations, ambassadors representing their countries in the country, and other senior government officials from 48 member countries of Asia and Africa. Over years, Tanzania and other AALCO member states have organized the annual meeting to exchange views, experiences and information on matters of common concern having legal implications and to make recommendations thereto if deemed necessary. They also consider and deliberate on issues related to international law that may be referred to the Organization by the member states and to make such recommendations to governments. "The conference is held in rotation in Asian and African continents in a single member state. This is the third time for Tanzania to host it. This demonstrates how well Tanzania values and appreciates the important work of this organization," he said. During the summit, Tanzania will have the opportunity to present a range of topics, including international legal challenges in trade and investment, international network issues, conflict resolution and other issues. "Through this conference, Tanzania will have the opportunity to share experiences from other countries on international legal issues. It will also be an opportunity to advertise itself internationally in tourism, investment and trade sectors," Dr Mahiga explained. For his part, the Secretary General of AALCO, Prof Kennedy Jastorn, said that Tanzania had became a member of AALCO in 1973 under the leadership of Founding President Julius Nyerere.