STAKEHOLDERS in the health sector will convene in Dar es Salaam for three days to deliberate on pertinent issues revolving around improving the future of Tanzania’s health supply chain. Chief of party with the Global Health Supply Chain Programme Mavere Tukai said while briefing journalists in Dar es Salaam at the weekend that the Tanzania Health Supply Chain Summit (HSCS) would be held from October 15-17, this year. He pointed out that the broad agenda at the summit would be to share experience of global trends taking into account technological advancement in the health sector. “Based on how important data is used in the implementation of the health supply chain, the theme for this year’s summit is “The future of Tanzania Health Supply Chain Performance: Driven by data and innovation”. Innovative solutions are not developed in isolation. That is why the Tanzania HSCS was formed to foster collaboration towards progress on the country’s most pressing supply chain challenges,” said Mr Mavere. Thus, the summit is envisioned as a hub for stakeholders to learn, engage and innovate. By sharing and replicating best practices, public and private sector entities are empowered to strengthen their delivery of health commodities and improve the lives of Tanzanians. HSCS Secretariat for Capacity Building and Data Use Team Leader Peace Nyankonjo noted that this year’s summit is built on the success of last year’s meeting which brought together 200 participants for a two-day programme. Ms Nyankonjo said about 300 participants from the public and private sectors, including government officials, academics and supply chain implementing partners, donors, health inventors and in-country logisticians would come together for the important gathering. According to her, the programme will also feature capacity building sessions covering some of the most critical topics in Tanzania’s health supply chain today. Strategic Planning Adviser with the HSCS Secretariat Michael Kishiwa noted that the entire supply chain system was in the end measured in the delivery of services to end users. Among the issues to be looked at include ways which can best leverage the immense power of high-quality data and spur innovative approaches to strengthen performance across each segment of the supply chain.