A 50th minute Abdulaziz Makame header gave Young Africans their first victory of the season following a 1-0 hard earned win over Coastal Union at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Veteran player Mrisho Ngasa orchestrated the goal’s move with his corner kick inserted inside the visitor’s penalty box where Yanga defender Ali Ali provided a header pass which was expertly connected home by Makame. The ball hit the cross bar before going inside in a very tricky circumstances for the referee to make accurate judgement since the lines man flag was up, but the goal stood to the relief of the hosts. Makame scored his first Vodacom Premier League (VPL) goal ever since joining the Jangwani Street based side this season and somehow, it looked like a consolation after he scored into his own net during the CAF Champions League second leg battle versus Zambia’s Zesco United in Ndola last month. As the match progressed, Coastal Union were never disappointed as they continued to push for more men upfront hoping to get the equalizer and avoid the defeat. Yesterday’s victory has placed Yanga at the 12th place with four points and have since scored four goals and conceding the same number of goals, while the Tanga based lads are now placed on 15th slot. It was an open attacking football with each side making threatening moves towards each other’s territory, but most of their attempts could not really bring the tangible results to separate the two teams until the end of the first half. The hosts looked a better side in most of the tense 90 minutes as, in most occasions, especially in the final minutes of the first half, camped inside Coastal Union territory aiming in a hunt for goals, but nothing positive was recorded. Both David Molinga and Feisal Salum had moments to put their team one goal up in the 36th and 44th minutes, but their efforts went off target. The second half time started strongly for the both sides , Coastal Union had one shot on target while Yanga could not register any shot on the target despite pressing hard for the goal. At restart, Yanga continued to hunt an opener and an opportunity to grab their first wins of the season, eventually came in the 50th minute. Another good chance for Yanga came in the 68th minute courtesy of Ngasa who had a one to one scenario with Coastal Union goalkeeper, but the latter eased himself to make a daring save. With one goal up, Yanga made first substitution in the 70th minute calling to bench a seemingly injured Deus Kaseke for Jafar Mohamed and later, Kelvin Yondani limped off the pitch for Mustafa Seleman in the 79th minute. Man of the moment Molinga (Falcao) had a goal disallowed in the 81st minute for offside offence and denied a chance to net his third goal of the campaign. For Coastal Union, they were awarded an indirect free-kick in the injury time inside Yanga’s penalty box, a nice chance to pull level, but the ball was cleared to safety by the host’s defenders.