I can categorically say that not all men are evil. Also, there is cause for hope, because this isn’t a biologically innate behavior of men against women. In fact, it’s quite the opposite. Violence against women is something that is deeply cultural. Men who choose to use violence against women have hypermasculine attitudes about their rights as men and the role and rights of women. Women are often targets of domestic violence because of their unequal status in society, which is supported by cultural mores and a patriarchal social system in Tanzania. Men are too often encouraged to see their partners and children as their ‘possessions’ and to believe that if violence erupts, it is women who are to blame. You may think I am exaggerating, because it’s undeniable that the status of women in has improved. However, it also true that women remain a vulnerable and marginalized group within Tanzanian society and high gender inequality still exists. Tanzania has a very low gender inequality index and ranks 119 out of the 148 countries for whom data exists. Action is being taken. The Tanzania Government signed and ratified The Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) on Jul 17, 1980; an international treaty adopted in 1979 by the United Nations General Assembly. Part IV (Article 15 and 16) confirms women's right to equality in marriage and family life along with the right to equality before the law. On the 8th September 1997, the Tanzania Government signed the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Protocol on Gender and Development. It’s Addendum on the Prevention and Eradication of Violence against Women and Children was signed in 1998. Part H (ix) of the Addendum is very explicit, it draws attention to the SADC member states’ responsibility to take urgent measures to prevent and deal with increasing levels of violence against women and children. It is on this basis that Tanzania developed the National Action Plan for the Prevention and Eradication of Violence Against Women and Children in 2001. The National Plan of Action was a commendable commitment that had the best of intentions to minimize the problem. However, it’s my view that the timeframe for implementation has lapsed (2001-2015). More now needs to be done and the time has come to revisit the Plan to assess what has been achieved and for the community to have opportunity to provide feedback. One evident weakness of the Plan is that, unfortunately, the voice of religious leaders was omitted. Religious leaders in Tanzanian society have tremendous moral and spiritual influence and this grants them unique and unparalleled potential to be powerful agents for prevention, education, and advocacy. As religious highly respected figures in our communities, religious leaders are uniquely equipped to lead activism and prevention efforts to end domestic violence against women. Indeed, they hold the power to break the deafening silence about violence against women and to put an end this unnecessary suffering for once and for all. As a Public Health Consultant, I regard it as my role to bring the pervasive nature of violence against women to the renewed attention of government and communities. It is high time that society responded to this horrific violation of female dignity with compassion and with a fierce commitment to defend the intrinsic value of all humanity, regardless of gender. I believe that violence prevention efforts among men will work-if they’re done well! A sound understanding the magnitude of the problem will prompt men to become involved and to become part of the solution rather than the problem. We need men’s involvement in violence prevention to be at the forefront of the public agenda; Receiving endorsement across the whole of government machinery. As a nation, as a matter of urgency, we must invest and allocate adequate resources in early intervention and education, frontline services, emergency accommodation, and in legal services; all of which are essential to protect women against domestic violence. In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, it is imperative for the Government to put the prevention of violence against women back at the top of the national agenda. All sections of government and community must work together to effectively challenge the attitudes and behaviors that allow violence to occur. We must stand together and proclaim a resounding “no” to violence against women in Tanzania. The perpetrators of domestic violence crimes must be held to account and those who persist must be subject to additional penalties, including the loss of entitlements to hold administrative, political, or community leadership positions. The overwhelming message that underpins this article is that, while living free from violence is everyone’s right, reducing domestic violence against women is every individual mans’ responsibility. Every man, whomever he may be and whatever position he may have in society, must play his part to find and to role model other ways of resolving issues than by perpetrating violence against women. Now is the time for zero tolerance. As a nation, we need to remember that it is not just women who are paying an enormous price for this cultural prejudice, rather, we all suffer when women and girls are abused and their needs are neglected. If we fail to end this stain on our society, we will all be the poorer for it.