THE Geita Gold Mines Ltd (GGM) in collaboration with the Geita Town Council will undertake the construction of 1.5km tarmac road worth 1bn/- implementing the directive of President John Magufuli when he toured the area earlier this year. President Magufuli made the directive shortly after he laid the foundation stone of the Siro Police Barracks asking for the road to be constructed connecting Geita- Mwanza main road. During the ground-breaking ceremony that took place in Geita over the weekend, GGM Managing Director Richard Jordinson and the Geita Regional Commissioner Eng Robert Gabriel said the new tarmac road will help to transform communities and simplify businesses. Apart from the road project, they too launched the Katundu Central Market, which has the capacity to accommodate over 500 traders thanks to GGM that dished out 1bn/- through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme for the cause. According to him, the projects were also meant to ensure that mining activities lead to sustained economic development that benefits the people in the region and in Tanzania as a whole. The MD expressed commitment that the Company will continue to remain the most complaint and top taxpayer in the country saying since it started operations in the country in 2000, over 2.5 Tril/- has been paid as tax to the government. “The company has employed over 5,000 individuals both directly and through contracts of which 96 per cent are Tanzanian nationals. In 2018 alone, over 76 per cent of total procurement was spent locally within Tanzania,” he said. GGM had a comprehensive programme of direct investment in the local Geita community through a series of projects including water supply, education, health and economic development activities in the agriculture, construction and service sectors that saw over 57bn/- being spent on community projects in the last 10 years. Commenting on the development particularly newly launched central market, RC Gabriel said the facility with over 200 stalls was set to accommodate the businessmen who are ready to utilise it for their own economic gain and that of the government.