THREE officials with Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU) are among the latest people facing economic sabotage and money laundering charges who have applied for presidential amnesty. Acting Kagera Regional State Attorney, Ms Chema Maswi, named one of the three officials who were facing Economic Case No 4/2018 as the former KCU Board Chairman, John Binunshu (83). Other co-accused with Binunshu are former KCU General Manager, Vedasto Ngaiza (76), and former Acting Chief Accountant, Ms Bestina Rwebangira (60). She told the 'Sunday News' in an interview in Bukoba yesterday that the officials had already paid about 104m/- and had written a letter to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), showing their intention to confess to the crimes and be forgiven. Maswi alleged before Bukoba Resident Magistrate incharge, Mr Paul Kapokolo when the accused were arraigned for the first time on August 29, last year that on different dates during 2011, the three accused persons, being employed by the Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU), willfully occasioned a pecuniary loss to the Union amounting to 124m/-. Other offenses facing them include misuse of public office, forgery, misuse of their positions and conspiracy to commit a felony. Judge Lilian Mashaka from the Economic Crimes Control Court set bail conditions, that each accused should deposit cash amounting to 20.6m/- or deposit a title deed of immovable property of the same amount, which should be certified by a government valuer. She said the accused should also have two reliable sureties who should sign a bond of 5m/- and should surrender their passports/travel documents. They are also not allowed to travel outside Kagera region without leave by the Bukoba Resident Magistrate’s Court. President John Magufuli received a list of 467 economic sabotage suspects who have opted to plead guilty to their charges and repay over 107bn/- for release from remand prison. While receiving details of the pardon at the State House in Dar es Salaam, President Magufuli extended the deadline by seven more days to allow other accused who could have failed to meet the initial deadline. The accused have up to October 7, 2019 to submit their confessions in hand writing to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Dr. Magufuli had on September 22, 2019, while swearing in various leaders whom he had appointed, advised the DPP to consider dropping charges facing economic crime suspects through legal channels should the defendants confess their crimes and repay the loss involved. But, he warned that after expiry of the new deadline, there will be no mercy for economic sabotage criminals, ordering the chief prosecutor to press hard on their charges in courts.