SPECIAL Olympics Tanzania (SO-T) said they are highly impressed with the level of training sessions done by pupils from 25 primary schools which are implementing the Play Unified, Learn Unified initiative. Backed by Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF), the main objective of the project is to promote inclusive culture between intellectually challenged persons and their normal counterparts. Tanzania is the second country in Africa after Kenya to run the same project which has been timed for three years and SO-T already identified five primary schools from five regions of Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Tanga, Mtwara and Morogoro to benefit from the project. Briefing the ‘Daily News’ yesterday, SNF project coordinator Kelvin Mwise said in all the selected schools, pupils are actively taking part in training sessions as they get ready for competitions with other schools early next month. “As soon as the exercise of distributing sports gears completed, training programs started instantly and the level of participation by pupils has been impressive in all the chosen schools,” he said. Also, in his words, one of the Play Unified, Learn Unified coaches from Mwakidila Primary School in Tanga, Tyson Mhanga disclosed that from the way they play, it is hard to recognise that some of the pupils are intellectual retarded. “If you really want to see the power of inclusion, sports is the main weapon because they show high level of cooperation while on the ground and as coaches, this good gesture make us to work hard,” Mhanga said. About challenges, Mhanga pointed out that some pupils are having problems to play volleyball because it is new to them hence find it difficult to do rotation. He also said they are receiving good cooperation from parents and guardians of the intellectual retarded people saying most of them are happy to see their children taking part in various sports disciplines. Two sports events which are football and volleyball are the ones be played in the selected 25 primary schools.