HEAD Coach for the National Under-20 team Zuberi Katwila said commitment and discipline were the basic ingredients which enabled his side to reach into the CECAFA U-20 Championship finals. Tanzania date Kenya in the epic finale of the unfolding competition set this weekend in Uganda after a deservedly 2-1 win over Sudan in the thrilling last four match played on Wednesday. On the other hand, Kenya thrashed Eritrea 1-0 to cruise into the final slot and consequently face their neighbours in a match already described as tough to both sides. To reach this far, Katwila’s charges produced a late dramatic show against hosts Uganda to win 4-2 in the quarter finals clash which was played at a waterlogged Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu. But speaking after the tense match, Katwila said he was totally impressed with the high level commitment and discipline by the players. “To us, it was not an easy game at all but the most important thing is that we have made it into the last phase of the contest and we aim to take the title home,” he said. He added that all the games his side were subjected to were tough on top of the rainy weather which made the pitch slippery but hailed his players for resisting that unfavorable conditions to excel on the battlefield. However, the coach conceded that his opponents (Sudan) were good in aerial balls due to their height a situation he said was a challenge to his defenders and midfielders. “I told them to play with composure, use low balls and avoid committing unnecessary fouls something we succeeded to a large extent,” said him. Moreover, Katwila disclosed that his boys were a bit tired as they had only two days to prepare for the semi-final battle but hailed them all for the good job well executed. Commenting on their CECAFA U-20 final opponents Kenya, Katwila said he has seen them playing on several occasions hence he is expecting a great match from them. “We have only one game to go before the champion emerges as such, it will be an encounter which can go either way. We have to do our homework well so that after the normal period of play, the victory should be ours,” said Katwila. Kelvin John netted the winner against Sudan is leading the top scorers’ board with seven goals. His team mate Andrew Albert Simchimba has netted six going to the final this weekend. John’s goal helped Tanzania U-20 national side progress to the final following a 2-1 victory over Sudan at Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu yesterday. Meanwhile, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has urged the national U-20 side players to stay focused on their CECAFA U-20 final match against Kenya to be staged in Gulu this Saturday. The call was made yesterday by TFF president, Wallace Karia after the team eliminated Sudan in a semifinal match to book a ticket to play in the tournament’s final stage. Karia who commended Heroes’ outstanding performance in the tournament, reminded players that they need to continue focusing on the tournament as they have completed the job they had started well since the their group stage campaign. “Our boys need to stay focused so as that they can finish the job they started,” he said. However Karia has cautioned that the final game against Kenya’s Rising Stars will be difficult that’s why he reminded the players on staying focused and be ready for a tough encounter.