PRESIDENT John Magufuli’s administration is committed to taking all appropriate steps to ensure women empowerment and securing the future of girls in the country, Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Prof Palamagamba Kabudi said. Addressing delegates during the 74th anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, he said Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were not new concepts in the country, but had been promoted for 41 years after being engineered by the Founding Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. “In 1943, when Mwalimu was a first year student at Makerere University he wrote an essay, ‘Women Are Eagles Not Chickens’. The essay was about women’s rights especially gender equality,” Prof Kabudi noted. “He also wrote about socialism and rural development,” he explained, calling on members of the public to revisit Mwalimu’s speech as the nation on the 20th Mwalimu’s death anniversary. With the world population recording over 7 billion people, at least 3.7 billion people are women and girls. This large group, which contributes significantly to the economy, is still struggling due to historical and cultural factors to attain their socioeconomic and political rights. At the ceremony, which began with a parade of honour from the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDC) and hoisting the UN’s flag, the minister noted that President Magufuli’s administration had taken the steps he believed would empower women and secure the future of girls. Prof Kabudi said the government was prioritising investment in projects that focused on the empowerment of women and the girl child. “The President has set some goals and he is implementing them. He decided free education to ensure girls, who were left at home due to lack of school fees, got education,” he said. “Today, the number of girls enrolled in schools has increased.” According to reports (2017) on primary education, the level of enrolment of schoolchildren has reached 96.9 per cent. More than 70 per cent of primary school leavers join secondary education. “In 2018/19 out of the registered 1,278,816 pupils, 50 per cent were girls,” he detailed. The outspoken minister said the government had been also investing considerably in healthcare to ensure Tanzanians accessed better health services. “The government has constructed 65 district hospitals and had invested in large-scale water projects to improve access to safe and clean drinking water.” Delivering her speech, UNFPA Country Representative Jacqueline Mahon said violence against women in the country was still relatively high with cases reported on UNsupported regions reaching over 20,000 in 2017 and 2018 alone. She said in Tanzania women formed more than 50 per cent of the population and made a significant contribution to the country’s economy, but the group remained insecure and held fewer positions in decision-making posts. “We need to promote gender equality and development ...women can!” she stressed, adding that it was important that girls had access to quality education. The United Nations officially came into existence on October 24, 1945. In 1948, the United Nations General Assembly declared October 24 the anniversary of the Charter of the United Nations. UN Day has traditionally been marked throughout the world with meetings, discussions and exhibits about the achievements and goals of the organisation.