FORMER Prime Minister, Mizengo Pinda has urged Small and Medium Enterprises (SME’s) women groups to work together in order to grow their businesses to the next level. Mr Pinda said this at the first SME’s women cooperative awareness meeting held in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. Population statistics show that the number of women is increasing day to day and most of them engaging in various economic activities like catering activities and small scale food vendors. “Group of women in the country is very huge compared to men and are engaging in the production of food and others in small scale businesses. Thus I encourage you to work together in order to achieve your plans,” he said. Mr Pinda who is also ambassador of women initiatives groups in Tanzania and also Patron of Global Standards in Tanzania (GS1 Tanzania), encouraged more than 800 women from all parts of the country to execute new established business strategy approach dubbed ‘MADIRISHA YA BIASHARA’ which will require all women entrepreneurs groups to work together as a cooperative. Mr Pinda praised the new business approach and it will bring hope in the future where women can establish own business board or council and not operate as a cluster of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF). However, chairperson for Tanzanians women entrepreneurial group and board member of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation and) Ms Fatma Kange said that, women groups will do four major duties after the awareness meeting to others in the country. Ms Fatma Kange who is also Chief Executive Officer of the GS1 Tanzania started said first and foremost assignment is offer education to all women then formulate business groups or 'madirisha ya biashara' and also invest to those businesses and encourage every to attain plan goals, added CEO Fatma Kange. This first SME’s women cooperative awareness meeting organised by Global Standard, Tanzania Branch (GS1-Tanzania) in collaboration with Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) and sponsored by CRDB Bank, NBC Bank and private organisation called Private Agricultural Sector Sponsorship (PASS) and attended by more than 800 women in Tanzania.