FOR many years Tanzanians have been singing the same song. That the main enemies of our development are three; Ignorance, Illness and Poverty. We have been singing this song since independence in 1961, but we continued to sing this song even after ten years of independence, and especially when we decided to launch the Arusha Declaration, which was encouraging independence. In the face of the recession, and to make the lives of Tanzanians better, there have been various decisions and resolutions to fight against these enemies. Largely as a nation, we have succeeded in eliminating ignorance, even in the sense of increasing literacy, an increase in the performance of primary, secondary and collegiate students, but even in increasing numbers of schools and colleges. We have also succeeded in vigorously confronting the enemy and as a nation, Tanzania can now cater to its citizens to treat even previously unsolved diseases. Although there is always an increase in new ailments, there is also an increase in medical professionals, a multitude of health facilities and hospitals, as well as adequate medical supplies. Yet, poverty has been described as the only major enemy remaining in our nation. And poverty is slow to leave because it has entered every sector. Poverty is like a bug that has attacked every part of the human body. Poverty lies in education itself, health, agriculture, business, industry, tourism, the environment, herding, fishing and elsewhere. But it is also not true that no effort has been made to reduce or eliminate poverty altogether. In some areas, the standard of living for its citizens has changed dramatically because some people have decided to fight poverty. In our country, poverty has been greatly reduced, but there are some areas where we can say poverty is gone. For example, in places where there were no reliable roads when our country gained independence, now there are always access roads. Roads have been a great help to the people in doing their jobs. If they are farmers, they can now farm without fear knowing that their produce is guaranteed to gain market share, because of the certainty of infrastructure. The same applies to businesses and other service providers. But reliable electricity, which has spread rapidly to many areas in the country, is also one of the factors that has helped to reduce poverty. Also, reliable access to clean and safe water has greatly helped to alleviate poverty for many people, since they used to find water. The time that was lost in pursuit of such services as schools, hospitals, water, electricity and others, is now being used to generate more assets. The Central Government has made great efforts to provide its citizens with various services that were previously available far and wide. But there are also stakeholders who have been instrumental in providing such services. Some of the Stakeholders have volunteered to build Health Centers, Schools, Hospitals, Water Fountains, civil servants’ houses, Roads and other social services. Unfortunately these stakeholders who are dedicated to supporting poverty reduction efforts are mostly undocumented, and if they are publicized, they are advertised at a very low level. But there are also people who are not currently aware of the benefits of our natural resources in the areas where they live. We know that in many rural areas it is said that there is great poverty. But we also know that there has been a concerted effort to alleviate poverty. This is where most of the nation’s resources are located, and the citizens who live close to those resources want to see how much they have benefited from being close to those resources. For example, citizens who live inareas where there are mines, national parks, large factories or tourist attractions that generate large amounts of foreign currency, and benefit from the existence of such investments. Some public organizations have been instrumental in changing the lives of citizens who are their neighbors in the areas where they provide services or do business. But there are other stakeholders, including private companies that have been supporting the government’s efforts to eliminate poverty. Recently a team of Journalists forming the Media Centre Against Poverty (MeCAP) made a visit to the Tanga region to see how the private sector has a role in supporting government efforts in poverty alleviation. One of the major stakeholders supporting the effort is Neelkath Lime Limited which, according to its director, Mr Rashid Hamoud Liemba has been involved in various development activities in the Tanga Region. Mr Liemba told reporters on the tour that his limestone factory, among other things, had provided employment to many citizens of Tanga and neighboring regions as well. He says that more than 60 per cent of the residents who live near the factory are benefiting from employment, but there are also commercial opportunities that have come from such investments. “Not only employment in the sense of the workers employed by the factory, but there is also a business opportunity where women have been cooking and selling food to workers, and some have joined groups and made loans for their business,” he said. Ward Executive Officer of the Kiomoni Ward, Mr Adam Harrison Chinyuka said the company’s investments are of great benefit to the nation. He told reporters that the company is committed to building a primary school called Kiomoni, but also providing lunch service to the school’s students. The executive added: “Mr Liemba has also created one Computer Learning class, but has also purchased more than ten Computer for students ”. “But also in our Ward, Neelkath Company has been providing assistance in treating bony patients for a long time,” said the Ward Executive Officer. Another witness of the company’s investment and its benefits to the community, is the Ward Councilor, Salum Hamza Mashi, who said the Neelkath company has been educating children whose parents are unable to pay school fees. But the Councilor also acknowledges that the Director of the Neel Company is a major environmental consultant and has contributed to the cultivation of more than five thousand trees in saving the county’s environment. He said that the Director had assisted in the construction of a 2.7 kilometer road from Utofu Kiomi to Mafuriko at the level of gravel, but also assisted with access to clean and safe water for the Hormone people by draining the well. Mzizima ward councilor Iddi Gombella said the company has been actively supporting the government’s efforts to eliminate poverty in the county. “In my ward there are some patients who have been treated with the help of the company, but she has also liberated mother nutrition in our ward,” he said. Mr Liemba has told reporters that what he is doing is in response to the call of the President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Dr John Magufuli in restoring benefits to the people, as a national strategy to reduce the severity of life. “There are many plans. For example we are in the process of building a school in Mzima Ward, doing repairs to the Police Station in the county, but also building a wall in the Kiomoni and Mzizima secondary schools, and many other things to the community ”he said. He said, however, that the government still plays a key role in poverty alleviation, but that the private sector should support such efforts.