TIGO Tanzania’s mobile financial services business-- Tigo Pesa, in partnership with Umoja Switch (BCX) yesterday launched the new ATMs cash out services to provide a more reliable and convenient money solutions to its customers. The partnership between the two entities marks an important step in fostering financial inclusion in the country as Tigo Pesa, Tigo mobile money service, is now providing ATM cash withdrawals. Speaking during the launch ceremony, Tigo’s Acting Chief officer, Mobile Financial Services, Angelica Pesha said the new service is in line with the company’s strategy of providing its customers with quality and digitalised financial services to ensure superior customer experience in the market. “We are excited to launch this new mobile banking solution that will give our customers more control of their money since it is an easy and secure way of accessing money through Umoja Switch ATMs that are available across the country,” noted Pesha Pesha added that the service will further bank to wallet and wallet to bank penetration while diversifying the use of the Tigo Pesa as a full-fledged financial service provider which is more convenient to its customers. “It is our hope that this new service will foster our goal to extend our footprint to our customers across every corner of the country and contribute to the financial inclusion agenda. Through this partnership Tigo is increasing its customer touch points to Umoja Switch ATMs and by so doing allowing Tigo Pesa customers to withdraw money conveniently from their Tigo Pesa wallets at UmojaSwitch ATMs. This complements more than 100,000 existing Tigo Pesa agents across the country.” said Pesha. With this new partnership, Tigo’s customers will now be able to access the cash-out services through more than 350 Umoja ATMs that are available across the country something that increases customer convenience, grows ecosystem and facilitates transactions. Commenting about the partnership, The Umoja Switch Company Ltd Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Danford Mbilinyi said, “the cooperation will enhance advancement of the financial sector while making services more available to people of all levels from both urban and rural areas. “We strongly appreciate this cooperation between Tigo and Umoja Switch in giving our customers freedom to access their money any time and hence save time and costs since our ATMs are available in many areas of the country,” said Mr Mbilinyi.