TANZANIA is determined to aggressively market domestically manufactured larvicides in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states to intensify the fight against Malaria in the regional bloc The larvicide is an insecticide that is specifically targeted against the larval life stage of an insect. Their most common use is against mosquitoes. Kibaha District based Tanzania Biotech Products Limited is the biggest biotech product manufacturer in Africa. The larvicide marketing is one of the agenda items that Tanzania will carry to the SADC sectoral meeting on health and HIV in Dar es Salaam starting next Monday. Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu (pictured) said in the city yesterday that the government will take advantage of the imminent joint meeting of SADC ministers responsible for health and HIV and AIDS next week to convince member countries to buy the insecticides. Ms Mwalimu told reporters that Tanzania is capable of distributing the larvicides to all SADC member states to protect people in the region from the disease “One of the items of the agenda that we carry to this meeting is convincing SADC ministers to consider buying this agent for killing mosquito larvae…we believe that the fight against malaria is not just to sleep in the mosquito net. We (Tanzania) have capacity to bring positive change in this fight against the disease,” Ms Mwalimu argued. Participants to the SADC ministerial meeting will have an opportunity to visit the plant in Kibaha where the SADC Malaria Day will also be commemorated under the theme: ‘Zero Malaria starts with me,’ emphasising on individual efforts to combat the deadly disease. Over 200 delegates from SADC member states are expected in the meeting, which is part of a series of ministeriallevel gatherings in Tanzania after President John Magufuli assumed chairmanship of the regional bloc in August, this year. Speaking over Tanzania’s efforts to eliminate Malaria, Minister Mwalimu said the country has made great strides, reducing malaria prevalence from 14.7 per cent in 2015 to seven this year. She attributed the achievements to various measures, including prevention, treatment and public awareness. Other issues that the meeting will dwell on are malnutrition, which most of the members states still struggle to meet global target of less than 30 per cent prevalence rate. Seychelles performs well at this. The ministers will also discuss challenges and ways forward on problems related to reproductive and child health, focusing on maternal deaths. Director of Prevention at the Health Ministry Dr Leonard Subi said production capacity of Tanzania Biotech Products Limited stands at six million litres, annually, sufficient to distribute to all member countries. During the last fiscal year, the government purchased 96,000 litres at 13,000/- each and distributed them to the district councils in the campaign to spray the biolarvicides to kill mosquito larvae. “The quality of our larvicide is good and kills the larvae by between 95 and 100 per cent,” explained Dr Subi. National Malaria Control Programme (NMCP) Deputy Manager Dr Samwel Lazaro said Tanzania managed to reduce Malaria related deaths by 63 per cent, from 6,737 deaths in 2015 to 2,540 last year. Dr Lazaro said the fight against the disease among pregnant women was impressive, with statistics showing that an uptake of the second dose of the intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp) has increased to 86 per cent this year from last year’s.