TOURISTS from different parts of the world were on Friday excited to view wildebeest migration crossing Mara River in Serengeti National Park (Senapa). Tour guides did everything possible to time the animals crossing the river at Kogatende during morning hours. The area was full of tourist vehicles with tour guides driving towards to a perfect location that could enable their guests to view the wildebeest crossing the river. “This is a wonderful experience and we are so excited to be here and because of the technology I can even take pictures and share with my daughters for them to appreciate this beautiful country,” Ms Susan Miller from California told ‘Daily News’ after witnessing the wildebeest crossing the river. “We have seen a variety of wildlife beyond what we expected. We witness babies and an incredible huge population in their natural habitat. This is treasure,” she added. Ms Miller is one of the American tourists who witnessed the wildebeest crossing the river on Friday morning. “This is a trip of life time. It is really wonderful and we are very lucky to see the wildebeest crossing the river,” another US tourist said. Local tour guides said the wildebeest migration attracted many tourists visiting the world’s famous national park. “Serengeti is huge with a variety of animals, but without seeing the crossing of the river one will feel that he has not visited this wonderful national park. The crossing attracts me as a tour guide and visitors,” Mr Charles George, a local tour guide from Sense of Africa Tanzania (SOA), said. For her part, Tanzania National Parks (Tanapa) Corporate Communication Senior Conservation Officer Catherine Mbena said the wildebeest began crossing the river in August this year. “These are visitors from other parts of the world. I would like to invite Tanzanians to come and witness this fantastic crossing of wildebeest,” Ms Catherine noted. Besides, the wildebeest migration, Serengeti is blessed with a variety of other beautiful animals, including giraffes, lions, leopards, elephants, buffalos, zebras just to mention a few. In June this year Serengeti was voted Africa’s best park on the African continent for 2019 by World Travel Awards (WTA). The country’s second largest national park defeated other famous parks in African countries during a WTA award gala held in Mauritius. WTA voters involved holiday makers and travel and tourism professionals.