ASIAN-AFRICAN Legal Consultative Organisation’s (AALCO) 58th session that sat in Dar es Salaam recently has come up with seven issues to advocate at the UN for improved trades, blue economies and conflict resolutions. Over 45 AALCO member states agreed on the items of agenda, enabling the meeting to end with four instead of the initially planned five days. AALCO members, in one of their consensuses, resolved to address arbitrary sanctions on some countries, subjecting innocent citizens to unnecessary sufferings. Constitution and Legal Affairs Minister Dr Augustine Mahiga whom members elected AALCO President during the session, briefing reporters in Dar es Salaam Thursday, said under international laws, it’s only the UN Security Council, which has powers to impose sanctions but subject to security threat. Dr Mahiga argued that it was wrong for individual countries to impose sanctions. “We have unanimously decided to closely work on this matter. Tanzania is concerned with the sanctions on Zimbabwe, with the ordinary citizens being the hardest hit because the country can’t trade,” Dr Mahiga argued. The minister added that the organisation also discussed and agreed that there was a huge marine wealth like fuel, mines andfishes to enable countries benefit from the blue economy if proper legal systems are in place. “We should have legal agreements so that we exploit these marine resources without conflicts,” he said. Oceans, as one of major means of transport, also require improved international laws, the meeting resolved. According to Dr Mahiga, the meeting expressed concern over the review of international laws governing cross-border trade and investments. “There are some trade agreements that are inefficient, we need to review them for the benefits of all countries,” he stated. AALCO Secretary General Professor Kennedy Gastorn said the organisation will present the security- related agenda to the imminent UN meeting on security issues next week. He explained that AALCO has several times been speaking about international law infringement regarding sanction on Palestine, adding that the organisation will further push for improvements in international cyber laws because the issue of cyber security involves many countries. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Constitution and Legal Affairs Professor Sifuni Mchome said in every discussed agenda, Tanzania gave its position. Opening the meeting on Monday, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan appealed to developing countries to stand firm in protecting their interests by fair legal mechanisms and international law. “We need to strive to ensure that there are well established regional and global institutions that are founded on fairness and respect for national sovereignty to protect our respective national interests,” she stated.