TANZANIA this week had the honour of hosting a major conference which discussed the importance for African countries in investing in science and technology and striving at all costs to promote innovations in the changed global economic environment. The three-day 4th AfricaLICS (African Research network on Economics of Learning, Innovation and Competence Building Systems) international conference, which brought together eminent scholars and researchers, discussed the theme of “Innovation and Transformative capacities for growth and sustainable development in Africa.” The meeting, an event of its kind to be held in the Tanzanian soil for the first time, dwelt at length on the new direction in innovation studies and policy models which present serious challenges for Africa and other poor countries of the world – more than they do for the rich nations. In this supersonic age which sees rapid scientific and technological advances, Africa needs education that promotes innovation and which empowers the continent’s youth to think critically. Tanzania, which aspires for an industrial revolution, must depart from the type of education that trains youth to memorise and learn to reproduce. This natural resource-rich country needs people who are able to think independently; people who dare to question the validity of principles and concepts. Tanzania must set its priorities if it is to remain afloat in the changed global economic arrangement. In the early days of independence, the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, stated it clearly that while others are walking, we in Tanzania must run fast if we want to avoid being swept aside by the tide of cataclysmic changes taking place in the world. Indeed, social and economic development in the current environment of free market and globalisation depends on how competitive we are as a nation. Today competitiveness does not depend on the traditional factors of production, but on the efficiency with which firms and nations use existing knowledge, and on the speed with which they produce and put in use new knowledge to ever dynamically innovate. This is of critical importance to Tanzania as the country embarks on structural transformation towards strengthening capabilities for adding value to its abundant natural resources and thereby achieve sustained growth and generate adequate and decent employment for its people.