LIKE a wounded bull, Young Africans are eager to shrug off their CAF Champions League nightmare when they host Polisi Tanzania in the Mainland Premier League match at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam today. Also to face the same wrath are Coastal Union who will play Yanga on Saturday, Yanga at the same venue in what will be their third league encounter. Both matches are placing an opportunity for Yanga to collect six points in just three days. It will be the first time ever for Yanga to face Polisi Tanzania in a VPL match despite meeting them in the friendly tie at Ushirika ground in Moshi where the Dar es Salaam-based side lost 2-0. However, this time around, things are different since three points are to be fought for throughout the hot match such that the team which will wake up from the good side of the bed will likely bag them all. From two matches, the Moshi based club have bagged three points after winning one match and losing the other 1-0 to Ruvu Shooting. Both teams (Yanga and Polisi Tanzania), are the victims of 1-0 defeat imposed on them by Ruvu Shooting. For the hosts, they surely need to win this match to get back on the track and be among the season’s title contenders mainly after a back foot start of the season following an embarrassing 1-0 loss to Ruvu Shooting. The results have seen them unmoved at the base of the 20-team table without a single point from one match played meaning that a win today is a must for them as far as staying on course is concerned. On the other hand, debutants Polisi Tanzania are not a side to be underrated bearing in mind that the team’s Head Coach Seleman Matola has been troubling Yanga with his former club Lipuli FC. “Generally, I know that it will be a tough match against a team which has quality players and are getting better day by day,” Matola said in an interview after a training session at the National Stadium yesterday. He added that the fact that they won against Yanga in friendly tie should not make them relaxed but he insisted that they have had good preparations such hence just waiting the final results after normal pe riod of play. Meanwhile, the leadership of the Jangwani street club already revealed that the full squad was expected back home from Zambia by Tuesday and that they will instantly go in camp ahead of today’s battle. “We want to urge our fans across the country to come in big numbers to support the team so that we register good results and be on the right track as far as chasing the premiership title is concerned,” said the club’s Vice-Chairman, Frederick Mwakalebela recently in the city