CONFLICT of interest has now become a problem in many quarters globally, and in fact, it is believed by many that in the conflict of interest equation today, private gain equals public loss. This is not only an African problem per se and requires a global governance concern. The familiar and much known historical approach to the problem is that while in some countries attention was paid a while ago, in others, it is only in recent years, making us witness an increased consciousness and attention to the challenges of conflict of interest and the threats they pose to humanity. For example in the United Kingdom, during the early 1990s there was a clear mounting disquiet about the lobbying activities of many Members of Parliament. This led to the appointment of the Nolan Commission to look into crucial issues of conflict of interest, whose major worry was that the House of Commons was fast becoming a market place and obviously causing national discomfort. Likewise, the UK experience would remind many of the situations across the Atlantic with the Watergate scandal in America taking root in some sort of conflict of interest and antagonisms within the power elite leading to Richard Nixon resigning the presidency on August 9, 1974 despite being pardoned by President Gerald Ford. Well, I am writing on conflict of interest, that situation which arises from a situation in which government officials have private interests sufficient to appear to clash or defeat the objective exercise of their official duties. However, there is a need for clarification. Besides financial or economic interests, public officials can have other private interests that may conflict with their public duties and the public interest that are political, cultural, religious, social, familial, legal, emotional and ideological. And as we see it today, these can be disastrous making it a major matter of public concern. In our modern day times when to a problem compromises the quality of service delivery in the respective public services, and governments are increasingly expected to ensure that public officials do not allow their private interests and affiliations to compromise official decisionmaking and public management, one would wish that there shall be no leaders who pursues their selfish interests and diverting our funds to their to personal accounts abroad. But encouragingly enough, in the verge of conflict of interest growing worse, leading to a wave of public outrage and a new political resolve in many parts of the world, there seem to be a good development. This development is emerging uniquely when the spirit is tremendously mounting among citizens as they expect individual public officials to perform their duties with integrity, in a fair and unbiased way. It is good to know that even in our country, concerns over conflict of interest are being taken care of. Gladly so, the current ongoing secretariat staff training determinations, by the Tanzania’s Ethics Commission, one of the strategic institutions that were established essentially to facilitate democratization and good governance in the country, by and large deserves commendation. Who knows, these training programmes might in the end add value to the current staff practical skills which is crucial in recognising conflict of interest problems, and enable them to help civil servants apply sound decision- making procedure in a process of ethical reasoning, which cannot be separated to President John Magufuli’s leadership desire to make Tanzania become industrialized in a shortest possible time. And this is vital because the secretariat staff capacity, currently being built in Morogoro under the able leadership of Ethics Commissioner Hon Justice (retired) Harold Nsekela, the leader of the body mandated to oversee the political conduct of public leaders. The training is appropriate and timely for it is hoped that staff from all zones across Tanzania will in turn go back to train fellow staff and public officials to develop an understanding of the relevant general principles and specific rules, and to help them improve in decision-making skills for practical application which would always be conscious in avoiding conflict of interest. We still have a long way to go though. Let us cherish a swift and advanced response among some leaders in developed countries which whenever allegations of conflicting interests arise, the leader being accused or even before anything happens would be happy to resign from the post, disclosure interests and at times stand aside from all decision making processes. But, on the other hand, especially in Africa, I think we have to pull up our socks. This I say because, unfortunately, in our continent, and in my country in particular, whenever similar allegations of conflicting interests arise, whoever is being accused never seems to have a problem justifying or rationalizing the activity that gave rise to the allegation. This is not good news. This is a clear evidence that we are yet to develop an open national culture where dealing with conflict of interest matters can be freely raised and discussed. This can be dangerous to our national building efforts. So far, it is good to hear that Tanzania is now coming up as powerful nation which has now confidently developed great resilience, ideas and levels of tolerance regarding corruption. We wish the same spirit will be developed on the challenge of conflict of interest, because the two are inseparable. This we can achieve on the basis of the level of current development, political will, sound economic system, and ethical and rich cultural values in the country. So well done ethics secretariat! Please keep helping in building a public service which will serve the public interest, maintain and strengthen the public’s trust and ensure citizens’ confidence in public institutions. We, as a nation would like to see transparency and accountability as our leaders use powers and resources for the public good. We want a nation which is able to protect its integrity by our leaders making decisions and act without consideration of any private interests - for public service is a public trust. We want legitimacy as our leaders exercise power and authority impartially and without fear or favour. We want a nation identified by fairness where our leaders make official decisions and take action in a fair and equitable manner, without being affected by bias or personal prejudice, taking into account only the merits of the matter, and respecting the rights of affected citizens. We want responsiveness so that we experience the joy of efficiency and effectiveness in our leaders and not corruption nor conflict of interest. Cheers! ● The author, Dr Alfred Sebahene, is Ag. Head of Department of Corruption Studies, Lecturer, Researcher, and Social Issues Analyst at St John’s University of Tanzania, Dodoma. Email address: arsebahene2@ yahoo.co.uk alfredsebahene@gmail.com Mobile: 0767 233 997