IN a bid to improve and strengthen Kiswahili in Africa, Tanzania has proposed that the language becomes an official language within the International Conference on the Great Lakes Regions (ICGLR). ICGLR is an intergovernmental organisation of African countries in the Great Lakes Region composed of a number of countries, including Tanzania, Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda and Uganda. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Dr Damas Ndumbaro presented the proposal before the (ICGLR) foreign affairs ministers meeting held in Brazzaville yesterday. He informed the foreign ministers that Kiswahili was already an official language in Tanzania, Kenya and Rwanda and was also one of the official languages of the East African Community (EAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). The deputy minister called upon members of the Great Lakes regions to adopt and agree to use Kiswahili as a language within ICGLR. “We have requested our colleague (ICGLR) to adopt Kiswahili as an official language within the Great Lakes regions, although sixcountries have not endorsed changes of African Charter to allow Kiswahili to be used as an official language in the African Union (AU),” Dr Ndumbaro said. According to Dr Ndumbaro, the use of Kiswahili language in the region is an opportunity that would enhance national unity within the Great Lakes region. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Ndumbaro, cited the six countries which have not yet endorsed changes of African Charter to allow Kiswahili to be used as the official language as Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, Uganda and Zambia. In the same vein, Dr Ndumbaro added that member states discussed peace, stability and security, especially in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). He also explained that majority of the member states commended the DRC for the successful and transparent elections that led to a peaceful transition and commended the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Uganda and Rwanda, and urged the two countries to fully implement its provisions, towards restoring the historically strong relations between them. Speaking earlier during the opening ceremony of the Foreign Affairs Ministers official meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Congo, Mr Clement Mouamba, said he was happy as the meeting focused on assisting the DRC in the challenges it faces, especially in the eastern region. “I congratulate you on the work you have been doing in collaboration with various stakeholders in ensuring that the Ebola epidemic is eradicated, as I believe that together we can,” the premier said.