FOLLOWING the 2019/20 Total CAF Champions League group stage and the 2019/20 Total CAF Confederation Cup Playoff official draw, CAFOnline.com caught with some representatives of the participating clubs. Frederic Kitenge (Sporting Director, TP Mazembe) Our only target is the title. We know Zesco and Primeiro de Agosto very well as we met them before. If Zamalek qualified we also know them well, and last time we met in Egypt we emerged victorious. The only team that we know nothing about is Generation Foot and in case they qualify we will study them well. It’s a tough group, as is the case in all other groups. Ahmed Mortada (Board Member, Zamalek) In football there are no big or small teams. All the groups look tough. We respect all clubs and there is no easy team in the Champions League. We have no problem with the match against Generation Foot, and I’m positive we will overturn the first leg defeat and reach the group stage. Our experience will play the decisive role. Sayed Abdel Hafiz (Football Director, Al Ahly) All the groups are tough as all the 16 teams are strong and deserve to be here. We know Etoile and Hilal very well as we met them many times before. Platinum is also a good team and they had good games last season in the group stage. I believe our group is balanced and every team has their chance. We have suitable time to study our opponents and prepare well for the group stage. Our target is as always nothing but the title itself. Hassan Issa (General Secretary, Al Hilal) Our group is very tough. But who wants the title fears no one and we are ready to face any team. We respect all our opponents, and will do our best to represent Sudan’s football in the best possible way. Al Ahly and Etoile are great teams and we are ready to welcome them in Sudan. Platinum is an emerging force and this makes it even more tough. But we believe in our chances. Hamoud Bouazza (General Secretary, Etoile du Sahel) It’s a tough group. Al Hilal is a strong opponent especially at home, same goes for Platinum. Al Ahly history is known to everyone in the continent. Our previous encounters with Al Ahly are from the past, they defeated us in the final and we did the same with them. We both know everything about each other and we are ready to face any team. Mohamed Talal (Spokesman, Wydad) Facing Mamelodi Sundowns has become a classic game of the CAF Champions League, we need no draw to face them! Wydad is a great club and we are ready to face any team. All the 16 teams are very strong and each one of them has got their chance to qualify. We will have our word this year. Peter N’dlovu (Team Manager, Mamelodi Sundowns) We want to go as far as possible in the Champions League. Wydad is our regular old foes, we met like 4 or 5 times in the recent seasons. We respect them but on the pitch we fear no one. I hope our new recruits mix well in the team as we have high hopes this season. Abdul Aziz Abdul Shafy (Sporting Director, Pyramids) We respect Young Africans much, they are a team with great history. In Africa now there are no small or big teams. We take our campaign game by game and want to reach as far as possible in our debut season. Yasser Salem (Football Director, Al Masry) We don’t look to the past. Facing Cote d’Or is not an easy mission. Football is only about what you do on the pitch, not the past results. We cannot afford to underrate any team, whatever happened before.