TANZANIA has improved to 7th position in most advanced financial market in Africa from 15th last year, Absa Financial Markets Index shows. The financial market index for 2019 shows Tanzania scored 55 out of a possible 100 points up from 44 points last year noting the country has strong investment environment but market were still small and illiquid. The new report has revealed that Africa’s financial markets are improving in quality and depth, albeit that many problems remain if they are to become truly competitive with each other. Nine countries including Tanzania have performed above average, showing that progress is becoming more evenly distributed across the index. Others are South Africa, Mauritius, Kenya, Namibia, Botswana, Nigeria, Zambia and Rwanda. The report graded the countries on six pillars: market depth; access to foreign exchange; market transparency, tax and regulatory environment; capacity of local investors; macroeconomic opportunity; and legality and enforceability of standard financial markets master agreements. Tanzania is ranked 17th in the market depth pillar with a score of 34 out of possible 100 points. Market depth pillar examines size, liquidity and diversity of products in markets, as well as countries’ efforts to merge exchanges and launch new markets. The index ranked Tanzania in the 9th position in the access to foreign exchange pillar scoring 60 points out of possible 100. The pillar looks at factors that impact markets’ accessibility to international investors, including the severity of capital controls, exchange rate reporting standards and levels of foreign exchange liquidity. It ranked in eight position in the market transparency, tax and regulatory environment pillar which assesses countries’ regulatory and tax environments for financial markets, as well as transparency and enforcement of accounting rules. Tanzania scored 74 points out of possible 100 in this particular pillar. The index ranked Tanzania 10th in the capacity of local investors pillar with 22 points out of possible 100. Capacity of local investors pillar examines the size of local investors, assessing the level of local demand against supply of assets available in each market.