CHINA has joined the chorus of member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and academics urging Western powers to lift sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe unconditionally. The joint call came during a special convocation held at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) titled ‘Economic Sanctions And The Fate of Development in Africa’ when ministers, members of the diplomatic corps, academia and other dignitaries raised the voices against the plight facing Zimbabweans. Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke, said that her giant nation supports Tanzania, Zimbabwe and all SADC members to appeal for a quick lifting of the sanctions. “We think that the unilateral sanctions on Zimbabwe have no basis of international law, and lacks the legitimacy and rationality,” she told the gathering at the country’s oldest and prestigious university. As she relayed the message from Beijing which was released by China’s spokesperson from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Wang asserted, “On behalf of the Chinese Government, we want to join Tanzania, and other SADC member states to show our solidarity with Zimbabwe.” Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba Kabudi, who graced the opening of the event, said Tanzania as the current SADC chair was taking various diplomatic measures to ensure sanctions on Zimbabwe are lifted. He said having the SADC heads of State and government agreed in the Summit held in August in Dar es Salaam to speak with one voice on Zimbabwe, every platform will be used to address the problem. He said Tanzania as the current SADC chair has started making efforts to address Zimbabwe’s problem, including holding talks with the African Union (AU). Other platforms that will be used include international and regional meetings and local meetings, Prof Kabudi noted. “These sanctions do not have any base from the international laws which are within the UN conventions. We will continue holding talks with the AU and also table the matter to the Non-Aligned Movement and other places,” he stressed. He said nations harbouring imperialist feelings are not happy when they see some developing countries taking some measures that may lead them towards being self-reliant. He said such nations would like to see African countries begging from them so that they can continue advancing their imperialist interests. “In Tanzania, we have started steps towards self-reliance; we should also realise that we’re at war. Y ou have already started witnessing such sabotage, beginning with influencing people to believe falsely; and worse enough such poison is implanted into our youth,” the minister warned. Dr Philip Mpango, the Finance and Planning Minister, stressed that Africans should understand that their destiny is in their own hands. “The problem is that we do not have economic freedom, dependent mentality and aids are still weighing us down; we must fight against them,” he explained. He urged Africa to respect the rule of law and economic systems for economic management without abandoning the reality of its nations. He warned, “Never should we abide to those trying to influence us, endangering our freedom to self-governing and reliance.” He noted that it is important to understand that obstacles change as time goes, and it is important to use the opportunity of shifting of the economic power to create protection against obstacles placed to African nations. “We are fighting for Zimbabwe so that they can be economically free. Africans are economically poor and we have to fight as this is not only for Zimbabwe but for our entire continent so that we move to a higher level,” Zambia’s High Commissioner to Tanzania Benson Chali said. According to the chairman of the governing board of the Fair Competition Commission (FCC), Prof Humphrey Moshi, there are things needed to be done by African nations to remove themselves from neocolonialism. Among them being to expand the scope of cooperation among the countries without inclining with any side. Africa as a whole and each individual country should have a precise development agenda and a stand. “We must forego the acts of copying things without understanding their origin and the level of the nation, we should be able to filter things and avoid issues that will take us away from our focus,” Prof Moshi declared. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Deputy Minister, Dr Damas Ndumbaro challenged that the Tanzanian President normally says that ‘we are rich and Africa is rich’; but to what extent is it agreed on by the professionals, and ministry of education in educating the community that indeed ‘we are rich’? “We should find a way to transform the resources we have to lift us from the economical level we are in now without depending on outside help.” He said that there are changes in the education systems that are highly needed in creating professionals that will transform resources to develop the nation and be self-reliant at the same time, he said. Former Prime Minister Judge Joseph Warioba stressed that “SADC’s stand should not end here; it should be dispersed as there is neo-colonialism. As for Zimbabwe, removing the sanctions alone is not enough; you should continue helping them and solve the issue of land. ”After this, it is relevant to investigate why as of recent it has become a habit to put sanctions before discussions. “It has become a strategy of forcing a country to adhere on the needs of a power country,” he emphasized. “It has reached a time where we must have a stand. The same way we fought for our freedom, we should also fight against neo-colonialism,” said Judge Warioba.