ABOUT 155 Netherlanders landed in Arusha over the weekend ready to raise funds for local children in Tanzania. The nationals, who are mostly supporters of Compassion Projects in Tanzania, earlier managed to raised nearly 2bn/- even before the current anticipated event dubbed ‘Muskathlon,’ that would take place in Arumeru in the course of this week. “We are excited to be in Arusha following the last two years’ positive reports from Tanzania about Compassion International’s work in the country that supports poor families, especially children,” said Wouter De Vos, one of the visitors upon landing at Kilimanjaro International Airport. He said that they would spend eight days in the country, where during the Muskathlon Week; they will get first-hand experience of Compassion’s mission and activities by physically visiting some of the projects as well as their beneficiaries’ homes. The climax of their visit will include sporting activities of cross-country races, bicycle cycling competitions and marathon races, all aimed at raising funds for the poor children in Tanzania. The events will be held in Arumeru District on Friday, where according to further reports from Compassion Office in Arusha, at least 1.8bn/- has so far been raised for the purpose. According to the visitors, children are usually the first and biggest victims of poverty, who hence require great assistance in line with Compassion vision and mission to make a difference for such marginalised and vulnerable people in the society. Reached for a comment, the Compassion International Tanzania Executive Director, Mary Lema said that so far they have managed to reach 100,000 families domestically in their 423 projects in the country. “There have been positive achievements for children from poor families to get opportunities to attend or stay in school, and enjoy medical care support, which often saves lives and also to provide them with nourishing food and clean water,” she added. The event coincided with Compassion International Tanzania, 20th Anniversary, as it extends mentor and champion for a safe environment, where children can achieve their dreams in the country. Locally, it works in cooperation with the local government officials and Evangelical Churches within a particular precinct in the nearby project(s). Since its establishment in 1999, it has managed to groom many children, who have grown to become responsible adults in the communities.