INNOCENT, brave and delightful kids Amina, Shufaa and Bakari (not their real names), all aged below five, never looked out of place. It was as if they belonged to this party--a forum which brought together child rights activists, law enforcers, magistrates and the press. The children were brought here to share the sad truth of the plight facing minors in Zanzibar. Theirs was a painful story of being sexually abused by a 17-year old boy. Their testimony was a heartbreaker, a real shocker to the audience. The children, told the gathering that their perpetrator (identified by single name Rashid), used to molest each one of them in turn. In their own words the assaulter would take them into a room and perform obscene sexual acts. The audience listened in disbelief as the kids narrated this disgusting story and some wiped tears slipping down their cheeks, they couldn’t keep them at bay hearing the terrifying ordeal the kids went through. You could sense a note of regret in their voices. Despite their tender age, they were aware that the molester took advantage of their helplessness to subject them to his evil acts. The tale of their abuse sounded horrific. It was undreamed of what these little children had been exposed to at this tender age–a cruel, ruthless world of sexual abuse. The case was reported at Bububu Police Station. Like many other incidents of that nature, which are mushrooming in Zanzibar, the suspect is still at large and the victims’ family blames the police for inactivity. Child sexual abuse is a form of child abuse that includes sexual activity with a minor. A child cannot consent to any form of sexual activity; Rather the offender takes advantage of a child’s vulnerability. Once considered a taboo, sexual abuse of minors is finding its roots on the Isles. The crime has become a thorn in the flesh for the Zanzibar society as authorities struggle to curb the vice. The story of the three kids is just the tip of the iceberg of a bigger problem--rampant sexual abuse, threatening the wellbeing of the Zanzibar society. Almost on everyday incidents of rape, defilement or molestation is reported across Zanzibar. The official figures are just staggering. Last year alone, 579 rape cases were reported, of which 533 involved young girls, according to statistics from the Ministry of Labour Empowerment, Elderly, Women and Children. 92 boys were defiled while 9 girls were sodomized. The Tanzania Media Women Association (TAMWA) Zanzibar, one of the leading non-governmental associations which advocates for child rights, also sheds light on the plight of children who are sexually abused on the Isles. According to TAMWA Zanzibar’s Policy and Advocacy Manager Ms Hawra Shamte, a survey conducted in West A, West B and Unguja Urban districts, over 80 girls were sexually. “TAMWA Zanzibar also gathered information on 75 cases of rape and defilement against women and children between January and September this year, in 57 cases, the victims were girls aged between 2 years-old to 17,” she revealed. “The perpetrators often pick young girls in cars from schools,” said Ms Shamte, insisting that concerted efforts from child rights defendants, the government (at all levels) and general are needed to curb the vice. The figures reflect the magnitude of the problem and show that there is increased transparency with more victims coming out and reporting sexual assaults. And it is largely due to sensitization campaigns by human rights organizations and civil societies for the cases to be reported so that perpetrators are brought to justice. But still only a fraction of child sexual abuse incidents are identified and even fewer are reported. Many abusers manipulate victims to stay quiet about the sexual abuse using different tactics. They often silence the victims by offering them gifts, coerce or intimidate them. Parents and guardians are increasingly concerned over the fate of their children. There is apparently no one to trust as sexual assaults against minors are mushrooming at a frightening rate. Evidences show that perpetrators of child sexual abuse are most often someone the victim knows, they are often trusted by the victim’s parents or guardians. The perpetrators look and act just like everyone else. They can be neighbors, friends, and family members. “You can hardly trust anyone nowadays; we’re growingly becoming worried about the safety of our children, we feel nervous every time they’re out of sight,” says the Deputy Minister for Labour, Empowerment, Elderly, Women and Children, Ms Shadya Mohamed. Member of the TAMWA Board, RukiaMuhammed, seconds the deputy minister’s sought as she expresses sadness on the rising incidents of child molestation. “A child we want to become an engineer is raped at the age of two, a child whom we expect to become a minister is molested, what do we expect? “Our societies have a responsibility to help children thrive. Children deserve a positive future: the chance to grow and learn in safety–free from the threat of sexual abuse,” the veteran activist says. In spite of the overall increase in reporting child molestation in recent years, the conviction rate has remained persistently low, with perpetrators largely going unpunished. For instance, out of 579 rape cases reported, only 149 cases were filed into the court of law, with only ten culprits convicted. 327 cases are still under investigation, 70 were dropped by police and 16 were dropped by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Office. There was only one conviction from the 92 defilement cases reported to police last year after only 16 cases were filed in court. 14 files were closed by police whole 4 cases were closed by the DPP, and investigation is going on for the remaining 56 cases. Out of 15 sodomy cases, of which nine involved children, only 4 cases were filed into court and no conviction so far, one suspect was let free, four cases were closed by police and six cases are still under investigation. Makame Mgeni Simshamba, a regional magistrate, blames ‘muhali’ a deep rooted practice whereby the victim’s family and the accused person collude to escape the arm of the law by settling the matter out of court. “Most often families settle sexual abuse cases at family level where both the perpetrator’s family and the abused child’s family members either force the abused child to marry the perpetrator if they two have matured,” he says. It is said that the victim’s family could also ask the perpetrator to pay a certain amount of money in order to settle the matter out of court, mostly for the sake of protecting the family image. “As prosecutor you need to prove beyond doubt that the accused committed the offense but you will find that the victim fail to testify in the court and makes it difficult for prosecutors to prosecuting these cases,” the magistrate says. While many accept that public failure to report child sexual abuse and reluctance to testify against the perpetrators undermine the fight against child molestation, some put the blame on police and the court for the unconvincing conviction rate. Ms Amina Yusuf questions police officers’ readiness to respond to and investigate sexual assault claims. She says her daughter is the victim of sexual abuse and despite reporting the incident to police and disclosing the identity of the perpetrator and his place, he’s yet to be arrested. “They told me to go and arrest the man and take him to the police station, how can I do that? What if he attacks me?” she laments. Experts say child sexual abuse isn’t always easy to spot and give a number of worrying signs that parents or guardians should not ignore. These include physical signs such as bleeding, bruises, or swelling in genital area, bloody, torn, or stained underclothes, difficulty walking or sitting, frequent urinary or yeast infections, pain, itching, or burning in genital area. There are also behavioral signs which include changes in hygiene, such as refusing to bathe or bathing excessively and phobias (anxiety disorder characterized by extreme and irrational fear of simple things or social situations).