PANAFRICAN Energy Tanzania Limited (PAET) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a Children’s Cancer NGO Tumaini La Maisha (TLM) to support the delivery of pediatric oncology services at Sokoine referral Hospital Lindi Region. The agreement was signed by Mr Andy Hanna, Managing Director of PAET and Gerald Mongella, Board Chairman, TLM in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, with both parties expressing their confidence in the newly signed MoU, which seeks to expand pediatric oncology services at regional level across Tanzania. This partnership will enable early diagnosis of children with certain cancers in remote regions in Tanzania, expanding on the NGO’s already exceptional work in Dar es Salaam, Mr Hana said. “We are proud to support this initiative that does so much for young lives here in Tanzania. The partnership will start with the establishment of a new site for treatment in Lindi. However, we hope this is just the beginning of a lasting relationship that will see this valuable service pushed out to other remote regions in the years ahead. The support will mean many more children will gain access to quality lifesaving pediatric oncology treatment services close to home,” said Mr Hanna. This PAET support to TLM in the delivery of pediatric oncology services is part of its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives and, together with the government of Tanzania and other health stakeholders, the company hopes to make a substantial contribution to increasing the survival rate of childhood cancer victims in Tanzania. Tumaini La Maisha is a Tanzanian based NGO dedicated to providing free and curative care for all children with cancer in Tanzania. Mr Hanna noted that PAET is a socially and environmentally responsible company working to ensure that the benefits of natural gas development flow not only to customers but also to the smaller communities surrounding their operational areas. With focus on Health and Education, the company has made and continues to make significant social investments in Tanzania, implementing innovative, effective and sustainable projects that deliver genuine and measurable benefits to Tanzania. Working in partnership with TPDC and the community for over 20 years, PanAfrican Energy is Tanzania’s largest natural gas producer, investing and developing natural gas.