HIGH Court of Tanzania Sumbawanga Zone has convicted and condemned to life sentence four Mamba villagers over chopping a right hand of Lime Luchoma. The victim is an albino and the assailants had planned to sell the chopped body part to a traditional doctor at 6m/-. The convicts are Alex Manyanza (28), Nogele Maliganya (44), Galila Nkuba alias Malago (48) and Shile Dalushi (31). The four convicts roasted the sliced fresh to easily take it to the traditional doctor. The court heard that the fifth accused, Maiko Samweli, died in remand prison and the court freed the sixth accused, Masunga Kashindye, for lack of concrete evidences against him. Judge Wilbroad Mashauri read the verdict at the trial session before Katavi Resident Magistrate’s Court in Mpanda Town, saying he was satisfied beyond reasonable doubts by the prosecution evidences. The prosecution, led by State Attorney Simon Peres and assisted by Dickson Elias Makoro summoned twelve witnesses who testified over the case beyond reasonable doubts. Justice Mashauri said the four convicts were found guilty of the crime under section 211 (a) of Penal Code, chapter 16 reviewed 2002. The defence was led by Elias Kifunda and assisted by Patrick Mwakyusa. Prosecuting, State Attorney Peres charged before the court that the four convicts committed the crime on May 14, 2015 at Kiganda village shortly after mid night. It was argued that on the material night, the convicts broke into the house of Luchoma and chopped off his right hand with intention to kill him. The assailants fled the incident scene in possession of the hand, which they intended to sell at 6m/- to the traditional doctor. Mr Peres pleaded with the court to pass harsh sentence to the convicts, describing the crime they had committed as barbaric and unacceptable to any civilised society. All four convicts prayed for lenient sentences, some saying have large families that entirely depend on them. Defence Attorney Kifunda prayed for the court to pass lenient sentences, including freeing Manyanza who remains young and has learnt the lesson as he felt remorse for the committed crime. Mr Kifunda also asked the court to free Nongele because he has children who depend on him and has spent four years in remand prison. Mr Mwakyusa begged the court to free Nkuba, saying he has nine children entirely depending on him and they are currently under the custodianship of their grandparents because their mother abandoned them after the father was remanded. Equally, Mr Mwakyusa asked the court to free Dalushi whose wife has died, leaving behind three children and he is the first offender.