FINALLY, Tanzania is set to start manufacturing motorcycles from next year, thanks to the efforts for the establishing of the industry ‘Wazalendo Industries Limited’ at Themi Hills industrial area in Arusha Region. A delegation of government officials who visited the newly established plant was told yesterday that the efforts are in line with the fifth government goals to build up an industrial economy. The company’s Executive Director, Mr Chun Zhang Yu said so far the new factory produces motorcycles accessories such as helmets, bumpers and spare parts, but they plan to expand the operations into full production. “We stand to support the government efforts in building and reviving industries and we appeal to the government to support local producers against imported goods,” he said. The company’s boss was addressing a delegation of experts from the Regional Commissioner’s Office led by the Regional Trade Officer, Franco Ildelfonce. “We ask the government to control imported goods, not all imports is necessary, we need to support local industries by protecting the market,” he noted. Mr Zhang Yu revealed that his factory was at the moment producing motorcycle spares and add-ons but the company was already working install assembling lines that will enable him to manufacture motorcycles. The Njiro based plant is currently making 12 types of motorcycle spares, riders helmets and other accessories and according to the factory officials, they are just waiting for the relevant permits to start producing actual bikes. He added that his company is still fulfilling some requirements in accordance to Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS). “We intend to source 80 percent of raw materials from Tanzania. Should the situation call for imports then it will be only by 20 percent or less,” he pointed out. The factory so far employs 12 permanent employers. Regional Trade Officer Franco Ildefonce said Arusha has managed to establish 301 factories between 2015 and 2019 and among those 13 large scale plants, 20 medium factories and 268 small industries with total value of 40 billion/-. In another development, Arusha region has set aside 212,228 acres for investments.