NMB bank, the largest lender in the country in terms of profitability capital base has reached 700bn/-, hence assuring its big customers of its efficient and safe services which measure to their financial demands. That was said on Thursday in Dar es Salaam by the bank’s Acting Chief of Wholesale Banking, Aziz Chacha, while opening NMB Executive Network that formed part of Customers Week. He said that was based on the bank’s financial stability being big enough to cater for big locally known as executive customers as well as anyone in any financial hierarchy in their financial matters. Mr Chacha further noted that being ‘executive customers’ who have big financial operations and demand, the bank saw the essence of inviting them in the forum to network, identify their challenges, and devise means to address them. On his part, NMB bank Executive Customers Relations Manager, Amour Muro said that NMB Executive Network is a forum that draws together big customers especially in the Customers Week to link up with others in business. “This is one of the important responsibilities we have this week…to talk and know areas to improve and add value in our services we render to them. Through this, we expand our scope to know how to add value out of what would be discussed,” he added. Mr Muro further said that NMB as a financial institution believes that meeting its customers, who hail from different sectors with various financial capabilities, shared forum to discuss challenges facing them as they seek bank services, require attention for both parties to improve in development. One of the customers, Magdalena Magali, and a representative of cement dealers from Tanzania Portland, hailed the bank for the forum saying it was the best place to address their problems and help them as individual, and institutions to grow. She also applauded the bank for inaugurating the digital electronic system banking that eases financial services in apparent reference to NMB Mkononi new product, safely guards Tanzanians money instead of forcing one physically to visit a branch. Commenting, Tanzania Telecommunications Corporation (TTCL), Planning Officer, Steven Gideon, said his agency also praised the bank for meeting them as corporates for a talk and devise ways to address their challenges as the country forges ahead.