FUMBA Satellite City in Zanzibar will be host to the 20th edition of the East African Community Jua Kali/ Nguvu Kazi Exhibitions at national level. According to the Minister for Labour, Empowerment, Elders, Women and Children, Ms Maudline Cyrus Castiko, the exhibition will run from November 16-24. Ahead of the regional exhibitions slated December, in Kigali, Rwanda, as a tradition each member state will be organizing similar exhibitions at national level as part of deliberate efforts to promote local entrepreneurship across the region. “The national organizing committee picked Zanzibar as the host of the national exhibition and the revolutionary government of Zanzibar opted to stage the exhibition at Fumba,” said Ms Castico. She said Fumba, located in the southwest of the Zanzibar Island, at the end of the Fumba Peninsula, overlooking Menai Bay, which is currently being developed into Satellite City, is an ideal place for event which is expected to draw over 250 participants. “Apart from local entrepreneurs, we expect to get participants from neighbouring East African countries. And we call upon participants to bring products produced by local entrepreneurs and not imported or those produced by major industries,” said the minister. The theme of the Exhibition is Buy Products by Tanzanian Entrepreneurs, which portrays the role local entrepreneurs in the growth of the country’s economy. She said the revolutionary government of Zanzibar under President Ali Mohamed Shein has taken various initiatives to promote and empower young entrepreneurs through Technology and Business Incubators (TBIs). “Therefore these exhibitions will be source for new markets, experience and quality enhancement for the entrepreneurs’ products,” Ms Castico said. The minister stressed the significance role the exhibitions will play in income generation, boosting family economies and fighting poverty at family and national level. EAC has been undertaking MSMEs development through African Jua Kali Nguvu Kazi Exhibitions which is an annual event organized and hosted on a rotational manner among the EAC member states to expose the products manufactured within the region.