BANKERS were on Saturday challenged to use their professional expertise with integrity for the advancement and success of the country’s banking sector. Bank of Tanzania (BoT) Deputy Governor, Administration and Internal Controls, Julian Banzi told Tanzania Institute of Bankers (TIOB) graduands to work hard to help the banking sector for speedy economic development. “You are well trained and therefore you should observe the ethics of the banking profession and undertake your tasks professionally to protect the integrity of the banking industry,” said Mr Banzi. He described the acquired knowledge and skills as the most important ingredients in strengthening not only the banking career but also the entire financial service industry. TIOB Executive Director Patrick Mususa said out of the 146 graduands, 111 qualified as Certified Professional Bankers (CPB) and 35 were awarded Banking Certificate. He said the institute whose mission is to promote the banking profession in the country through certification and training, remains committed to uphold the high status of the profession. Mr Mususa said the institute has completed a number of activities and established relevant partnerships, networks and alliances. “The institute is working closely with East African Institutes of Bankers of Kenya and Uganda,” he said. The cooperation between TIOB and the Alliance of African Institutes of Bankers (AAIOB) is another significant development during the past 20 years, said Mr Mususa. “The alliance has developed and adopted a common syllabus and since May 2011, all AAIOB members, including TIOB are offering examinations based on this syllabus,” he said. The alliance aims at promoting internationally accepted standards of knowledge, skills, competencies and conduct in banking industry across Africa. TIOB has in its 25 years of experience in the banking industry built a strong and growing membership base of over 8,000 individual and corporate members. It has as well, through its certification progammes—Banking Certificate and Certified Professional Banker Certificate—successfully trained over 800 individual professionals. Aspiring banking professionals are trained and later subjected to examinations to gauge their competence in critical banking issues—systems and financial services; financial management; financial and banking regulations; as well as various administration techniques in the banking operations. “We also train them in loan issuance and credit stability, analysis of financial accounts and management of international trade finance,” he said.