ALDIN Baduri spared Tanzania’s blushes to earn his side a lifeline against Kenya in a special football match organized for residents neighbouring the Tsavo-Mkomazi ecosystem. The diminutive striker tapped the ball into an empty net following Kenya goalie Adolph Ndau’s howler, to earn his side a crucial consolation goal ahead of the return leg in Mwakitau grounds, Mwatate town in Taita-Taveta County, Kenya in two weeks’ time. The thrilling encounter played at Kwakoa ward in Mwanga District kicked off on an exhilarating pace saw the Kenyan side made up grassroots level players drawn from Taveta and Mwatate laying siege on their opponents. The visitors looked the brighter side, largely enjoying lion’s share of possessions and managed to score in the 23rd minute through Elvis Ngure, following a good marauding run by the side’s left back, Moses Mbaya. Ngure, who was a thorn in Tanzania’s flesh throughout the match, would three minutes later unleash a ferocious shot only for Allan Mbatu to parry the ball on Kenya’s Oliver Lisariku’s path who earned his side the second goal. The visitors thought they had put the game to bed, but it was Tanzania who came more rejuvenated after the break, after introducing fresh pair of legs. Team Tanzania which featured players picked from Mwanga and Same Districts made two quick substitutions which worked in the favour. No sooner had Kenya enjoyed possession than the hosts retained it and launched a scathing counter attack and scored a crucial consolation goal through Baduri. The game organized by the African Wildlife Foundation (AWF), a leading international conservation organization focused exclusively on Africa’s wildlife and wild lands, aimed at creating awareness on protecting wild animals and the conservation of the 48,656 square kilometre ecosystem. AWF’s official Kenneth Kimitey described the special match as a nice and befitting gesture of the communities surrounding the Tsavo-Mkomazi ecosystem in bolstering protection of wildlife.