RUKWA Region Immigration Department has arrested for interrogation 10 Zambians, who are followers of Watch Tower Church for allegedly entering into the country illegally to celebrate Christmas Eve. Sources from inside Watch Tower Church said the faithful celebrated New Year each year on April 14 and Christmas on each October 1. Rukwa Regional Immigration Officer (RIO), Elizeus Mushongi confirmed to ‘Daily News’ in Kalambo District, while accompanying Home Affairs Minister, Kangi Lugola, who was in a four-day tour of Rukwa Region. According to RIO, the suspected illegal immigrants were arrested at Kitika in Kasanga Ward along the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District, Rukwa Region. He noted that they were held in Sumbawanga District for grilling and he would brief the media what followed. Watch Tower Church was established more than a decade ago by a Tanzanian, who was living in America. Its headquarters popularly known as “Vatican City” is located at Kitika area in Kasanga Ward. Its spiritual leader is popularly known as “Holy Father” or “Pontiff”, while its followers are popularly known as Watch Towerers. Watch Tower Church Spiritual Leader, Jonas Simulunga told this paper by phone interview that as a church tradition each year on October 1, the faithful from neighbouring Malawi and Zambia were gathering at Kitika to join their fellow Tanzanians to celebrate Christmas. “This year about 70 followers from Zambia arrived here at Kitika on September 30 to celebrate Christmas Eve ahead of Christmas on October 1. It was at that moment 10 followers from Zambia were arrested for allegedly entering into the country without having valid travelling documents. They are all adult men...they were taken to Sumbawanga Town for further interrogation,” added the spiritual leader. He further explained that despite the incident the religious celebrations were observed peacefully. “Church followers from within and outside the country are traditionally gathering here at Kitika twice each year-first on April 14 to celebrate New Year and on October 1 to celebrate Christmas.”