PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday issued a 30-day ultimatum to 30 district councils’ executive directors to relocate to their administrative confines or risk revocation of their appointments. He vowed to expunge any council whose director will defy the directive to move to where they were instructed to construct their offices, with the view of taking services closer to the people. “I have already instructed Sumbawanga District Council (DC) whose offices are in Sumbawanga town to move to Laela, some 95 kilometres from Sumbawanga town. The majority of the rural folks are in dire need of services, we have built health facilities in rural areas,” fumed the president, without naming the 30 councils on the transfer list. But, an inquiry by the ‘Daily News’ to the Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Selemani Jafo, established the councils as Arusha, Kondoa, Geita, Iringa, Mufindi, Bukoba, Mpanda, Kasulu and Kigoma. Others are Moshi, Lindi, Babati, Mbulu, Musoma, Bunda, Tarime, Mbeya, Kilombero, Mtwara, Masasi and Newala. The list further includes Njombe, Kibaha, Sumbawanga, Mbinga, Shinyanga, Bariadi, Singida, Nzega, Korogwe and Handeni DC Dr Magufuli issued the directive while addressing a public rally at Nelson Mandela Stadium in the municipally here, expressing gratification on the huge turn up. “I have never seen this kind of crowd since I started my working tour in Songwe last week, I have nothing to give back to you but I promise to honestly and keenly serve you,” President Magufuli promised. He was equally shocked by the high rate of teenage and school girl pregnancies, instructing the regional and all relevant government authorities to immediately work for the lasting solution. He said the latest reports show that 229 school girls were impregnated in one year, describing the situation as worrisome and unacceptable. Dr Magufuli directed the regional authorities across the country to take stern measures, including prosecutions of parents and guardians obstructing local community’s schemes to punish teenage impregnators. He said some dishonest parents in the region opt to hide their abused girls in protection of the suspects. The head of state decried settling of cases out of court, hiding suspects’ identities and frustrating police investigations, arrests and prosecutions. The president directed the regional governments across the country to institute stern measures against parents or community members colluding with the suspects or impede police investigations by not disclosing names and whereabouts of the suspects. Dr Magufuli charged that teenage pregnancies were rampant despite the government’s monthly injections of 23.3bn/- for fee free education scheme in the country. He also directed all petty traders to return to the once burnt down Nelson Mandela, promising to disburse between 200m/- and 300m/- for the market renovation, warning against any government leader harassing them. Dr Magufuli took the decision after Sumbawanga municipal council failed to rehabilitate the market for the past three years. Sumbawanga Municipal Mayor Justine Maliwasa told the president that the market was gutted in 2016 and the municipal authority had strategic plan to reconstruct it after securing 5bn/- from development partners. Earlier, President Magufuli inaugurated 35bn/- European Union and German funded water project, commending the development partners for their generosity that has made construction of the mega project possible. The project will boost water production and supply in Sumbawanga town from an average of 7,500 to 20,500 cubic metres, daily.