FARMING of goats has been pointed out as solution of ending poverty and promoting sustainable development amongst East African population. Tanzania and Kenyan researchers made the revelation at the just ended animal stakeholders’ scientific conference in Dodoma Last week. “Goats are easy to obtain and keep among the poor families, they supply milk, easy to butcher for family meet, its meat has got nutrients value for the household and was easy to sell for income generation to meet family needs,” said Dr Zabron Nziku, the Assistant Secretary of the Tanzania Society of Animal Production (TSAP). They said that goats rearing had a number of tangible benefits to the people’s health, economy and they are more climate change sustainable than other form of domestic animals. Dr Nziku said that this has prompted researchers in the country to undergo cross breeding to come up with more quality goats to improve grazer’s lives so that they can embark more productive grazing than traditional where some may opt between diary or meat goats keeping. He said, however, that Tanzania was estimated to be having around 20 million goats, of which 98 were indigenous while the rest was exotics mainly for dairy but yet were still environmental friendly for a big number may be kept at a relatively small area. “Goats are conservers of environment because they feed on clearing bushes and provide manure for agricultural production,” he said. For her side, the research Scientist from Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Organization (KALRO) Ruth Waineine said that in her country, both, dairy and indigenous goats were alike by the fact that they were easy to multiply, keep and generate income. “Goats gives birth up to three times in a period of two years, they are easy to slaughter for meat and when the owner decides to sell, it is more easy to get a customer,” she said. Kenya is estimated to have a total 28 million goats according to available statistics, 175,000 out of them were dairy milk. Tanzania’s Commission for science and Technology (COSTECH) was among the institutions which does not only mobilize financial resources for scientific researches aiming at coming up with more productive goats, but also connecting local farmers with researchers so as to improve their production. Rwanda aid is a nongovernmental organization which resorted to goats and other animals to the most vulnerable people and supporting them with training and veterinary services in Rwanda. It aimed at giving them the opportunity to improve their standard of living. “The manure can be used to improve the soil in their kitchen garden, boosting their harvest of vegetables. Some of the offspring of the animals can be sold to provide an income. The meat will vastly improve their protein-deficient diet. Instead of just existing they can plan for the future,” partly reads a report in Rwanda aid website.