PROCEDURAL irregularity has saved workshop manager with a cargo transportation company, Triple A Holdings Limited, Aliasgar Bhimji, from being hanged to death for allegedly killing a driver, Mr David Mwalolo, alias Kalangula, using a pistol for an unspecified mission. A panel comprising Justices Kipenka Mussa, Jacobs Mwambegele and Levira reached such a decision after nullifying all proceedings against Bhimji. Instead, the justices ordered fresh trial before another Judge and a new set of assessors after noting that there was a disquieting factor of the case pertaining to insufficient summing up notes to court assessors, who were appointed to assist the judge during the first hearing of the case. They pointed out that the trial Judge rightly impressed on the assessors that the evidence in support of the case for the prosecution was wholly circumstantial, there being no eyewitness who testified to have seen the appellant pulling the trigger to fire the fatal shot. “Yet, the learned Judge did not go so far as to elaborate what entails circumstantial evidence and how this indirect evidence can irresistibly link an accused to a charged offence,” the justices further noted. What is more, on the adduced evidence, they observed, there was a detail about Jamil Remtula, who was the assistant employment manager at Triple A Holdings Limited being physically assailed by the deceased and that he went so far as to pick an iron rod with intent to further perpetrate the assault. “One would have expected, as indeed it was incumbent upon the trial Judge, to put to the assessors a direction as to whether or not the course of action taken by the appellant, if at all, was necessary for the preservation of the life or limb of the person under attack,” the justices said. According to them, there is, in this regard, a long and unbroken chain of decisions of the Court which underscores the duty imposed on trial judges, who sit with the aid of assessors, to sum up adequately to those assessors on the salient facts as well as all vital points of law. eferring to other decided cases, the justices said: “There was a non-direction on the part of the trial judge in not addressing the assessors on a vital point of law. It cannot be said that the trial was with the aid of assessors under section 265 of the Criminal Procedures Act, 1995 (RE 2002). That irregularity marred the entire proceedings.” “From this finding, we are minded to exercise the Court’s revisional jurisdiction under section 4(2) of the Appellate Jurisdiction Act, and, as a result, we quash and set aside the entire proceedings of the High Court,” they declared in the judgement. The appellant was formally arraigned for murder, an offence committed on October 19, 2015, at Triple A Mbagala Mission in Temeke, Dar es Salaam, where he murdered David Mwalolo. During the trial, Jamil Remtula, who was assistant employment manager at Triple A Holdings Limited, had told the court that on the fateful day, at about 7pm or so, the deceased arrived at the company’s premises from Lubumbashi, the DemocratRepublic of Congo (DRC), where he had travelled to.