HAVING a limit to whatever you do in life is important. Drinking may be fine. However, Excessive drinking has a negative impact, always. Perhaps Hashimu Amasha, a local brew boozer who remains behind bars for life for defiling a minor, would have learnt this as a lesson. Our Staff Writer FAUSTINE KAPAMA reports.. Hashimu Amasha, a resident of Chunya District in Mbeya City, appeared before the District Court convicted of rape. Apart from being sentenced to 30 years’ imprisonment with eight strokes of the cane, he was ordered to pay the victim a sum of 2m/-as compensation. Amasha, the appellant, appealed to the High Court of Tanzania at Mbeya. However, his appeal was dismissed. The dismissal was accompanied by more desolation as the judge of the High Court, who heard the appeal in question enhanced the sentence to the mandatory life imprisonment in terms of section 131 (3) of the Penal Code in view of the age of the victim being under the age of ten years. It was the prosecution’s accusation that on or about July 19, 2014 at Kimbelekete Hamlet of Mapogolo Village within Chunya District in Mbeya Region, the appellant had carnal knowledge of “PS”, a girl aged five years. In proving the charge at the trial, the prosecution produced four witnesses and a medical examination report (PF.3) on the victim. In the fateful evening PS was at the home of her maternal aunt, who used to sell local brew. The brew attracted quite a number of carousers including the appellant. Around 19:00 hours that evening, the appellant, having excessively taken the local brew grabbed PS, silenced her by stuffing a piece of khanga into her mouth and carried her on his shoulders to a nearby anthill. While there, he removed PS’s clothes as well as his trousers and then had forced carnal knowledge of her. Once he was done, he threatened PS that he would kill her if she divulged to anybody what had befallen her. Then and there, he fled the scene. The minor remained at the scene alone for a while in deep pain and agony with her private parts injured. She finally collected herself and walked back home but she told nobody of the sexual attack as she feared the appellant’s possible reprisal. On July 25, 2014, the victim’s elder sister visited the home of their aunt. While there her younger sister appeared sickly. After a brief conversation with her, she confided to her what the appellant did to her on July 19, 2014, saying that she could not tell anybody for fear of the appellant’s threats. On examining her female organ, the sister saw bruises and yellowish discharge. The matter was reported to the police. The appellant was subsequently arrested and charged with the offence. In his sworn defence evidence, the appellant disassociated with the accusation by the prosecution. He recounted to have been arrested by a mob at 8:00 hours on July 19, 2014 over the alleged rape. But then he gave what appears to be a long winded tale suggesting that the case against him was framed up mainly because the victim’s mother had grudges against him. The Resident Magistrate who tried the case found the victim’s evidence truthful and credible; that it linked the appellant to the criminal act committed on her. Further, it was held that the victim’s account was sufficiently corroborated by the evidence of other two witnesses as well as the PF3. Accordingly, the trial magistrate convicted the appellant of the charged offence and sentenced him to 30 years, a punishment which was enhanced by the High Court. Resenting the outcome of his first appeal, the appellant decided to appeal to the Court of Appeal, advancing several complaints. Justices Stella Mugasha, Gerald Ndika and Barkeh Sahel determined the appeal and dismissed all the eight grounds of appeal the appellant had presented in attempt to fault findings of both the trial court and that of the High Court. They began addressing the first complaint, which raises the issue whether the appellant was positively identified at the scene. “Without any qualms, we are of the opinion that the appellant was properly identified as the person who committed the depraved sexual act on the prosecutrix,” the justices held. To reach that conclusion, they took into account that victim and the appellant were familiar with each other as they came from the same village and that he used to visit her mother’s home for a drink with his colleagues. The justices also noted that even if it was in the evening the victim and the appellant were in close contact allowing her to observe and recognize him properly as the assailant. They also noted that the victim in her testimony gave a straightforward and convincing chronicle of the events that happened culminating in the appellant taking her to an anthill where, having unclothed her and himself, he raped her. “We are also in accord with (prosecution) that it is most significant that (the victim’s) evidence of identification was not controverted as the appellant shied away from cross-examining her on that aspect or specifically challenging that piece of evidence in his defence,” the justices said. It is trite law that failure to cross-examine a witness on an important matter implies the acceptance of the truthfulness of the witness’s evidence. In the instant case, the justices were satisfied that there was no possibility of a mistaken identification. “Thus, there is no cause for interfering with the concurrent finding of the courts below based on evidence that was found credible and reliable that the appellant was properly recognized. The complaint under consideration is unmerited and we dismiss it,” they ruled. On the victim’s age, the justices were in full agreement with the prosecution that it was sufficiently proven that she was seven years at the material time. Indeed, besides the victim identifying herself as being seven years old at the time she adduced evidence at the trial, her elder sister was in same stand. “We think that (the victim’s) elder sister, aged 20 years at the time she adduced evidence, was credible and reliable person on that aspect. We note that the appellant did not bring any issue with it when he cross-examined the Clinician (when testifying on the aspect),” they said. As regards the voir dire examination on the victim, the justices were persuaded by the prosecution that the said test was properly conducted by the trial magistrate asking questions aimed at determining if she understood the meaning of oath and, if not, she understood the duty to speak the truth. They held that the trial magistrate rightly determined that the victim did not know the meaning of oath and allowed her to testify without oath and be cross-examined by the appellant. In the course of evaluating the evidence, the trial magistrate was aware that her testimony being an unsworn statement required corroboration although it could also be acted upon without corroboration as per section 127 (7) of the Evidence Act, if the court was satisfied that it was nothing but the truth. The justices also pointed out that the appellant’s complaint that his defence was not considered is decidedly hollow. They recalled that when he was put on his defence, the appellant made a general denial of the accusation against him. According to them, the appellant raised a long winded tale suggesting that the case against him was framed up mainly because the victim’s mother had grudges against him. As rightly submitted by the prosecution, such defence was considered but rejected by the learned trial magistrate in his judgment. “At any rate, the justices said, the appellant line of defence was inherently weak and hence liable to be rejected in view of the evidence that the courts below found credible and truthful. They pointed out that the appellant was positively identified by the victim, who also gave a straightforward and convincing account detailing circumstances and events leading to the depraved and appalling sexual act. “This complaint too is without substance. It fails,” they held.