BAHA’IS all over the world are celebrating the bicentenary of the birth of the Bab, the Prophet Herald of the Baha’i religion. The “Bab”, a title that means “Gate” or “Door” in Arabic, was born in the city of Shiraz, Persia, in the year 1819 A.D. He belonged to a house which was renowned for its nobility. Media statement issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday noted that in Tanzania, the event will be marked on October 29 in the country’s commercial city. The central theme of his major work, The Bayan, according to the statement, was the imminent appearance of a second Messenger from God, One Who would be far greater than the Bab, and whose mission would be to usher in the age of peace and justice promised in Judaism, Christianity, Islam and all the other world religions. “The Bab’s appearance marks the end of the “Prophetic Cycle” of religious history, and ushers in the “Cycle of Fulfillment,” read part of the statement. The Bab, whose teachings attracted tens of thousands of followers, was persecuted and imprisoned for six years following His proclamation of a new Message from God. He was eventually executed in 1850 in the public square in Tabriz, Iran, on the order of the government. Much later, His remains were entombed on Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel, and His Shrine is now a place of pilgrimage for the Baha’is worldwide. Nineteen years after the declaration of the Bab, in 1863, one of the Bab's followers entitled Baha'u'llah, The Glory of God, announced that He was the Promised One foretold by the Bab. The Bahá’í Faith is an independent, monotheistic religion. It accepts the divine origin and common purpose of all the major world religions, and teaches that God has revealed a new message in this day to establish the oneness of humanity. It is the second-most geographically widespread religion in the world, with more that 7 million adherents who live in more than 118,000 localities in over 230 countries or significant territories. About 2,112 indigenous tribes, races and ethnic groups are represented in the Baha’i community. In Tanzania, Bahá'ís are found in every region.