FOUR years have passed since Dr John Magufuli was sworn in as the President of United Republic of Tanzania on November 5, 2015. One amongst his quotations that has brought public discussion here in Washington is “I would like to tell media owners: Be careful... If you think you have that kind of freedom, (it is) not to that extent.” The similar discourse was also raised when Ismail Ajjawi, 17, a Palestinian from Lebanon who wanted to begin studies at Harvard University was denied entry to the United States after Immigration Officials found that his friend had posted a content that criticized the U.S government. The report of this boy who was questioned for more than eight hours before being deported went viral worldwide. It raised global conversation about the extent that human beings should enjoy the freedom of expression, but denied. The global debate about freedom of expression involves two groups; first group represents few libertarian laggards, while, the second group represents the sentiments that media should be responsible to the society. Actually, first group strongly condemns the compliance of limitations stipulated in international standards on freedom of expression. These Libertarians usually cite all articles that guarantee freedom. For them a human being should be given more freedom to express their opinion whether hate speech or defamatory statement without any censorship or any authority blockades. Their point of argument is that excess freedom gives media the power to reveal the wrongdoing of public. The second group believes that Libertarian theory is outdated existed in 16th century. Excess freedom existed at that time brought about destruction of social order. Consequently, both government and public, including media people, complained about the behaviors of media thus led formation of Hutchin commission which came up with some restrictions to this freedom. Let us remember what American scholar; Toni Massaro said” “The plain fact is that not all free speech is good speech. Which means that freedom of speech is not always a sound or just public policy.” To make things clear, the then President of United States of America, Mr Barrack Obama when he was explaining about freedom of speech at the General Assembly of United Nation in 2012, said: “So much attention in our world turns to what divides us. That’s what we see on the news. That’s what consumes our political debates.” In fact it is difficult to say easily that one among these is correct; excess freedom or limitation of freedom. But philosophers give us the right path toward such action; equally, history reveals that some information led to the great massacre in Rwanda, huge moral destructions in Arab nations, and post-election violence in Kenya. For sure, nowadays there is no any nation that guarantees hundred percent freedom of expression to its people. All countries have some laws, which limit this freedom. For example, here in America, making a threat, blackmail, soliciting a crime, lying under oath, violation of copyright, hate speech and many more are strictly prohibited. It should be remembered that President Magufuli assumed power at the time where the country was divided. He had to work to de-radicalise political extremism existed, which existed in post-election. By doing so he had to make media responsible for what they publish, because the media is part and parcel of the community that should come with solutions to challenges in the public, not mere critics.