THE Rukwa Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Joachim Wangabo has expressed discontent over the action of Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mathias Nyange for arresting and releasing Laela Ward Livestock Officer, Emmanuel Tluway, without arraigning him into court. Tluway was arrested on October 10, this year at the small town of Laela in Sumbawanga District Council, allegedly for stealing two cows, property of Deusderius Ntamanyika, and slaughtering one. Shocked and dissatisfied over the release of Tluway from remand custody, the RC directed members of the regional defence and security committee to work together with RPC Nyange and Rukwa Regional Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) officer Mr Hamza Mwenda to ensure the suspect is rearrested and prosecuted with immediate effect. Vividly disturbed, the RC sternly warned against tricks used to release Tluway, saying the suspected cattle rustler must be prosecuted. “It is a big surprise and disheartening to learn that the cow thief was arrested and released without being arraigned into court, there must be conspiracy to favour him (Tluway) … PCCB commander and RPC are here now, I direct state organs to work together with them to ensure that the thief is re- arrested and prosecuted without much delay,” the RC ordered. Apprehension of Tluway was done a day after President John Magufuli concluded his three day working tour of Rukwa region, where while at the small town of Namanyere in Nkasi District, the Head of State talked tough against cattle rustling which is reportedly at an alarming rate in the region. While addressing a public rally at SabaSaba playing ground, President Magufuli directed the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Mr. Luhaga Mpina to visit Rukwa region in efforts to address the problem of cattle rustling, accusing some dishonest leaders in the precinct of being part of the problem. Impeccable report from the scene of incident has it that the suspect is a livestock officer at Laela Ward and is allegedly an incorrigible cattle rustler camouflaging under his official position.