MOST tribal settings in rural Tanzania have their boys and, occasionally, male babies, circumcised as a compelling cultural imperative. I hail from Mara Region where the Wasimbiti circumcise their boys mostly between the ages of 15 and 17. Male circumcisions are also a tribal imperative among the Maasai. Here, circumcision of male babies is virtually unknown. Circumcisions are not common among the Wajaluo, Wahaya and Wasukuma of Mara, Kagera and Mwanza regions respectively. I must mention at the outset, however, that this discussion mainly centres on the circumcision of young boys. Female circumcision, which is commonly and disparagingly referred to as female genital mutilation (FGM), is a horrendous ritual that is illegal. I will discuss it briefly later. Now, let us look at the reasons why circumcision may be carried out on boys and occasionally on male babies. Let us see what the procedure involves. In short, circumcision of boys is an operation in which the foreskin is removed. The foreskin is the small flap of skin at the tip of the male sexual organ that can usually be pulled back over the end of the organ. Some people believe that the foreskin is redundant and that it gets in the way of good hygiene and, sometimes, the sexual activity in adults. I also believe so but the ideas are disputable. I support male circumcision wholeheartedly. However, some people believe that the foreskin is a “very sensitive” and vital part of the male anatomy that should not be removed. Circumcision is done for a variety of reasons depending on cultural rituals, religious beliefs or hygienic stands. Among the Wasimbiti, male circumcision is a compulsory passing from childhood to adulthood. The ritual also enhances societal status among men. An uncircumcised man might fail to marry. In some religions, such as Islam, it is a mandatory ritual that has to do with spiritual purity. And, as I have already pointed out, in some cultures the ritual is done for reasons that appear to impinge on hygiene. Circumcision may be done when the foreskin is narrowed or tight and cannot be pulled back. Other medical reasons for circumcision include recurrent attacks of infection under the foreskin known in the medical parlance as balanitis. There is also an unusual condition that tends to affect adult men called balanitisxeroticaobliterans. Tiny patches of lymph glands on the underside of the foreskin may process infectious organisms including HIV/AIDS, helping them to enter the body. Recent research has suggested that circumcision may help to reduce the risk of contracting HIV/AIDS. In urban Tanzania, circumcision is occasionally performed on babies aged between a few days and a few months but this practice does not have state backing. I must point out here that there is no compelling medical reason for circumcision. In Britain, for example, the operation is no longer routinely performed on healthy children. In fact, only one in ten British teenage boys have been circumcised. In Africa, however, the ritual is widely practiced. Circumcision is a painful operation. With small babies, local anaesthetic may be sufficient and this avoids the risks of a general anaesthetic. Dissolving stitches (that do not need to be removed) are usually used. Local anaesthetic is a numbing medicine that can be injected at the base of the male sexual organ or in the shaft. In some cases local anaesthetic may be applied as a cream. In older children or in very rare adult cases, circumcision is best performed with the “beneficiary” completely asleep under general anaesthetic. Healing, in normal circumstances, takes up to seven days. Simple pain relief medical drugs, such as Paracetamol should be given regularly after the surgery. Occasionally, there may be complications after the operation, including infection and scarring. Parents or care givers should be vigilant for these and get advice immediately if problems develop. In male babies the foreskin is lightly attached to the sexual organ underneath it, much like the skin on an orange. It normally comes free over the course of the first few years of life. By this analogy the foreskin can be readily separated from the main body of the sexual organ at the start of a circumcision. A variety of methods are used to remove the foreskin. And the amount of the foreskin eliminated can also vary depending on technique and culture. The Maasai leave it hanging at the base. The demand for medical male circumcision keeps growing among Tanzanian non-circumcising communities. An estimated 67 percent of Tanzanian men are circumcised, but prevalence varies from region to region. In some parts of western Tanzania, circumcision levels are as low as 20 percent. Circumcision may help to reduce the risk of contracting HIV/AIDS. This being the case, the circumcision programme - launched in 2011–aimed at reaching 2.8 million males and saving them from the scourge of HIV/AIDS. Their ages ranged between 10 and 34 years. The initial scheme, at that time, was pegged to cover five years. The initiative focused on seven regions including those which had low levels of male circumcision. The regions were Iringa, Kagera, Mara, Mwanza, Rukwa, Shinyanga and Tabora. In Iringa, the project aimed at circumcising 260,000 men and boys by 2015. The first phase, which ended in December 2011, was expected to cover 20,000 males. Up to September [2011], 30,000 men and boys had been circumcised under the programme, which reflected a success of 150 percent. Most of those who volunteered for circumcision in Iringa were adolescent boys and unmarried men. Older married men were reluctant to come forward. Only 38 percent of Iringa men were circumcised. At that time the region had an HIV prevalence rate of 15.7 percent-about three times the national average. In the northwestern region of Kagera, more than 13,000 men and boys underwent circumcision between 2010 and 2011. The response to the campaign was quite promising as more people were showing up voluntarily for the ‘cut’. It was envisaged that the target of over 300,000 men and boys be circumcised by 2015. The programme-supported by the Tanzanian government, the US government and the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria-provided the service free of charge. Tanzania had trained doctors and nurses to perform the procedure. Circumcision is one of the most common cultural or medical procedures in the world, with 25 operations performed every minute worldwide. It is also one of the oldest and the simplest. The fact, that it continues to be popular, must mean there are good virtues in it. Now let us look briefly at what female genital mutilation (FGM) involves and what the state and the World Health Organization (WHO) think about it. FGM involves the removal of the clitoris by cutting it with a sharp blade across the high-pressure clitoral artery. This procedure is likely to cause life-threatening haemorrgage if carried out without competent surgical control. In the event of massive haemorrhage, serious collapse or sudden death may occur. Major blood loss can result in long-term anaemia. With infants (a practice that is uncommon) the “traditional surgeon” or “ngariba” in Kiswahili, uses fingernails to cut off the baby’s nascent clitoris. The rite is conducted clandestinely under a shroud of secrecy. The “surgeon” wanders casually into the baby’s home and works in dim light. The procedure, when carried out on girls, is performed with crude homemade knives, pairs of scissors, scalpels and pieces of glass or razor blades. There is often additional unintended damage to the labia minora due to crude tools, poor light or septic conditions. Infection, due to unhygienic conditions, and the use of crude, unsterilized tools, is a likely consequence. Infection can also be contracted due to the application of traditional herbs used for healing the wound. These often come in the form of crushed tree leaves or roots. The “surgery” is usually carried out by elderly village women. These are women who have been specially designated for this task or by traditional birth attendants. In urban centres affluent families prefer eliciting the services of health personnel such as midwives and doctors. However, the Tanzanian government and the WHO have consistently condemned the medicalization of both circumcision and FGM. The WHO sees the practices as unnecessary as they are likely to carry serious, potentially dangerous complications. In Tanzania FGM has been banned. In rural Tanzania FGM may not cross many minds as a public health hazard that warrants condemnation as it bears nasty physical, sexual and psychological consequences. The ritual is tailored to propel girls into womanhood. In fact, the “surgeons” who carry out FGM on infants must be stark raving mad. In Tanzania, the fight against female genital mutilation remains long and hard. Yes, the ongoing struggle against the diabolical practice remains hard--but it is critical. Despite government efforts to eliminate the practice some people continue it in a shroud of secrecy mainly in Mara, Dodoma, Kilimanjaro, Singida and Manyara regions where children and adult women aged between six and 20 years undergo the harmful ritual. Although there are sustained sensitization efforts and legal curbs that aim at eradicating the practice, “surgeons” are still at work, mutilating children and women secretly. A recent survey shows that the practice is mainly prevalent in ten regions on the Mainland. In Arusha and Manyara regions the prevalence stands at 81 per cent. In Dodoma 68 per cent of women are mutilated. In Mara the rate is 44 per cent; Kilimanjaro (37 per cent); Iringa (27 per cent); Singida (25 per cent); Tanga (25 per cent) and Morogoro (20 per cent). Dar es Salaam appears to have the smallest rate at 5.4 per cent. An anti-FGM activist, who wished to remain anonymous, said in Dar es Salaam recently that the anti-FGM crusade has made headway so far in sensitizing elders in tribal settings to shun the harmful ritual. It is highly critical that communities must look for alternative methods of marking the passage of girls to womanhood (unyago). The contention here is that people do not have to mutilate young girls to get them to graduate into womanhood. spmwita@yahoo.com