TANZANIA remains an attractive investment destination in Africa thanks to its impressive macroeconomic performance and commitment for reforms, Absa’s macroeconomist for Sub Sahara Africa, Ridle Markus has said. Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday, Mr Markus commended Tanzania for impressive growth rate in recent years despite a number of global and domestic challenges. He was presenting new developments on the current Global and Tanzania macroeconomic environment to the Barclays Bank clients. Tanzania has been a macro- economic success story for about two decades with real gross domestic product (GDP) growth averaging 7 per cent supported by key drivers namely construction, manufacturing, mining, transport, and communications sectorsas well as substantial public infrastructure development. The East African Community (EAC) second largest economy enjoys a positive medium-term outlook, with a growth rate of 7 per cent in 2018 and projection of 7.1 per cent in 2019, representing one of the best performances in Africa. The bank’s Managing Director, Mr Abdi Mohamed said the name and brand change to Absa was proceeding as planned and noted they expected some branches to incorporate some changes from next month. “We have taken a sequenced approach and expect some branches to reflect several elements of the new brand by mid-November, while some branches will retain the current look.” “The intention is to take our customers and the public with us through the transformation journey visually. We will however continue to operate and trade as Barclays Bank Tanzania Limited until our name officially changes, as approved by the Regulator,” he said. He said Barclays was committed to serving customers and were proud of a momentum built over the past three years where they financed key areas. “Our commitment to our clients has been demonstrated in the successful execution of key financing transactions amounting to 529bn/-, across sectors such as Oil & Gas, Public Sector, Manufacturing and Agriculture,” he said. Barclays Bank Tanzania is part of Absa Group Limited, formerly Barclays Africa Group Limited, and originally Amalgamated Banks of South Africa. It is one of Africa’s largest diversified financial services groups with a presence in 12 countries across the continent including Tanzania. Absa Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Peter Matlare and the Regional Managing Director for the Absa Africa Operations, Saviour Chibiya had joined Barclays Bank officers to host the clients.