VICE-PRESIDENT Samia Suluhu Hassan has challenged member states of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to act on many good strategies crafted on environment, natural resources and tourism that are getting dusty in shelves. In her opening speech to the joint meeting of SADC ministers responsible for the three sectors, the VP said if the truth be told, there are many reports with good plans and strategies drafted by most of SADC member countries but end up in files in respective offices. She expressed concern over the situation which she attributed to most plans being too theoretical instead of focusing on the respective country's financial and professional capability. She noted that SADC member states seem to disregard local strategies and techniques that could be used to repair the environmental damages. "If we evaluate ourselves truly, we will discover that most, among SADC member states, have in place good plans in dealing with different challenges such as pollution and environmental degradation, but they remain in files at our offices," she explained. On the other hand, she noted, the role of citizens in protecting the environment is taken carelessly. "Citizens who are the ones responsible for environmental damage or for misuse of resources are not involved in the plans to repair damages they have caused,” she elaborated. "Either, awareness raising and training among the citizens on importance of sustainable use of resources is unsustainable. These are things that I would like the countries of the SADC Community to consider," stressed the Vice-President, whose office is also responsible for environment matters. Samia said that she was happy to be with the ministers and senior officials from the sectors of environment, natural resources and tourism. The Vice-Presidentpraised countries that have reached a milestone in developing conservation and environmental protection strategies that are now on implementation stages. She said it was pertinent for every country to take action, especially on mitigating climate change impacts. Climate change, she explained, has caused a lot of negative effects such as rise of sea levels, changes in seasons, lack of enough rain that in turn cause widespread drought and desertification or frequent flooding and an increase of epidemics. She said the pace of environmental degradation was higher than efforts being taken to conserve the same and to save the resources that SADC partner states are endowed with. She said every member state is duty-bound to strategise in line with SADC Protocols and Strategy Plans. Ministers attending the meeting were urged to fully address a challenge that she said has not been given immediate solutions; that is, invasive alien species that are destructive to agriculture, fishery, livestock, tourism, and biodiversity conservation. She called upon all governments to conserve ecology systems of wildlife, forests, aquatic organisms and beaches in sustainable way regardless of geographical borders. She singled out Transfortier Conservation of the Indian Ocean which involves Tanzania, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles, France and The Comoros. SADC member states were also urged to allocate more funds in their yearly budgets to address environment conservation and climate change mitigation. The Vice-President said in different international meetings a lot of money is pledged for that purpose but so little is dished out, a trend that should now force SADC States to see the matter as their own responsibility. The meeting was under Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Hamisi Kigwangalla, the current chair of the SADC Committee of Ministers of Environment, Natural Resources and Tourism.