FIVE people, including employees with a mobile service provider company, Tigo, have been released from remand prison after entering a pleabargaining agreement with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to repay over 20m/-to the government. They are Kokubelwa Karashani, a Tigo Customer Service-Mlimani City, Godfrey Magoye, an agent with Tigo, Khalfani Milao, a Customer Care with Tigo, Mohamed Abdallah and Mosses kilosa, who are both businessmen. Before signing the agreement, the accused persons had written letters to the DPP under presidential amnesty with a view of ending the trial. After accepting the letters, the DPP agreed with the accused to drop some of the charges preferred against them. The charges include conspiracy to commit an offence, gaining access to financial data without permission, publishing false information, initiation and transmission of unsolicited messages and money laundering. The DPP prepared a new charge sheet containing one count instead of seven the accused persons were earlier charged with. The charge sheet was filed at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam before Senior Resident Magistrate, Augustine Rwezile. Having confessed to the count of obtaining 20,378,627/-from Tigo customers and presentation of memorandum of facts, the magistrate convicted the accused persons on their own plea of guilty. They were each given a suspended sentence of six months. The magistrate, apart from ordering the convicts to pay the said sum, also ordered that 13 mobile phones used by the convicts in committing the crimes be converted into government property. Before being sentenced, the prosecution led by Senior State Attorney, Awamu Mbangwa, requested the court to consider the agreement the accused persons had entered into with the DPP. On their part, the accused requested for mercy as they were first offenders, and should thus be given lenient sentences. The court heard that Between January 1, 2018 and June 2019 in Dar es Salaam and Arusha, by false pretences and with intent to defraud, Abdallah, Kilosa, Karashani, Magoye and Milao obtained 20,378,627/-, property of Tigo customers by withdrawing money from their Tigo Pesa accounts. Particulars of dropped charges indicated that between January 1, 2018 and June 20, 2019 at Tigo Shop Mlimani City areas in Kinondoni District, being employee of Tigo Customer Service Department, fraudulently gained access to Tigo customers' financial data without permission. According to the prosecution, a similar offence was allegedly committed by Magoye, being an agent of Tigo Tanzania Service Provider, Customer Service Department, within the same period at Tigo Shop at Kariakoo areas in Ilala District. Both accused persons gave such information to Mohamed Sadick Abdallah with intent to obtain money from their customers. Abdallah was charged with one count of being found in possession of government store, that is one coat, pair of trousers, handcrafts and a cap, properties of Tanzania People's Defense Forces. The accused persons were charged with money laundering. It was alleged that between January 1, 2018 and June 2019 in Dar es Salaam and Arusha, Abdallah, Kilosa, Karashani, Magoye and Milao, acquired 20,378,627/- while they knew the sum was proceed of predicate offence of obtaining money falsely.