THE German Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety has visited Serengeti ecosystem conservation projects with the aim of biodiversity and nature protections. The legislators led by the committee’s chairperson, Ms Sylvia Kotting-Uhl made the visit on Wednesday and Thursday this week, saying: “We are here because we are interested in nature protection and protection of biodiversity. However, the rangers here are doing a great work and to protect Serengeti biodiversity.” The delegates in the itinerary visited several projects being funded by German government through KfW Development Bank and Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS). With its headquarters in Germany, FZS remains the leading partner implementing and supporting various schemes, which in Serengeti National Park protection. Ms Sylvia said protection of the Serengeti ecosystem is essential for the benefit of the whole world, and pledged her government continuous support. “Protecting this biodiversity (Serengeti) is a job being done for the whole world, not only for Tanzania and we are very grateful for this,” she said. Ms Sylvia noted that the reason for her government to support the projects was to protect loss of biodiversity in the great Serengeti ecosystem. Welcoming them, Tanzania Conservationists in Serengeti said the entourage’s visit would have a significant impact on the sustainable conservation of the world famous park. “We are grateful for the visit by Parliamentary Committee members for the environment from Germany. They have been satisfied with the projects they are funding and promised to give us more funds to support conservation of Serengeti,” said SENAPA Chief Park Warden, Masana Mwishawa. On his part, FZS Tanzania Programme Grants Coordinator, Dr Michael Thompson said : “We are indeed very grateful today for the visit of the Germany Parliamentary team, particularly the support they have been providing to the government of Tanzania through the Germany Tanzania Biodiversity Programme. “FZS is a long term partner with Tanzania government wildlife authorities, and our role really is to provide a channel for new technologies, techniques and systems, which have been tried in protected areas around the world.” He said that their advanced technologies to protect Serengeti have shown positive results, worth emulation and praise. In a related development, the visitors also visited the area to see how the surrounding communities’ lives were being transformed by the presence of the projects in their midst. Reached for a comment, SENAPA Senior Conservation Officer and Coordinator, Nuhu Daniel said that the 20 million Euros KfW funded project, is jointly being implemented by Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) and FZS in five-year period.