COTTON buying companies with outstanding claims to farmers have 14 days to pay or risk the consequences. President John Magufuli gave the ultimatum yesterday when he addressed the nation from Katavi region’s Mpanda District. He was reacting on a report submitted to him, indicating that cotton buying companies have not paid for six million kilogrammes of the cash crop they procured from farmers. Dr Magufuli also laid the foundation stone for construction of the 342.6-kilometre Mpanda-Tabora road. He directed the ministry of agriculture, Katavi Regional Commissioner Juma Homera and all consigned banks to supervise the payment drive. “This is what irks farmers…they farm and harvest but end up with bank documents instead of money. They should get paid within 14 days, there is nothing for free,” President Magufuli ordered at the inauguration ceremony for the 36-kilometre road from Mpanda to Sitalike. In value addition to cotton in Katavi, the president challenged the regional admiration to look for a suitable area to construct the ginnery, saying the government will finance the construction works should no investor express interest. The region had planned to put up the 1.6bn/- ginnery to process its cotton. President Magufuli also ordered all civil servants not ready to work in rural areas to resign. He issued the tough order in reference to claims by Katavi RC that schools in rural areas had serious shortage of teachers due those posted to theremote schools were refusing to relocate. The president said construction of Mpanda-Tabora road was one of major concerns that wananchi raised during his 2015 election campaigns. “I know the troubles you encountered in travelling from here (Mpanda) to Dar es Salaam,” he said of the 300bn/- African Development Bank (AfDB) funded project. He challenged the contractor and the ministry for works, transport and communication to ensure that the construction works are completed within time, saying money is not a problem. The newly launched Mpanda- Sitalike stretch has been constructed using domestic revenues. The road plays an important role in transportation of cargo from Uganda to Zambia and South Africa. “Cargo from Uganda will be passing here. Mpanda now becomes a business hub…this is why I am happy that Mpanda that I used to have in mind is going to change,” Dr Magufuli said. Meanwhile, President Magufuli yesterday directed Air Tanzania Company Ltd (ATCL) to introduce a new flight to Mpanda by tomorrow, saying Katavi region has immense tourism potentials to explore. “I will not leave Mpanda without seeing ATCL plane,” the president vowed, saying challenges at Mpanda airport that were impeding the airline to fly to the facility have been fixed. “Katavi citizens also need ATCL plane,” Dr Magufuli underscored. Earlier, Land, Housing and Human Settlements Minister William Lukuvi announced that from next January people will be getting title deeds from the regional offices instead of zonal offices, relieving them of the long distance travels in following up on their title deeds. “We are going to equip the regional offices with enough facilities for survey, they don’t need to hire them,” he said, noting that the government had realised the troubles that the residents of Katavi region faced in acquiring title deeds. They had to travel from Katavi to Tabora zonal office to get the documents. Home Affairs Minister Kangi Lugola assured that peace has now been maintained in Katavi, unlike the past when incidents of robbery and car hijacks were rampant. Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Minister Ummy Mwalimu told Katavi residents that President Magufuli have walked the talks in improving the health sector. She said the government has for the past four years improved health infrastructures by building more new hospitals and health centres. In Katavi, the government has built hospitals in each of the region’s three districts and eight health centres.