THE management of Young Africans has praised fans in the country for their tireless support to the team during the CAF Champions League matches. Yanga missed the opportunity to reach into the group stage of the Champions League a 2-1 loss to Zambia’s Zesco United, which ended to a 3-2 aggregate loss. An own goal by Abdulaziz Makame in the dying minutes of the tense match at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola, Zambia last Saturday was enough to see off Yanga in the competition and were instantly squeezed into the CAF Confederation Cup. However, despite the fall, the team’s management could not resist but wholeheartedly thanked Tanzanians for rallying behind the team until on the last day in the continent’s biggest club football contest. “The leadership of Yanga take this chance to laud all Tanzanians who in one way or the other were on the front line supporting the club in its endeavour to cruise into the group stage of CAF CL,” said the club’s Vice Chairman Fredrick Mwakalebela yesterday after arriving back from Zambia. He added: “As you saw, the team fought hard in the return leg to progress further into the competition but luck was not to our side. Players, the technical bench and supporters all played their role very well as such, we thank them.” Mwakalebela then called the same spirit to be directed to the team during the upcoming CAF Confederation Cup games of which Yanga are the country’s only envoys in the continental level duels. “Bearing in mind how big the competition is, we are going to invest more energy so that we manage to excel and fly high our flag on the international platform,” he said. He added that at the moment, they are waiting official report from the team’s Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera to see which areas need to be strengthened prior to the start of the contest whose draw, according to him, will be done on October 9th. Mwakalebela also seized the opportunity to thank the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) for rescheduling their Vodacom Premier League match against Polisi Tanzania which was expected to be played today at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. “Truly, what the TPLB has done to push further the match is a big honour to us and we highly appreciate that. That was a great sportsmanship behaviour. We will continue to cooperate with them for the development of football in the country,” he said. He also revealed that the team is set to enter into camp right away after jetting in to prepare for the two back to back VPL matches coming ahead. “It is our hope that Yanga fans will continue to come in big numbers to cheer their team in all the venues we will be playing. Their presence means a lot,” he said.