Taifa Stars hero against Sudan Ditram Nchimbi said he is happy to go in the history books for sending Stars to the African Nations Championship (CHAN) finals. Nchimbi scored the all-important goal to navigate the country’s senior team to Cameroon where the CHAN finals will be played next year. He pumped in a powerful shot in the 79th minute to silence Sudan after utilising well a sweet pass from Shaaban Idd Chilunda’s solo effort. The aggregate was 2-2 but Star’s progressed after netting two crucial away goals. The home team produced a massive comeback in the second half of the match as they succeeded to net two goals and prevented the hosts Sudan from causing any damage despite them enjoying the opening half with a 1-0 lead. “To say the truth, I am very happy such that I cannot find the way to express how I feel. The most important part is that I will be remembered as a person who managed to send Stars to the 2020 CHAN finals. This is awesome,” Nchimbi said in an exclusive interview in Dar es Salaam. He added: “I had a dream that if I get a chance to play for the national team, I will fully sacrifice myself. As you know, God’s time is always the best and now, the chance has arrived and I am ready to continue working hard for my country.” However, the Polisi Tanzania striker disclosed that much credit should be directed to Stars' technical bench for their change of game plan in the second half of the tense clash. “It was a tough match especially after we conceded but special thanks to the technical panel as they changed the game plan and we played in accordance to their directives something which worked positively for us,” he said. He also revealed that the behaviour of some Sudan fans who started causing chaos in the stadium after the score was levelled did not in any way make them lose focus as they had to just keep the ball and wait for the final whistle to sound. His scoring partner on the day Erasto Nyoni said he dedicated the equalising goal he scored to his family. “We played as a team in the second half something which produced productive results for all Tanzanians and I dedicate my goal to my family,” he said. The team’s skipper Mbwana Samatta could not hold back his excitement as he wrote on his instagram page saying, “It is a big honour you have given to us Tanzanians. I stand with my hat off to salute you all. Thank you very much.” Stars have since secured a second slot in the CHAN competition which is embraced by domestic players only and their first appearance was in 2009 under then Head Coach Marcio Maximo. In that year, the casualty was the same team Sudan who were eliminated after a 5-2 aggregate loss. Now, Tanzania joins the hosting side Cameroon who have automatically qualified for the contest which has been won by the Democratic Republic of Congo (twice), Tunisia, Libya and Morocco.