A TOTAL of 82 municipal and district councils are in hot soup after the Uhuru Torch race exposed shoddy implementation of 107 development projects, worth 90.2bn/- , in their jurisdictions. The projects were found to lack ‘value for money’, thus raising suspicions of the existence of corruption during either at the stage of signing contracts or undertaking the projects. During this year’s Uhuru Torch race, at least 1390 development projects worth 4.7tri/- countrywide were inspected. Plus foundation stones for some projects were laid and some were inaugurated. President John Magufuli tasked the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) to investigate and drag to court officials involved in corrupt deals detected in defective implementation of 107 projects. The Head of State handed over the report compiled by leaders of this year’s Uhuru Torch race over the projects to the anti-graft body during the climax of the Uhuru Torch race at Ilulu ground in Lindi Region. The celebrations were held alongside commemorations of Nyerere Day, which is marked on 14th October every year to remember the Founder of the nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who died on that date and month in 1999. “I have received the report from the Uhuru Torch race team. I am handing it over to you (PCCB) to work on it; go through it thoroughly, page after page. I need your recommendations and send to court those involved,” Dr Magufuli directed. The President said the report has highlighted several faults in implementation of the projects, including corruption indicators. “The Uhuru Torch race is here to stay because it is one of nation’s values and manifests earnest respect for the father of our nation,” Dr Magufuli reiterated. Earlier, in her speech to welcome the President to the podium to address the nation Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth, and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama, said the Uhuru Torch race laid foundation stones or launched some major development projects countrywide, particularly, water, roads and industries. Ms Mhagama noted that this year the Uhuru Torch race stretched for 195 days, covering a total of 26,273 km within 195 councils in all regions. The race which was launched last April focused on educating Tanzanians on the importance of protecting water sources. On the other hand, at least 67072 people turned out for checking their HIV status, and 16,529 tested for malaria, during this year’s Uhuru Torch race. Leader of the Torch race, Mr Mkongea Ali, said at places where they passed citizens admitted to have continued enjoying better services from the government institutions after the Fifth Phase Government’s efforts to instill discipline among public officials. The Uhuru Torch race also witnessed huge investments in the industrial sector. He said they had also submitted the report on poorly implemented projects to the PCCB for further investigations and taking action against the responsible individuals.