TRADITIONAL medicine practitioners have warned the public over inappropriate use of conventional medicines that may lead to health complications. They said that most people use traditional medicines without considering the right dosage basing on age, weight and other related health conditions, thus being at risk of developing health complications such as kidney disease. The Director of the Institute of Traditional Medicine at the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS), Dr Joseph Otieno, told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that there was a need of having a regulation governing traditional medicines as a well as raising public awareness to minimize the risks. Dr Otieno sounded the warning whilebriefing journalists about the forthcoming African Science Granting Councils (ASGC) international meeting scheduled for November 11 to 15 in Dar es Salaam. The meeting, also known as African Science Week, is organised by Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH). He said the traditional medicine institute has collaborated with other partners such as COSTECH in conducting research on medicinal plants to improve the provision of traditional medicine in the country. "Currently, there is no specific systematic study that has attempted to assess traditional medicine resources in Tanzania. The government should invest in research, especially on traditional medicine to promote and improve its uses," Dr Otieno said. He noted that researches will help to promote traditional medicines available in Tanzania as the country was endowed with varieties of natural plants that could be used as medicinal plants. "We have over 12,000 plants in Tanzania and 20 to 25 percent of the plants have been registered as medicinal plants. We have an opportunity to promote our medicinal plants by conducting research that would help to come up with traditional medicines which will not only be useful to Tanzania but also other countries," he explained. COSTECH Senior Researcher, Dr Khadija Malima, said currently the commission focused on health researches that were beneficial to the majority of Tanzanians. "We want Tanzanians to understand that the commission is using public money to solve people's problems through research and science and technology. We want to link traditional medicine researchers and the industrialisation agenda. Through research, we will be assured of the medicines safety," she said. COSTECH Acting Director of Research Coordination and Promotion Prof Sheikh Mohamed said Tanzania was organising the meeting for the second time that will bring researchers from Africa and other parts of the world. According to Prof Mohamed, the objectives of the commission are to coordinate and develop research but also sharing experiences and knowledge from various researchers around the world as it is not easy to coordinate scientific issues alone without learning from other partners. The conference, organised by COSTECH, is expected to be attended by about 250 members of African Science Granting Councils and other science, technology and innovation stakeholders.