THE Contractors Registration Board (CRB) has deleted over 1,700 local and foreign contractors for failure to comply with registration criteria. According to the board, the contractors were deleted from the register effective October 1, this year, in accordance with Subsection 13 (1) (b) (c) and (d) and 15 (1) (c) respectively of the Contractors Registration Act Cap 235 R.E 2002. A list released by the board yesterday showed that 1,794 contractors from different categories have been deregistered, of which 1,731 were local while 63 were foreign. The deleted contractors (their number in brackets) were from building (763), civil (632), electrical (134), mechanical (31) and specialist (244) categories. The move comes barely four months after the CRB started a countrywide special operation to verify the capacity of the contractors. The operation was in response to complaints about contractors whose performance did not meet the requirements of assigned projects. Briefing journalists on the operation, CRB Registrar Rhoben Nkori (pictured) said verification was going to be one of its kind since the board was established. In the past, the CRB was only submitting questionnaires to contractors for filling and assess if they still met the criteria according to the grades they had registered into for renew of their licences. But the new operation was conducted by physically going to the offices of the contractors. Prof Bakari Mwinyiwiwa from the University of Dar es Salam’s College of Engineering and Technology told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that CRB as the regulator was responsible for ensuring that all contractors complied with registration criteria. “The law is very clear; there are various criteria for contractors registration depending on their grades ...if it happens that there are contractors operating without the required criteria, then they should be removed,” he said. Prof Mwinyiwiwa said that there were a number of things to be considered when registering contractors and sometimes during physical inspections some contractors were cheating by presenting borrowed equipment or temporary workforce. He said that the problem of not complying with the laws was not only in the construction industry but also in other sectors; that was why the country was facing challenges such as ghost workers and students. According to CRB, among others, criteria applied for disqualifying the contractors are lacking required facilities and manpower or violating laws, regulations and ethics governing the industry. Before yesterday’s statement on deregistered contractors, statistics indicated that there were over 10,100 contractors countrywide clustered from grade I to VII. Grade I to III are regarded as first class contractors, while grade IV to VII are middle and lower class contractors, respectively. While opening a two-day General meeting of contractors, engineers and architects in Dar es Salaam last month, President John Magufuli ordered relevant authorities to deregister incompetent contractors and those operating against ethics as well as laws and regulations. The President declared that underperforming contractors won’t be tolerated and shouldn’t be allowed in the country. He noted with concern that some contractors had abandoned projects they had been assigned to implement or had delayed to complete. The President further faulted some contractors for inflating construction costs of projects. He said due to the tendency of local contractors inflating costs, the government decided opting for forced account in executing public projects. Under the forced account, the government can construct 352 health facilities for 184bn/- while the centres could have cost the government over 1tri/- through the use of local contractors.