RUKWA Regional Commissioner Mr Joachim Wangabo has directed the area Regional Police Commander Mr Mathias Nyange and Regional Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau Commander (PCCB) Mr Hamza Mwenda to ensure that two Secondary School teachers are arrested and prosecuted for allegedly impregnating four students and raping another. Mr Wangabo said he was shocked by reports that the suspected teachers were arrested and only to be released in unclear circumstances. The RC named the suspects as Mzindakaya Secondary School Headmaster, Dastus Mlelwa who allegedly impregnated four teenage students and assisted two procure abortion. Mr Wangabo made the revelation during press conference he organised in his office that was also attended by Regional Defence and Security Committee members, adding that three of the girls were aged 16 years and in Form Two, while the other 17 years, was in Form Three. The other suspect was named as Levy Denis from Mpui Secondary School, who allegedly raped a Form Three aged 17 years. It was further alleged that Mr Denis was thereafter transferred to another Secondary School here in Sumbawanga Municipality, after being released from Police custody also in unclear circumstance. Both Mzindakaya and Mpui Secondary Schools are in Sumbawanga District Council. “I have been informed that School Head (Mlelwa) surrendered himself to Laela District Police Station, but was later released in a flimsy environment … … I direct members of regional security and defence committee to cooperate with RPC and PCCB Commanders to ensure that the duo are arrested and prosecuted,” ordered the RC. On 8th October, this year while addressing a public rally at Namanyere Township in Nkasi District, President John Magufuli said he was shocked by high teenage school girl pregnancies in the area and instructed relevant authorities there to immediately look for a lasting solution. Dr Magufuli said the latest reports show that 229 School girls were impregnated in Rukwa Region in one year, describing the situation as worrisome and unacceptable. He further said that some dishonest parents in the region after the crime opt to hide their abused daughters and perpetrators by choosing to settle the matter clandestinely out of Court, which in a way frustrates police investigations, arrests and prosecutions. Expounding, the President directed the regional governments countrywide to impose stern measures against those, who would obstruct police investigation by not disclosing names and whereabouts of the culprits. Commenting, Rukwa Regional Academic Officer, Mr Mathias Tilia told the ‘Daily News’ at the sideline of press briefing that he will make a close follow up of the matter.