GALLANT Tanzanian ladies have bravely defended their East and Central African Golf title after beating Uganda and Kenya in the finals held in Entebbe Uganda. As well Tanzanian Madina Iddi, whose brilliance helped her country win the event for the third time in a row, was also named the top player of the tournament. It looked an easy mission for Tanzanian ladies as they led right from day one with 9 shots and extended the lead to 11 shots at the end of the day two tee off. The third day’s 18 hole competition saw Tanzania finishing 26 shot superior to their closest challengers Uganda. Madina who was named the best individual player, grossed 22O total strokes in her three-day onslaught to end with brilliant +7 score followed by Ugandan Irene Nakalembe who penned + 21 while her team mate Martha Babirye was overall third with + 26 . Two Tanzanians, Angel Eaton who ended with +27 and Hawa Wanyeche who notched +29 completed the top five finishers of the tournament. Tanzania claimed the team title after returning 695 total strokes followed by hosts Uganda with 721 while Kenya finished third with 748 strokes. This year’s East & Central Africa Regional Golf Challenge was staged at par 71 Entebbe Golf Club in Uganda. Iddi who won an individual top prize at the All Africa Challenge Trophy (AACT) in Accra, Ghana started well with 76 strokes that helped Tanzania to claim a comfort lead. National team under the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) president Sophia Viggo was happy to see her players bring back the title. Viggo was among the members of the national team who won the inaugural ECAACT title at the competition held in Ugandan capital, Kampala in 2009 and now aims to repeat the feat as a president. Iddi said: “We are happy to beat our strong opponents Uganda and win the title.” This year’s event missed out defending champions Zambia and other countries like Rwanda, Burundi, Reunion, Malawi, Ethiopia and Seychelles. Teams competed in a 54-hole stroke play event played in three days covering 18 holes daily.