TANZANIA and Barrick Gold Corporation have agreed to settle all disputes between the government and the defunct Acacia mining. The final agreements have just been submitted to the country’s Attorney General for review and legalisation. Already, Tanzania and Barrick have formed a new company—Twiga Minerals Corporation—to manage Bulyanhulu, North Mara and Buzwagi mines as one of the strategies to settle all disputes pitting the government against the mining operations formerly under Acacia. Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation Minister Professor Palamagamba Kabudi told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Barrick will now manage all the mines. “Barrick will own 84 per cent and Tanzanians, through the government control 16 per cent of Twiga Minerals. Acacia is already dead and buried, its operations now come under Mwanza-headquartered Twiga mining,” he said. In their joint press release, the government and Barrick said the terms of agreement include payment of 300 million US dollars (about 700bn/-) to settle all outstanding tax and other disputes. Other terms include lifting of concentrate export ban, sharing of future economic benefits from the mines on a 50/50 basis and establishment of a unique, Africa-focused international dispute resolution framework. Professor Kabudi who doubles as Tanzania’s Negotiating Committee Chairman, stressed that the government will acquire a free carried shareholding of 16 per cent in each of the mines and will receive its half of the economic benefits through taxes, royalties, clearing fees and participation in all cash distribution made by the mines and Twiga. “An annual true-up mechanism will ensure the maintenance of the 50/50 split,” Prof Kabudi maintained. Barrick President and Chief Executive Mark Bristow said the agreements have introduced the new era of productive partnership with the Tanzanian government and will ensure that Tanzania and its people will fully share the value created by the mines they hosted. He said the pacts have also ended the long impasse between Tanzania and Acacia, which had led, among other things, to the closure of North Mara and freezing of export concentrate from the two other operations. Barrick took over the after its buy-out of the Acacia minorities last month. Since then, it has negotiated the re-opening of North Mara and is engaging with the mines’ host communities to restore their social licence. “Rebuilding these operations after three years of value destruction will require a lot of work but the progress we have already made will be greatly accelerated by this agreement. Twiga, which will give the government full visibility of and participation to operating decisions by the mines, represents our new partnership not only in spirit but also in practices,” said Mr Bristow. He said Tanzanians were already being employed and trained to replace foreigners, saying the strategy has worked successfully at other Barrick’s operations in Africa.