INFORMATION and Communications Technology (ICT) professionals in the country should plan and design information technology systems to reduce costs of importing them. Works, Transport and Communications Minister Engineer Isack Kamwelwe gave the advice in Dar es Salaam while opening the third Tanzania Annual ICT Conference 2019 (TAIC-2019). Eng Kamwelwe said it was high time the country stopped relying on systems developed in foreign countries while Tanzania has a lot of ICT professionals who can also do the job to help institutions operate more efficiently, reduce costs and improve communication. “Many ICT professionals have not been able to develop software that can be used with various institutions in their daily operations instead of using a lot of money for procurement and operating systems that are procured outside the country,” he remarked. According to the minister, internet usage in the country has increased from 3.56 million people in 2015 to 23.5 million in 2019. He also urged the professionals to consider integrating Tanzania Customs Integrated System (TANCIS) and Escuda system to reduce forgery and delays in cargo clearing at Tunduma border. ICT Commission acting Director General Samson Mwela said the sector is crucial in development of any country thus private and public institutions need to work together as they both have a role to play in bringing development in the country. Mr Mwela said the conference seeks to strengthen the synergy between the Tanzanian ICT professionals, government, young entrepreneurs and the ICT business community towards advancement of ICT competency and business development in Tanzania. “We are still in the process to register ICT professionals in the country, the challenge that we encounter is we don’t have a law governing the sector that will recognise them legally,” he remarked. Estonian Counsellor for Digital Affairs Kadi Metsandi said the digital journey is not an easy path regardless of the size of the country. “When Estonia started building our information society about two decades ago, there was no digital data being collected about our citizens. The general population did not have the internet or even devices with which to use it. It took great courage and political commitment to invest in IT solutions and take the information technology route,” she noted. Running under the theme ICT for inclusive industrial economy, the third TAIC- 2019 is among the important platforms for discussion, networking and raising awareness on the global ICT affairs, business opportunities, knowledge and skills needed to cope with the dynamic digital economy.