AGRICULTURE Minister, Japhet Hasunga has praised Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (TaCRI) for its good work for coffee research. He said during familiarization tour of TaCRI results of coffee research should be distributed and disseminated to farmers in the country to enable them increase production from the current average of 55,000 metric tons annually to the anticipated 100,000 tons by 2023. "We have all seen how this Institute is producing new varieties of both Arabica and Robusta coffee seedlings which as we have been told increase production per unit area. If well disseminated and distributed to farmers these research results for sure may lead into turning our coffee cultivation from the convectional coffee production to commercialized coffee production," the minister said. He promised government assistance to TaCRI to increase production and distribution to farmers of the new varieties of Arabica and Robusta coffee seedlings now standing at 10 million annually to 20 million. With this in mind, he said there is need to increase deductions to TaCRI from coffee auction prices per kilogramme of coffee sold from the current 0.6 per cent to 1 per cent. Outlining ways to increase coffee productivity both in terms of quantity and quality, Hasunga called for the education of extension officers on the current good practices of coffee farming. He praised TaCRI for preparing and publishing books on how to produce both Arabica and Robusta coffee and Coffee Training Modules for Training of Trainers. He instructed the Tanzania Coffee Board (TCB) to prepare statistics for coffee farmers which will show their number, coffee production areas, how much farmers produce and what their needs. "The government urgently needs these statistics in order to formulate policies and ways of assisting farmers. Without such statistics the government cannot help or assist such farmers," he explained. To all coffee growing districts in the country numbering 41 in 15 regions, he urged respective district councils to plough back at least 20 per cent of Cess Levy derived from coffee sales rated at 3 per cent into improving coffee productivity. "You cannot go on milking a cow which you don't feed properly. District Councils should plough back a percentage of Cess Levy into developing and improving coffee productivity so as to get more of the Cess Levy," he said. On improving the rate of local consumption of coffee currently standing at 5 to 8 percent of the total coffee output, Hasunga urged the public to have the habit of drinking coffee and helping to create employment. Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner (RC), Anna Mghwira called for the mobilisation of funds the TaCRI to enable perform its functions properly. She was also impressed with the research work done at the institute and how it has disseminated results to farmers towards increasing productivity. TaCRI Chief Executive Director Dr Deusdedit Kilambo took time to give a history of his Institute which dates back to the year 2000 when stakeholders decided to establish it. The institute officially started operations in 2001 and by then coffee stakeholders were contributing 0.75 per cent of the prices of coffee per kilogram they received at coffee auctions to fund research work. Dr Kilambo said a total of 23 new varieties of coffee seedlings have been invented at TaCRI detailing them to be 19 of Arabica and 4 of Robusta coffee. "These new varieties as you have seen during the tour being produced through vegetative propagation at the clonal multiplication garden are resistant to the coffee deadly diseases namely Coffee Berry Disease (CBD) and Coffee Leaf Rust (CLR) for Arabica coffee and Coffee Wilt Disease (CWD) for Robusta coffee," he said, adding that same reduces production costs as they require less fungicides and herbicides which are very expensive. Not only that, these new varieties give higher yields per unit area, produce coffee with bigger bean sizes with good flavor, he said. With collaboration with TCB, TaCRI projects to produce and distribute to farmers across the country a total of 24.597 million of such seedlings within three years.