TANZANIA is set to add 5.2 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of natural gas deposits to raise estimated recoverable natural gas reserves to 62.2 trillion cubic feet (tcf), the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, has said. He said at the opening of the 3rd Oil and Gas Congress in Dar es Salaam yesterday that new discoveries of natural gas were from ongoing exploration activities in Ntorya in Ruvuma Basin in Mtwara Region, Ruvu in Coast Region and Western Songosongo in Lindi Region. “There is possible new discovery of 5.2tri cubic feet...we will be able to reach more than 60 trillion cubic feet,” said the minister at the meeting that had drawn global industrial players in the oil and gas sector. The minister said ongoing exploration activities at Ntorya in Ruvuma Basin show that there were possible natural gas deposits of 1.6 trillion cubic feet (tcf), while in Ruvu, Coast Region, there are possible estimates of 2.0 trillion cubic feet (tcf). Western Songosongo in Lindi Region had possible deposits of natural gas estimated at 1.3 trillioncubic feet, he revealed. The minister said the government was still in discussions with a group of foreign oil and gas companies for construction of a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant in Lindi and they hoped they would be concluded in the near future. A consortium of international oil companies are expected to start construction of a long-delayed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) project in 2022, the Minister for Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani, had said in Parliament in May. Norway’s Equinor, alongside Royal Dutch Shell, Exxon Mobil and Ophir Energy and Pavilion Energy, plan to build the onshore LNG plant in Lindi Region. “We are progressing very well...We understand it is a very huge investment and such dedication and commitment of the investors can’t be taken for granted,” he said. Dr Kalemani said the government was working with the Ugandan government on the East African Crude Oil Pipeline, a 1,443km crude oil export pipeline that will transport Uganda’s crude oil from Kabaale, Hoima in Uganda to the Chongoleani peninsula near Tanga Port in Tanzania. Works on the pipeline were reportedly suspended last month after Tullow Oil’s plan to sell a stake in the project to France’s Total and China’s CNOOC was called off. Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), which is one of the partners to the project, said last month that challenges facing the project were normal and the project would proceed according to the plan. The TPDC Managing Director, Mr James Mataragio, was quoted by the media as saying that EACOP partners were still discussing the challenges and they hoped to strike a deal. The 3rd Oil and Gas Congress organised by Ocean Business Partners and CWC Group enters its second and final day. The Ocean Business Partners CEO, Abdulsamad Abdulrahim, said the congress is expected to promote national content, create partnership between local entrepreneurs and international investors and build capacity of local investors.