NAIROBI, the largest city in Kenya, is, this year, celebrating 120 years of existence. Before 1899, Nairobi was a simple watering hole for nomadic Maasai herders, who named the hole, “Enkare Nyorobi” meaning “a place of cool waters. Nairobi’s counterpart city in Tanzania, Dar es Salaam (the abode of peace), is older by 33 years, having been established around 1866. Both cities have a similar litany of problems: rapidly growing unplanned areas and slums; regular flooding; unmanaged solid and liquid waste; unemployment; informal sector activities that have proved difficult to regulate; pollution; poor public transport; poor housing; unmanageable road traffic and congestion; crime; huge infrastructure and service deficits, and so on and so forth. Today, we look at urban sanitation in Dar es Salaam, as we join this writer who penned a Special Report titled: “Tackling Urban Sanitation Woes: the Case of Dar es Salaam City”, published in one of the English dailies. We empathize with the writer when it comes to the use of the words: sewage vs sewerage, and drain vs drainage. There is this large and multi-colour photograph accompanying the Report, whose caption reads as follows: “Houses in some areas of Dar es Salaam are so congested that ‘sewerage’ emptying trucks can’t pass through the narrow paths to reach homes and empty toilets”. What does “sewerage” mean? It means “the system by which sewage is carried away from houses, factories, institutions, etc, and is cleaned and made safe by adding chemicals to it”. This answer leads to another question: “What is “sewage”? The answer is: “Sewage” means “used water and waste substances that are produced by human bodies that are carried away from houses and factories through special underground pipes known as ‘sewers’”. Given that only around 10% of Dar es Salaam is connected to sewers, most liquid waste is captured on site by way of septic tanks, or, most prevalently, by way of pit latrines. These latter have to be emptied from time to time, and, given poor land use planning, solid waste emptying vehicles can not reach many areas. That is what our writer is complaining about. These vehicles are best called “sewage emptying trucks” rather than “sewerage emptying trucks”. Please note as well that both “sewage” and “sewerage” are uncountable nouns; thus there is nothing like sewages, or sewerages. What happens if these sewage emptying trucks cannot reach houses in slums? According to the writer: “The job has been left to labourers who are able, willing and ready to ‘empty’ ‘topped-up’ toilets by scooping faeces with their bare hands and cart ‘them’ in buckets to empty the contents in nearby streams”. The idea of “topped up toilets” is questionable; for, “to top up something” means, inter alia, to increase the amount of something to the level you want or need; like topping up your salary with side income. The writer was most probably thinking of latrines that are “filled-up”, rather than those which are “topped up”. This latter concept is difficult to grasp. Would you be topping-up the toilet if you make frequent visits there? The second, much smaller photograph accompanying the article, carries this caption: “A roadside trench in Dar es Salaam is filled with toilet waste. Many city residents have illegally connected waste water pipes to storm water ‘drainages’”. “Drainage” means the process by which water or liquid is carried away from an area”; “a system of drains”. “Drain” (as a noun), means “a pipe that carries away dirty water or other liquid waste”. While “drain” is countable (i.e. “drains” is in order), “drainage” is uncountable. Therefore “drainages” is not in order. The writer could have stuck to drains, i.e. “storm water drains”, instead of “storm water drainages”. The situation is bad, but there is hope. The Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA) said it was implementing different projects that are intended to increase the level of waste collection by 30 per cent by year 2020, ‘barely’ a few months away”. The adverb “barely” is not appropriate here. You could do without it altogether, or substitute it with say “only” or “just”! lusuggakironde@gmail.com