IN the recent past, probably until 2017, it was common to be greeted by a disgusting stench of decaying waste at dump sites, and other areas on the outskirts of the stone town, attracting hordes of flies. Residents and visitors, including tourists complained about the waste which was supposed to be removed or emptied at least once a day, but often left untouched for several days. Many residents, despite awareness campaign to stop inappropriate waste disposal, tossed the rubbish into open spaces. It had been horrible to live near a garbage site because of the odour, a threat to health. Waste collection had been constrained by a lack of equipment and funding for fuel and poor payment for cleaners. The Municipalities of Zanzibar has managed to remove or collect only half or less, of the 27,000 tonnes of garbage produced daily. The authorities had to outsource the work from the private sector, and also work with development partners in keeping the city clean. At Jumbi area on Tunguu road, ‘waste treatment centre’ is under construction, some equipment purchased, as awareness campaign for proper collection of rubbish widens. The campaign has been bearing fruits as people start to change their behaviour in handling wastes. Municipal authorities and environmentalists argue that behaviour change is crucial in managing wastes as they do not discard anywhere. Home or domestic wastes take the lead followed by rubbish from markets, and plastics (after use soft drinks, water, food stuff and garment). “At least we start to see our city is now clean in the morning. However, there is a lot to be done. Everyone must get involved voluntarily,” said Ms Rukia Mohamed, a resident in the stone town. Zanzibar town was upgraded to city last July. Residents of Shaurimoyo, a Shehia (the lowest Administrative Authority in the hierarchy of Regional Administration) in Urban District have moved fast in waste management. The efforts to help, behaviour change in Shaurimoyo, where residents are now properly handling wastes from their households, were done by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) - a research and advocacy organization based in New Delhi, India in collaboration with the Zanzibar Environmental Management Authority (ZEMA. It was a pilot project implemented through a combination of education/awareness, supply of equipment, job creation, and turned into a source of income where organic fertilizer is sold to farmers and establishment of waste disposal by-laws to punish people who litter the environment. The Minister of state- Office of the Second Vice President, responsible for environment Mr Mohamed Aboud Mohamed and the deputy Minister for Regional administration and Municipalities Mr Shamata Shaame Khamis praised the project saying it is worth being extended to other areas so that people can learn to handle waste. “It is possible to keep our environment clean if each of us show commitment,” Mr Mohamed says, adding that it is high time the success story at Shaurimoyo was shared with others so that people can keep learning from waste management. He said that as the private sector gets involved through municipal authority outsourcing the cleaning up of the city, and CSE helping to develop legislation on waste disposal in Zanzibar City, the government is sparing no efforts to achieve this goal as the city grows. The authorities also support that there is a need to improve the legal and policy frameworks for addressing wastes. Arguably there has been no law, and policy to restrict disposal of rubbish in public places as empties from food stuff, water bottles, and garments and even garbage from homes. The only law being applied is the environmental law which has clauses that restricts inappropriate disposal of wastes from industry and hospital and plastics. Under the supervision of CSE officers, the Municipal officers worked with the local communities in Shaurimoyo area from 2017 to last year when residents were trained about managing waste through segregation, with the main focus of moving the country towards a ‘Zero Landfill Island.’ Zero waste (landfill) is about reducing, and eventually completely eliminating, the amount of stuff that we send to disposal, and may also be explained as a philosophy that encourages the redesign of resource life cycles so that all products (wastes) are reused. No trash is sent to landfills or incinerators. Local leaders and residents happily took the waste management course serious during the ‘pilot project’ on ‘decentralised waste management,’ which may make the country clean. As a part of this pilot project, 200 households in Shaurimoyo compulsorily segregated waste into wet, dry and domestic hazardous waste. The wet or the biodegradable wastes were composted at source in pits while the dry waste was channelized to recyclers. The collector incentivized in this model for making efforts to collect segregated garbage from households, and only, the domestic hazardous waste were transported to the disposal facility. Mr Mzee Khamis Juma, Head of Town Planning and Construction, Urban Municipality, says Shaurimoyo should be quoted as an example of effective waste management and sanitation in Zanzibar, a model that can be replicated in other parts of the island. Mr Sheha Mjaja- Director General, ZEMA thanked CSE for the pilot, which has helped to transform the people as far as wastes handling is concerned arguing “Let us show commitment, in making Zanzibar clean at all the time.” CSE is involved in several initiatives on decentralized waste management in India and there on ground experience was instrumental in making this project a success. Ms Swati Singh Sambyal, Programme Manager, CSE, said that decentralized systems are “the need of the hour. The idea is to make the country a zero landfill island by adoption of local solutions, if this happens; it shall be the only island in Africa to have adopted a 100 per cent decentralized system for solid waste management.” Ms Sambyal said since the country relies heavily on tourism for its economy, keeping it clean is inevitable, also as the best way to avert some of the contagious diseases such as cholera. It is estimated that so far, 70-80 per cent of the municipal expenditure goes in collection and transportation, but the adoption of decentralized waste management systems are expected to cut down this cost to almost 20-30 per cent. She emphasized “Behaviour change is important. Time has come to take waste management in our own hands. It is garbage because we collect mixed waste, but if we segregate, and then everything is a resource. The process of segregation should start at home.” The CSE programme manager said the pilot could be replicated across Zanzibar, including commercial areas and hotels to make country a zero landfill island. The wastes in Zanzibar is mainly organic (86 per cent), whereas the remaining 14 per cent comprises of dry recyclable waste such as plastic, metals, textile, cardboard, glass and sanitary waste. During the implementation of the pilot project, local societies were distributed with one bin and two bags for each household along with pamphlets and IEC material (information, education & communication) with details on how to segregate. Wet or organic or biodegradable fraction such as vegetable and fruit peels, cooked food to be kept in the bin; Dry fraction or Recyclable resource such as plastic, paper, glass, metal, and others to be kept in bag; while the Domestic Hazardous waste like the expired medicines, chemicals, paints, sanitary waste were to be kept in bags for proper collection. With experience of Shaurimoyo, the municipality/ society/NGO takes the responsibility for door to door collection of segregated solid waste from the households and appropriate infrastructure for collection and transportation of segregated waste daily (by push-carts, trolley etc). It has been proposed that the collector will be incentivized for collection of segregated waste and will be liable to sell the segregated dry waste to the nearest recycler/dealer. On an average, around 70-90 household kilogrammes of wet waste can be generated from 100 households per-day (taking 1kg/ hh/day, 86 per cent as wet waste). Composing sites were set up in an area designated by the local authority having a capacity of 50 kg/unit. The plant can be either managed by the local authority or by the hotel industry or can be run on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. Cleanliness is also connected to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as it contributes to health goals and also has an impact on poverty (Goal 1) and creates more liveable cities (Goal 11). There are strong connections with the provision of clean and renewable energy (Goal 7). The pilot which ended early this year was implemented under the theme ‘LET’S MAKE CLEANLINESS A MOVEMENT IN ZANZIBAR’.