THREE officials with Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU), on Thursday were set free by the Kagera Resident Magistrate’s Court, after entering into pleabargaining agreement with the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to refund the government 124m/-they obtained under false pretences. Acting under amnesty granted by President John Magufuli to persons charged with economic offenses, the three officials are among the latest people facing economic sabotage and money laundering charges who have applied for plea bargaining to as to be released. State Attorney, Haruna Shomari named one of the officials who were facing Economic Case No 4/2018 as the former KCU Board Chairman, John Binunshu (83). Other co-accused with Binunshu were former KCU General Manager, Vedasto Ngaiza (76) and former Acting Chief Accountant, Bestina Rwebangira (60). Shomari told Kagera Resident Magistrate in-charge, John Kapokolo that the officials had already paid a total of 124m/- and had written a letter to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), showing their intention to confess to the crimes and be forgiven. “Your honour, under Section 91 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), Cap 20 the DPP has no intention to continue with prosecution of the case. We hereby enter a Nolle Prosequi plea and ask the court to drop the charges against the accused persons,” he said. Magistrate Kapokolo granted the prayer and immediately set free all the three accused persons. Shomari had earlier alleged before Resident Magistrate Kapokolo when the accused were arraigned for the first time on August 29, last year that on different dates during 2011, the three accused persons, being employed by the Kagera Cooperative Union (KCU), willfully occasioned a pecuniary loss to the Union amounting 124m/-. Other offenses which had faced them include misuse of public office, forgery, misuse of their positions and conspiracy to commit a felony. Judge Lilian Mashaka from the Economic Crimes Control Court set bail conditions that each accused should deposit cash amounting 20.6m/-or deposit a title deed of immovable property of same amount which should be certified by a government valuer. The accused should also have two reliable sureties who should sign a bond of 5m/-and should surrender their passports/ travel documents. They are also not allowed to travel outside Kagera Region without leave by the Bukoba Resident Magistrate’s Court. President John Magufuli received a list of 467 economic sabotage suspects who have opted to plead guilty to their charges and repay over 107bn/- for release from remand prison. During the dossier receipt at the State House in Dar es Salaam, President Magufuli extended the deadline for more seven days to allow other accused who could have failed to meet the initial deadline. The accused had to October 7, 2019 to submit their confessions in hand writing to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Dr Magufuli had on September 22, 2019, while swearing in various leaders whom he had appointed, advised the DPP to consider dropping charges facing economic crime suspects through the legal channels should the defendants confess their crimes and repay the loss involved. But, he warned that after expiry of the new deadline there will be no mercy for economic sabotage criminals, ordering the chief prosecutor tp press hard on their charges in courts.