A CALL has been made for sports stakeholders in the country to create special continuous programme to ensure that junior players are properly groomed until they reach their peak. This was said in Dar es Salaam by the national U-20 team Head Coach Zuberi Kwatila who insisted that proper guideline for young players should be made to help them climb to the senior team. Katwila guided the junior national team to the 2019 CECAFA U-20 glory after defeating Kenya 1-0 in the finals staged at FUFA Technical Centre in Njeru in Uganda last Saturday. "It becomes easy to nurture youths from one stage to another only if they grow up together all the way other than when you keep changing them," he said. He then commended the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for putting more weight on youth football development programmes saying it is a big step towards creating a competitive and strong national team in few years to come. "I think this trend of establishing different youth football leagues like Uhai Cup and others should be encouraged all over the country because that is where real talent is sourced and upgraded," Katwila said. Sharing a small secret of his success at the elapsed CECAFA competition, Katwila said patience and determination among his boys highly contributed to their perfect performance. "We psychologically prepared well the players such that they knew what kind of opponent they were facing in terms of style of play. This made us to defeat the hosts Uganda 4-2 something which many people doubted before the match," said him. He further disclosed that with Uganda, the case was a bit complex as they have made it big in youth football investment and the team they played against was the same which was featured in the past edition of U-17 AFCON contest which was held in Dar es Salaam. "We simply respected all our opponents throughout the competition regardless where they originated a thing that made us to excel in most matches we played," he narrated. Katwila seized the platform to encourage the U-20 team striker Kelvin John to aim high and thrive to get a club outside the country to facilitate his career. "I talk with him and many times, he says he wants to play professional football outside the country which is good for him and the age he has now makes him qualify to play even in the senior team. He needs to find a good team to play regularly," he said. He even revealed that if he (Kelvin) can be willing to join Mtibwa Sugar, he can surely be included in the team's first choice squad due to his potential. "I am ready to work with him since he is well disciplined and has something positive to offer to the team he can play for. At Mtibwa Sugar, he is warmly welcome and we have many young players there who can work well with him," Katwila who coaches Mtibwa Sugar said.