YOUNG Africans Assistant Coach, Noel Mwandila admitted that the team’s defence on Thursday league match against Polisi Tanzania did not function as a unit. Yanga laboured to salvage a point from the resilient Polisi Tanzania side at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Thursday following a 3-3 draw. The Moshi based team looked on the verge to hand the Dar es Salaam giants their second back to back Vodacom Premier League (VPL) defeat. Despite taking an early lead courtesy of the veteran player Mrisho Ngasa, the visitors looked composed hence succeeded to level the deficit before halftime and thereafter scored two quick goals in the second half to put the scoreline to 3-1. But, the Congolese import David Molinga (Falcao) responded swiftly to save what seemed to be a sinking ship, netting twice to enable the hosts bag one point from two matches played. At a media briefing, Mwandila said even when his side was one goal up early in the first half, they were not playing well in defence organisation. “Due to poor coordination at the back, we allowed them to equalise and gave them a chance to come back in the game. In the second, we conceded twice easily and after that, we had to fight hard to earn a point,” he said. He then revealed that they will go back to the drawing board to solve the problems before their Sunday’s clash against Coastal Union at the same venue. Asked whether the absence of Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera at the touchline had an impact to the team, he replied. “We applied his philosophy of football because he was present during training sessions and the boys followed his tactics.” On his part, Polisi Tanzania Assistant Coach, Selemani Matola said Yanga were just lucky on the day, otherwise, he was on the target to get all three points from them. “My players did a good job by implementing what I told them during the training on the battlefield. It was not easy at all but bagging one point away against Yanga is not that bad,” he said. He then shared his little secret why he always give Yanga a tough ride saying they do not change their style of play hence it becomes east to trouble them. Expressing his satisfaction after scoring the league’s first hat trick of the season, Ditram Nchimbi said it was a dream come true to score three goals against Yanga. “I have been playing against Yanga for a long time but never scored a hat-trick. Today (Thursday), I am happy to accomplish the dream I had for a long time,” he said. Also, the team’s boss, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Simon Sirro who watched the entire clash called on Tanzanians to back up Polisi Tanzania team saying it is theirs. “We want to show people that we are not only concerned in protecting their lives and property, but that we are also good in sports,” he said in an interview after the game.