BREAKING Egyptian jinx is the task heaped on Tanzanian envoys in the continental level showpiece Young Africans after the play-off draw placed them against Pyramids of Cairo. The Confederation Cup draw released on Wednesday night by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) make Yanga to clear Pyramids hurdle to make it into the group stage. Yanga who reached the playoffs after being demoted from CAF Champions League following a 3-2 aggregate loss to Zesco United of Zambia last month, have been pooled against the Cairo- based Pyramids FC. The Zambian giants’ Zesco have been pooled in group A of the Champions League which will also feature Angola’s Primeiro de Agosto, TP Mazembe and Zamalek/ Generation. As the draw for the loser between Zamalek and Generation Foot of Senegal in the Champions League playoffs was also disclosed, and they will be relegated to Confederation Cup, to encounter Benin’s ESAE FC. Being pooled against an Egyptian most often brings shiver to the majority of Tanzanian football fans due to the poor record of their team whenever it comes to play against teams from Egypt. As some of them have shown their worries if their team can make it past the Egyptian side that reached a playoff stage after a 2-1 aggregate win over Algerian side Belouizdad last month. Despite the doubt from some of their supporters, the team’s technical bench under Congolese tactician, Mwinyi Zahera said earlier before the draw that they were ready to take on any side even if it comes from north African countries which have been very hard to beat. Zahera claimed that they have learnt a lot after being eliminated from the African Champions League’s second round, hence they will make sure they have rectified their weaknesses to post positive result and cruise into the group stage. While Yanga are looking to plot the downfall of the Egyptian side which is under the tutelage of the former Uganda Cranes coach, Sé bastien Desabre, Pyramids FC claimed that they have been handed an easy draw in the playoff round. However Pyramids Sporting Director, Abdul Aziz Abdul Shafy whose side is appearing in one of the continental’s two major football showpieces disclosed that they respect their opponents because in Africa there are no small or big teams. “We respect Young Africans much, they are a team with great history. In Africa now there are no small or big teams. We take our campaign game by game and want to reach as far as possible in our debut season,” he disclosed. Yanga who have been posting unsatisfactory results at home will host the Pyramids at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the first-leg playoff game on 27 October, with the return match taking place in Cairo on 3 November. Another Egyptian side in the round of 32 of the CAF Confederation Cup, Masry who also claimed to have easy draw will have an easy mission as they will face Cote d’or from Seychelles, which suffered an embarrassing 11-1 aggregate defeat against South African’s giants Sundowns in the Champions League. Meanwhile Kenyan giants Gor Mahia and Bandari FC have been pooled against DC Motema Pembe from DRC and Horoya AC from Guinea and both sides, similarly to Yanga, will play their first match at home. Uganda’s Proline FC have been pooled against Libya’s El Nasr. Bandari who tomorrow will face Tanzania Mainland League champions Simba in a build up match at the National Stadium booked the knockout date after beating US Ben Guerdane of Tunisia in a 3-2 aggregate win and now have been pulled against Yanga former striker Herrittier Makambo side which was dropped to the Confederation Cup after they were beaten in the Champions League 5-2 on penalties by JS Kabylie of Algeria.