TAIFA Stars have moved by two positions in the latest FIFA rankings released by the World football governing body with g ood results in Africa Nations Championship (CHAN) campaign playing a big role in a climb. Stars, who last week managed to grab a ticket play in the 2020 CHAN finals in Cameroon, defeated and eliminated Sudan with a 2-1 victory in their return leg held in Omdurman, Sudan to become the first nation to book a ticket for the finals, has climbed up two positions from 135th position last month to 133rd this month. The victory against Sudan, as well a barren draw with Rwanda in a friendly match lined up on FIFA calendar, may have also contributed to climb in rankings as both nations are superior to Tanzania in the rankings. While we made improvement globally, their latest opponents Sudan have not moved up from their previous position, they are still ranked 128th whereas Rwanda who have also booked a ticket for the CHAN finals by beating Ethiopia, have climbed one position from 130th to 129th place. Stars have gained additional point after collecting 1,084 points compared to 1,083 points garnered in the last month rankings released on September 24. Neighbours Uganda, like Rwanda, have climbed up one position and continue to remain the top among members of CECAFA. The East Africa’s football powerhouse are placed 79th globally, followed by Kenya who are 108th after going down by one position. Kenya are followed by Sudan and Rwanda respectively while Taifa Stars are placed fifth in the region followed by Burundi who are placed on 143rd, ahead of Ethiopia, South Sudan, Djibouti, Somalia and Eritrea respectively. Senegal remains the top ranked African country despite not gaining any points in the recent rankings, they are still positioned on 20th slot globally while Tunisia as well, remained static at 29th and second best ranked country in the continent. Nigeria who moved into Africa’s top three after scaling four places up to 44th in the last listing, they continue to settle at the same position after failing to gain a point this time. Algeria who are placed 38th globally are fourth-placed continental wise. Meanwhile, Belgium continue to settle at the top spot followed by France, Brazil and England, that means there are no changes in the world top four nations. Belgium (1st, unchanged) still lead the way from France (2nd, unchanged) and Brazil (3rd, unchanged), although top-ten rivals Uruguay (5th, up 1), Croatia (7th, up 1), Argentina (9th, up 1) have at least edged closer to the summit. But the most significant rises are to be found further down the ranking, where the in-form quartet of Ukraine (22nd, up 3), Japan (28th, up 3), Turkey (32nd, up 4) and Russia (37th, up 5) are among the notable climbers. Jumps of ten or more places have also been made by a clutch of teams outside the top 50, namely Nicaragua (137th, up 11), South Sudan (162nd, up 11), Barbados (160th, up 10) and São Tomé and Príncipe (180th, up 10). And there is fresh celebrate, too, for Kosovo (114th, up 5), who can again reflect with pride on their best Ranking position to date. The next FIFA/Coca-Cola World Ranking will be published on 28 November 2019.