MUHIMBILI National Hospital (MNH) has recorded a milestone in kidney transplant after successfully attending to 51 patients, including a nine year old since its inception in 2017. In this first phase, the patients were able to undergo the surgery categorized as being in the low risk bracket, and appealed to relatives and parents to come to their rescue by donating the organ. “In the two years since the beginning of the treatment, we have learned that such treatment involving transplant can be safely, efficiently and successfully done in the country,” said MNH Director General, Professor Lawrence Maseru, as he assured the public of their service in the country. He explained that in the beginning they needed support from a team of experts from abroad, saying: “Today we are left with only two experts from abroad as our team is becoming independent.” The medic further said that before a patient goes for the surgery, he/she is locally prepared by the hospital’s team professionally as well as his/her donor in rigorous lab tests. Expounding, Professor Maseru noted that conducting such a procedure locally has saved the country 4.590 bn/-in treatment cost that could have been spent on them abroad. “On average the entire treatment costs 30 m/- on a patient locally and for the 51 patients it’s 1.5bn/-. But if they were to go to India, the government would have spent approximate 6bn/-. “For the past 15 years the government has been able to send 150 patients abroad, which is an average of 10 patients per year. “However, in the period of two years we have been able to treat 51 patients, estimated as 25 patients per year or 34 percent of the patients sent abroad.” “This shows that we have extended and opened this service locally to Tanzanians with ease. With the success, we have proven that kidney transplant is possible and we intend to increase the number of more specialized services such as cochlear implant, interventional radiology,” added the Director General. Equally, he remarked that MNH expects by November to begin bone marrow transplant, saying: “With the tremendous experience we have in kidney transplant, it is our belief that this will also be a success.” In a related development, the medic pointed out that the hospital is also in its final stage before it starts Invitro Ferterlisation (IVF) to help spouses get children in failed conjugal relations.