THE fate of the case that involves three Chinese nationals, Xiao Shaodan, Chen Jianlin and Liang Hu, who are charged with leading organized crime involving 1,023 pieces of elephant tusks valued at over 7bn/- is in the hands of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). State Attorney Elia Athanas, for the prosecution, told Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam that the police file of the case has been taken to the DPP for his decision on what should be the way forward of the matter. “The case file is currently with the DPP for his decision. We pray for another mention date, pending the decision of the DPP,” the trial attorney requested. However, before the magistrate acting on the prosecution’s request, Advocate Hassan Kiango rose up and raised a complaint. He told the court that his clients had been in remand for the past three years and they were facing another trial in Mbeya where they were acquitted. They were later held inappeal that was pending before the Court of Appeal. According to him, the appeal has already been determined and his client was found innocent. He, therefore, appealed to the prosecution to release the accused persons forthwith, since the current charges they are facing were framed up. However, the trial attorney hit back, vehemently disputing the submissions presented by the advocate. “The prosecution’s position in this matter is that investigations into the case are not complete, as the case file is still with the DPP,” the state attorney submitted. After considering the submissions by the parties, the magistrate decided to adjourn the case for another mention on October 10, 2019. Lawyers say that three things could happen when the prosecution’s case file is taken to the DPP. He may draw new charges for prosecution of accused persons depending on available evidence or return the file to the investigative machinery with directives of carrying out further investigations on some aspects. Furthermore, the DPP could enter a nolle prosequi certificate, which is a formal notice to abandon the charge (s) in favour of the accused persons if the evidence brought before him was insufficient to mount their prosecution. Nolle prosequi is a declaration made by a prosecutor in a criminal case either before or during trial, resulting in the prosecutor declining to further pursue the case against the accused. The declaration may be made because the charges cannot be proved because vital witnesses have become unavailable or uncooperative, the evidence is too weak to carry the burden of proof and the evidence is fatally flawed in the light of the claims that are brought, among other reasons. In the case, the prosecution charges the three Chinese to have committed the offence of leading organized crime on diverse dates between January and November 2013 in Dar es Salaam together with other persons who are still at large. According to the prosecution, the accused persons intentionally organized and furthered the objective of a criminal racket by acquiring, processing and transporting from Tanzania Mainland to Zanzibar government trophies, which are 1,023 pieces of elephant tusks, valued at 7,480,125,000/-. The court was told further that the accused persons allegedly engaged in the trophies, the property of the United Republic of Tanzania, without having a permit from the Director of Wildlife. In the Mbeya case, the three Chinese were charged alongside another Chinese national, Song Lei, for unlawful dealing and possession of 11 rhino horns worth 902m/- smuggled into Tanzania from Malawi. The trio was acquitted, but Lei was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in jail and payment of over a 6bn/- fine.