PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa will today represent President John Magufuli at the award giving ceremony for the 14th Presidential Manufacturer of the Year Awards organized by the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI). Speaking in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday, CTI Executive Director Mr Leodgar Tenga, said the Premier will represent President Magufuli who is the patron of the manufacturers’ umbrella organization. Mr Tenga, a former president of the Tanzania Football Federation, said that CTI has used rigorous criteria in determining best industrialists for various categories this year. He mentioned some of the criteria used as ethical performance of respective industries as well as observance of health and safety at work places and gender balance. “In determining the winners, CTI also took into consideration other factors such as technological innovation, the volume of exports by respective industry as well as corporate social responsibility,” he explained. Through the vetting procedures, manufacturers submitted participation forms to CTI after which manufacturers’ apex body appointed independent evaluators who made physical visits at the industries to confirm information availed on the application forms. Mr Tenga was highly impressed that many manufacturers have turned out for the competition this year, noting that the awards require manufacturers to commit themselves on transparency and providing all information of their plants. “The number of participants has increased from 47 manufacturers last year to 61 this year. This is an indication that many industries are eager to participate in the competition,” he stated. The award giving ceremony will be held in Dar es Salaam tomorrow during a dinner to be hosted by Premier Majaliwa on behalf of President Magufuli who is the patron of the manufacturers’ umbrella organization. Among others, the awards are aimed at promoting efficiency, good corporate governance and transparency in the manufacturing sector as well as recognizing and cherishing best practitioners in the sector. The annual event was established in the year 2005 to recognize best practicing industries in various sectors of the economy.