TWO former Simba Sports Club senior leaders, Chairman, Evance Aveva and his Vice-Chairman Geoffrey Nyange have also responded to the presidential amnesty by petition the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) with a view of ending the 600m/-trial against them. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, told Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday when the case came for mention that the two accused persons have already written letters to the DPP. According to him, the letters for initiating plea-bargaining agreements were being worked upon by the DPP’s Office and the court would later on be informed of the outcome. He requested, therefore, the court to adjourn the case to another date. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the case for mention on October 18, 2019. In the trial, the two leaders of the “Msimbazi Street” Club are charged jointly with Simba’s Registration Committee Chairman, Zacharia Hans Poppe. Recently, the court found with case to answer on 300,000 US dollars (about 600m/-) fraud counts all the accused persons, but acquitted Aveva and Nyange on offences of money laundering they were facing. The prosecution was aggrieved by the decision and decided to appeal to the High Court. Facts of the case show on March 12, 2016, the Club was paid 319,212 US dollars by Etoile Sportive Du Sahel, a sports club based in Tunisia. Such amount was international transfer fees of Emmanuel Okwi to Etoile Sportive Du Sahel. The amount was credited in Simba Sports Club bank account held at CRDB Bank Plc Azikiwe Branch where Aveva and Nyange were signatories. Upon credit of the amount, on March 15, 2016, a sum of 300,000 US dollars was transferred to Aveva’s personal account held at Barclays Bank. Such transfer was effected using transfer of fund request form dated March 15, 2016 which was submitted to CRDB Bank, Azikiwe Branch by (Aveva). This form was signed by both (Aveva and Nyange). The payment details in the form were loan repayment,” reads part of the memorandum of facts It stated by the prosecution that such transfer of money had no authorization from the Club Executive Committee and that Simba Sports Club has never borrowed the said money from Aveva. The prosecution further told the court that upon the credit of the amount into personal account of Aveva, who is the sole signatory, the money was withdrawn in cash in different lots by him. Out of the 300,000 US dollars, Aveva allegedly transferred 62,183 to Ninah Ghuanzhour Trading Company Limited as cost for purchasing artificial turf for the club’s play ground at Bunju, Kinondoni Municipality in Dar es Salaam. According to the prosecution, 50,000 US dollars was paid to Lauwo, who is owner of Ranky Infrastructure and Engineering Limited as cost for the construction of the playing ground. It is alleged that Hans Poppe had hired the company to carry out the construction. Notwithstanding use of some money for the purchase of the artificial turf and engagement of the company, the prosecution alleges that Aveva and Nyange could not account for 187,817 US dollars which was credited in the account of Aveva. For the purpose of clearing the imported artificial turf from Dar es Salaam Port, the three accused persons made false invoice and it was submitted to the Tanzania Revenue Authority. Such invoice shows that the value of the artificial turf was 40,577 US dollars.