…five referral, two district hospitals connect to telemedicine hubs SEVEN hospitals in the country will be connected to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and Muhimbili Orthopedic Institute (MOI) as telemedicine hubs to improve and simplify health service delivery. The hospitals under the envisaged connection are Chato and Nzega District Hospitals as well as Morogoro, Benjamin Mkapa, Tanga, Katavi and Ruvuma referral hospitals and the hubs’ services are scheduled to start before the year end. The move is part of the government’s efforts, through the Universal Communication Service Access Fund (UCSAF) in collaboration with other stakeholders, to improve health services provision to all, especially in rural areas. UCSAF Acting Director Justina Mashiba, speaking at an information and communication (ICT) training to over 1,000 primary and secondary school teachers in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, said: “Introduction of the fund was all about ensuring that all Tanzanians have easy access to communication. Health sector is one of our coverage areas through this telemedicine system to timely serve all people in need of health services without travelling long distances to national hospitals.” She said health service providers at the connected districts and referral hospitals will be recording patients’ information and sending them to the hubs— MNH or MOI—to let specialists make diagnosis and then resend the results with descriptions on the best treatment of the patients. The system is also expected to address shortage of health experts at various hospitals in the country, including surgeons, Ms Mashiba said at the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT) where the training was hosted. She said UCSAF had released over 200m/- for ICT trainings to teachers, with DIT, University of Dodoma and Mbeya University of Science and Technology hosting the courses. The trainings among others aim at imparting teachers with ICT-related knowledge to help them deal with various challenges, including fixing the device technical problems, in the use of computers in their institutions. Speaking at the training, Education, Science and Technology Minister Professor Joyce Ndalichako praised the move, saying the training came at the right time as Tanzania struggles to switch to industrial economy. “I’m glad to hear that UCSAF has been sponsoring this kind of trainings for three consecutive years now, giving computer devices to all beneficiary schools. This will enable them to continue practicing and disseminating the knowledge to other people in the surrounding communities to enable many Tanzanians to cope with this dramatic change in science and technology,” she said