THE Southern Agricultural Corridor of Tanzania (Sagcot) has expressed gratitude to the government and its partners for building physical infrastructure and making rural Tanzania conveniently reachable. Sagcot is tasked to transform agriculture and increase disposable income of peasants in the southern highlands regions of Tanzania. Sagcot Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Geoffrey Kirenga told reporters here that provision of power and good roads to villages has transformed rural Tanzania, making rural communities richer than was the case in the past. “In southern Tanzania the roads have opened up rural remote villages making lives of communities better by accessing goods and services that were hard to get in the past. Now crops can be transported to markets and electricity has motivated agro-processors to start or multiply industries in villages,” he explained, paying tribute to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) for taking power to many remote villages. He said having right infrastructure and access to markets are important elements in making Tanzania with a middle-income economy possible. Tanzania wants to become an industrial country by end of next year and a middleincome industrial nation by 2025. “Iringa and Mbeya regions are good examples with opened up villages. In those two regions the situation is good. Peoples’ lives are changing very fast with persuading bright future prospects,” he reported, adding that emergence of physical infrastructure has increased job opportunities in rural areas and crops were now reaching markets. He praised the Tanzania Research Institute (TARI) for taking to farmers appropriate crop seeds, enabling them to increase harvests. Seeds from TARI have increased yields in Ihemi Cluster, Mr Kirenga reported. Sagcot’s Coordinator of Partners, Ms Rehema Kibwana the institution was currently working with 122 partners from the public and private sectors. She said the biggest consideration in picking a partner was the partner’s ability to provide services that would change lives of peasants