UNITED States Ambassador Fund for HIV/Aids Relief (AFHR), yesterday gave 574m/-as a grant to 11 registered civil societies, nonprofit and faith based organizations from across Tanzania to implement projects that address HIV/Aids in the country. The receipt projects focus on key strategic priorities, including improved treatment literacy, reduction of stigma and discrimination, innovation solutions to prevent gender- based violence (GBV), accessing support related to GBV and reaching men with HIV, testing and linkage to treatment. Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, United States Charge d'Affaires Dr Inmi Patterson said that the grant which comes from the US Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), will be used to address issues related to HIV/ AIDS in local communities in Tanzania. "The United States is proud to continue the tradition of partnering with these organizations in pursuit of Tanzania’s HIV epidemic control goals. We promised to collaborate with local organizations in Tanzania to create awareness to community members and capacity building through various programmes," Dr Patterson said. She said that the aim of PEPFAR is to help Tanzania to achieve the 95-95-95 goals. Patterson mentioned the awardees of the grants as Bakwata National HIV/AIDS program, Chimabasanaa, Tanzania Data Lab (dLab), foundation for development (FODEO), Jitambue Lembuka Tanzania (JLT), Jumuiya ya kuelimish athari ya dawa za kulevya, Ukimwi na mimba katika umri mdogo and Kigoma Alliance for Community Needs (KACON). Others are Muungano wa vikundi vya Maendeleo ya wanawake Kamachumu (MUVIMAWAKA), Njombe Southern Highland Association (NSHDA), Parakuiyo Pastoralists Indigenous Community Development Organizatiom (PAICODEO) and Tanzania Network of women living with HIV and AIDS (TNW+). On the side of BAKWATA, National HIV/AIDS Program director Ms Asina Shenduli said the program will help the spiritual leaders to built ability to fight against oppression to people with HIV and also training that will create awareness. ''We will train 150 Muslim leaders – sheikhs, sheikhats, imams, madrasa teachers, Muslim religious women leaders, Muslim youth leaders and People Living with HIV (PLHIV) from selected Muslim communities,” she further explained. She added that the program will be undertaken in Kigoma Municipal Council, Uvinza and in rural areas in Kigoma. The Ambassador’s Fund for HIV/AIDS Relief started in 2009 and has provided grants to more than 130 communitybased and nonprofit organisations in Tanzania.