MORE young people in Kigoma Region will benefit from 'My youth, my power' project after the Irish Aid and United Nations Populations Fund (UNFPA) inked the renewal of their strong partnership through a 2.5bn/-injection. This is the second year in the four year project that is designed to support implementation of Tanzania government’s health sector strategic plan, particularly to strengthen the health system, explained UNFPA Representative, Ms Jacqueline Mahon, at the Irish Embassy in Dar es Salaam yesterday. "From its conception in 2018, we have seen tangible progress in strengthening sexual and reproductive health service and support systems that respond to the unique needs of some of the marginalized and vulnerable adolescents and young people in Tanzania," she said, adding: In the first year of the project, more than 6,000 adolescents and youth have accessed the three youth centers that we set up in Nyarugusu camp." She explained that the centers provide an opportunity for young people to access services and information that allow them to make healthy and informed choices about their sexual and reproductive health that shape their future. Ms Mahon elaborated that UNFPA also partners with the local community to make motherhood safer. "In collaboration with the regional and local government, we have identified nine health facilities in project sites that are in the process of being renovated and equipped to provide quality reproductive, maternal and child health services that will improve health outcomes for young women in Kigoma." She further explained that UNFPA's support to adolescent girls empowers them with the tools and knowledge they need to manage their menstruation with dignity. "Our target is also focused on first time young mothers who are all too often isolated and stigmatized by their communities. We are building their confidence to take the lead among their peers in the community," she remarked. UNFPA's core mission in Tanzania is to ensure that every pregnancy is wanted, every child is safe and every young person's potential is fulfilled as prioritized in the 2030 agenda which pledges to leave no one behind, she stressed as she appreciated the support of Irish aid. Irish Ambassador to Tanzania Paul Sherlock explained that Kigoma was chosen because the region hosts about 230,000 refugees in Kasulu, Kakonko and Kibondo districts; and two thirds of the regions' population is below the age of 24, having the most marginalised and vulnerable young people in the country. "We recognize the significant role that reproductive health, women's empowerment and gender equality play in sustainable development, and accordingly, the health of women and children is central. Support to UNFPA is completed by other contributions towards the healthcare system in Kigoma through UNICEF and UNHCR, with an approximate of 13bn/-," he sai