TANZANIA will participate in a two-day investment forum to market investment opportunities in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) member states with diplomatic missions in China. The Yangtze River International Forum in Jiangsu province on October 28 and 29, this year, is expected to attract nearly 300 decision makers from international organisations, government entities, think tanks and enterprises. “This is a high level forum that has been organised specifically to attract investors from countries,” said Tanzania’s Ambassador to China Mbelwa Kairuki. Ambassador Kairuki is also lined up to issue the opening remarks to the forum because Tanzania is currently occupying the SADC presidency. The forum organisers— Jiangsu Association for Friendship and International Exchanges (JAFIE), Nanjing University and SADC countries—said in a statement here over the weekend that the seminar will provide critical insights in SADC and solutions to the challenges that arise from financing, risk management and cultural integration for Jiangsu’s outbound investment. “After coming back from SADC meeting in Dar es Salaam recently, it’s now time to keep promoting all investment and business opportunities available in our region to Chinese,” said the ambassador. Jiangsu province is well recognised for its growing economy, which is the second highest with official statistics putting its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at 1.4 trillion US dollars. The forum is part of continued efforts by both Chinese government and African countries to implement the resolutions made during the sixth Summit of the Forum for China Africa Cooperation (Focac) 2019 where all participants made commitment to build the China-Africa relation into even a stronger community with a shared future. During the 2018’s FOCAC, Chinese President Xi Jinping announced that his government will issue a total of 60 billion dollars to 53 African countries. The money included 15 billion dollar grants, 20 billion dollar interest free and concessional loans, 10 billion dollar special fund for development financing and 5 billion dollar financing funds for imports from Africa. The Chinese companies also were encouraged to make at least 10 billion dollars of investment in Africa within a three-year period.