THE Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Hamisi Kigwangalla is expected to lead thousands of participants of the Rock City Marathon scheduled to take place on October 20th this year at the Rock City Mall, in Mwanza. According to a statement issued yesterday in Dar es Salaam by the Chairman of the Rock City Marathon’s Steering Committee Clement Mshana, the participation of Minister Kigwangalla goes hand in hand with the participation of other senior government officials from the Lake Zone regions including Mwanza Regional Commissioner John Mongella who has already confirmed to take part in the 42 km race. “The participation of the Minister responsible for tourism is backed by the race’s core agenda which is to promote tourism specifically in the Lake region through sport,” he said. Rock City Marathon has increasingly gained popularity with the support from the Ministry of Natural Resources, The Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), the Tanzania National Park (TANAPA), the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), and Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS). Other sponsors and partners include TIPER, Pepsi, Lis Law Chambers & Consultants, The Tanzanian National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), CF Hospital, Mwanza Water, Pigeon Hotel, Metro FM, The Cask and Grill, SDN and Garda World Security Company. “The Lake Zone has got many touristic attractions that must be promoted internationally and we believe that RCM can help towards achieving this goal, especially since from this year and for the first time in its history, the marathon will involve a full marathon that is a 42 km race and thus incorporated into the Athletic International calendar,” he said. He mentioned some of the attractions found in the Lake Zone that include the Saanane Island, the Sukuma Museum, beautiful beaches of the Lake Victory and its local residents’ cultural heritage. Regarding the race’s prize, Mshana said the winners of the full marathon category for both men and women will take home 4m/- each, while the second placed athletes will receive Tshs 2 million while the third placed will earn 1m/-. “For the Marathon and half marathon categories, prize money will be awarded to the top ten male and female finishers” he mentioned while adding the 1st place male and female finishers of the 21 km category will receive 2m/- each, with 2nd place getting 1m/-and 3rd placed winner 700,000/-. Mshana said winners of 5km corporate and albinism race for both men and women, will receive certificates of participation while prize money will be rewarded to people with albinism. On the registration of the race Mshana urged participants to continue on registering through various registrations centres located in Mwanza, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Coast and Arusha regions. "Currently the registration for the race continues in various centres in Mwanza (Rock City Mall, Afro Twist Gym), Dodoma (Shabiby Bus Terminal), Dar es Salaam (Shamo Tower, Imalaseko Super Market ), Helena Fashion- Dar Free Market), Arusha, and Bagamoyo in the Coast Region.’’ “Registration can also be done online through the Rock City Marathon website www. rockcitymarathon.co.tz. ‘’ he mentioned.