CHINA Federation of Internet Societies (CFIS) has called on the Tanzania government to use the internet to spread the excellent culture of mankind and promoting positive spirit. The call was made in Dar es Salaam on Monday during a China-Tanzania Cyber Cultural Exchange (CFIS) meeting. CFIS Secretary-General, Ms Zhao Hui said that any country can show its unique style to the world through the internet. “Through a short video Chinese people can enjoy the magnificent scenery of the Serengeti grassland while young people in Tanzania can understand the taste and fashion of their counterparts in China,” she noted. Ms Hui explained that CFIS will sustain its role as well as seeking deeper cooperation with internet firms in both countries. CFIS is a non-profit social organization voluntarily formed by a social organisation related to cyber security and information technology in China. Since its establishment in 2018, they have been working on spreading positive energy on the internet, participating in the comprehensive management of internet ecology, protecting national cyber security, promoting the development of information technology, digital economy and conducting international exchange and cooperation in the internet field. On his part, Chinese Embassy Cultural Counsellor, Mr Gao Wei, explained that they had been striving to consolidate the relationship between the two countries in various sectors and that cooperation was growing rapidly. He said that he would never forget the cooperation initiated since the days of Tanzania’s founder President, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Chinese leader Mao Tse-Tung, which was crucial to the construction of the 1,860 kilometre long Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA). Mr Hui further explained that they had been involved in the education sector by sponsoring Tanzanians to study in China, noting that this year’s number had doubled to 260 over last year’s. “The government of China has exceeded its investment in Tanzania; we want our friendship to be better; let us consolidate it,” he remarked.