KELVIN John’s goal helped Tanzania U-20 national side progress to CECAFA U-20 finals following a 2-1 victory over Sudan at Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu yesterday. The semifinal victory enabled the Zuberi Katwila’s charges to set a final date with Kenya at the same venue on Saturday. Kenya who drew with Tanzania 2-2 in their group stage fixture fought hard to secure a ticket after stamping a 1-0 win over hard fighting Eritrea in the second semi final game held at the FUFA Technical Centre in Njeru. The final is predicted to be tough as the both sides reached the final from the same group B. Tanzania topped the group while Kenya finished second despite tying with Tanzania in both points and goals for and against. The upcoming evergreen Heroes striker John scored the winner seconds before the halftime break to give Tanzania a comfortable 2-0 against the Sudanese who seemed to have failed to contain their opponents pressure in the first half. Before John doubled the Tanzania’s lead in the 45th minute of the game, it was right back Patrick Mwenda who broke the deadlock in the 36th minute with a screamer from outside the box which sailed untouched into the back of the net. Mwenda met a rebound from Sudan goalkeeper who had punched away his free kick on the right flank and tapped it into the goal leaving the Sudanese shot stopper helpless. The two sides went into the break with Heroes on the lead, but in the second half Sudan who were looking to win the competition, fought back to rescue the situation and fulfill their dream to play in the final. Sudan returned completely a different side in the second half, looking to settle the matter and Musab Elsidiq was denied by the solid Heroes defence before later Ahmed Ali missing a free header off a free kick from Ali Osama Mohamed. And in the 57th minute they managed to pull one back through Mohamed Abbas Namir, but Heroes held on to ensure their opponents do not create create dangerous moves. Apart from managing to put their side at the bay, Tanzanian players constantly raided Sudan’s goal’s, none of the attempts gave them the third goal. Kelvin John almost did it in the mid of the second half, but luck didn’t stand on his way. The Tanzania U-20 team coach, Zuberi Katwila introduced in Ali Shomari for Tepsi Theonassy in the 72nd minute in efforts to seek the third goal as well defending their narrow lead. Tanzania who emerged the group B leaders, book their place in the knockout stage after beating hosts Uganda 4-2 goals in the quarterfinals and yesterday were too good for Sudan to secure their place in the final. In the second semi finals between Kenya and Eritrea which saw the two battling hard for the remaining ticket. Eritrea were the first to knock their opponents’ door in the 25th minute, but Ismail Sitan Jahar wasted a good chance to put his side ahead after his strike was too easy for goalkeeper Brian Bwire. Kenya fired back strongly and could have scored in 41st and 45th minutes respectively, but they raids didn’t yield fruits. Eritrean goalkeeper, Kibron Haile made a fine save to deny Patrick Otieno and later Benson Ochieng header hit the crossbar to deny the Kenyans the chance of going into the halftime leading.