NKASI District Commissioner (DC), Rukwa Region, Mr Said Mtanda , has implemented President John Magufuli’s directive by paying a widow, Ms Felista Mkomo, 7.5 m/-after she complained that the leadership did little or nothing to bring back her 25 cattle stolen by a person known to the district authorities. Ms Mkomo complained to President Magufuli who was on a tour of Rukwa early this week that authorities in Nkasi District released the thief who stole her 25 cattle under dubious circumstance. It was at that juncture that President Magufuli ordered DC Mtanda and Nkasi OCD to pay the widow cash amounting to 15m/-in compensation for her 25 cattle since the woman had reported the case to them. Rukwa Regional Police Commander (RPC), Mr Mathias Nyange ordered the former Nkasi District Police Commander (OCD) David Mutasya to compensate the widow the remaining 7.5m/- for his laxity to handle the matter properly. While addressing a public rally at thesmall town of Namanyere recently, president Magufuli ordered DC Mtanda and RPC Nyange to compensate the widow 12.5 m/-and another 2.5m/-for disturbance, amounting to 15m/-in grand total within five days which expired yesterday on Saturday. “Yesterday (Thursday) I called the window and gave her 7.5m/- because the president directed DC (Mtanda) and RPC (Nyange) to compensate the widow 15m/-. But I uncovered that not all the 25 stolen cattle were hers, because they belonged to four people, including herself” added the DC. He named three out of four people who were owners of the stolen cattle as the widow, Felista Mkomo, Evodi Msemakweli and Silvia. “I summoned all of them and compensated the widow 7.5m/-, but I instructed her that each person whose cattle were stolen should be refunded the money so that they can purchase other cattle to replace the stolen ones. It was obvious the president did not know that the 25 heads of cattle were property of four different people... because the animals were kept in one place,” added the DC. He further said that citizens should not translate that the president had taken them to task because he hates them “Not at all, it does not mean that the president does not like us, but has given us time to learn on the best way of solving problems facing citizens on time, or else he could have axed us (DC and RPC) from duties” added the DC.