BEST Africa amateur lady golfer, Madina Iddi hit form to help Tanzania take an early lead in the first round of the East & Central Africa Regional Golf Challenge Trophy (ECAACT) that started Thusday in Uganda. The three-day biannual championship that teed off at the par 71 Entebbe Golf Club in Uganda yesterday, saw Tanzania taking a 9-shot lead. Report from Uganda shows that, Iddi who won an individual top prize at the All Africa Challenge Trophy (AACT) in Accra, Ghana last year, grossed the day’s best score of 76 strokes for her country. National team captain Hawa Wanyeche added 79 gross while Angel Eaton carded 80 to earn Tanzania an aggregate 235 strokes. The total score helped Tanzania to start at the helm in the field of three teams. Another national team member Neema Olomi carded 82 gross noncount score. Tanzania beat closest challenger Uganda by nine shots after host’s aggregates 244 from best three gross. Tanzania Open and Uganda Open Ladies Champions Martha Babirye had 80 gross for hosts as Irene Nakalembe and Peace Kabasekwa added 81 and 83 strokes respectively to contribute team score. Kenyan Agnes Nyaiko carded 78 at team and Mercy Nyanchama had 87 while third player Margaret Njoki carded 88 to total 253 at third placed. National team under the Tanzania Ladies Golf Union (TLGU) president Sophia Viggo are keen to bring back the title and their campaign has already started to pay off. Viggo was among the members of the national team who won the inaugural ECAACT title at the competition held in Ugandan capital, Kampala in 2009 and now aims to repeat the feat as a president. Iddi, Wanyeche and Eaton were there and also experienced back-toback win at Tanzania People’s defense Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club course two years later. Iddi said: “We are happy to claim a lead against our strong opponents Uganda.Nnine shots is not an easy job, but we have to keep going, we always believe on ourselves and we aim nothing than winning title.” This year’s event missed out defending champions Zambia and other countries like Rwanda, Burundi, Reunion, Malawi, Ethiopia and Seychelles. Teams compete in a 54-hole stroke play event played in three days covering 18 holes daily. The best 3 gross scores of each round count for each country’s score and the country with the lowest gross score after three rounds is declared the winner of the team’s event.