THE National Housing Corporation (NHC) suffered yet another blow from parliamentarians yesterday, after a comparable financial assessment revealed that the public landlord firm may collapse in just 3 years. NHC tabled its financial statements before the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), but members of the parliamentary committee were quick to point out that the company, since 2016, had turned unresponsive on acting upon the committee’s guidance. “If you review the financial position ratio, you may uncover that this company may not proceed after the next three years,” Jamal Kassim Ali (CCM) said, seconding a similar sentiment by Iramba East MP, Allan Kiula (CCM). Kiula who had pocked holes on the company’s internal administration, use of ICT and financial position highlighted that the available cash in the company’s bank accounts had dropped by over 50 per cent in 2018. The books also indicated the company had 11bn/- in its accounts in 2017. Although the financial audit reports conducted by the controller and auditor general issued clean financial sheets, MPs were concerned that NHC’s failure to implement directives issued by the committee in 2016 cast a shadow of doubts going forward. Malinyi MP Dr Hadji Mponda (CCM) and Special Seats MP Anatropia Theonest (Chadema) called for a comprehensive plan to boost the corporation whose largescale projects are now deserted. NHC Board Chairperson, Dr. Sophia Kongole was, however, of a different opinion. She said the firm had indeed been paying much attention in executing the Committee’s recommendation. “A lot of such directives have been implemented at different levels, including reviving the state-run corporation,” she said, citing debt collections that have so far reached 80 per cent. She cleared MPs doubts, saying the corporation is far from collapsing, adding that a lot more strategies are underway to remedy the current situation. As its attempt to revive the corporation in 2016, the committee directed the corporation to strengthen its ICT and abandon traditional means of documentation and communication. The committee also tasked the board to undertake a complete overhaul of the company’s management structure to allow the firm to operate profitably. Some of the projects that were deemed struggling include the Morocco Square complex and the 711 investment in Morocco and Kawe suburbs in the port city of Dar es Salaam. The committee tasked the accounting officer to ensure all the directives that were issued by the committee are fully implemented. PAC’s Deputy Chairperson, Aeshi Hilaly, while delivering the directives said the accounting officer must reinforce control of internal revenue and harmonize all the systems within the corporation. “The Board must also prepare a detailed financial statement and submit it to the CAG by October 24 for auditing,” he said. NHC Director General, Dr Maulid Banyani said the corporation had received approval for its new structure, but the work currently on the ground is to review its policy to correspond with the actual demands. The DG said as of now the corporation is planning to abandon hiring a local or foreign firm to implement its project unless it runs short of expertise. It is also discussing with nine banks on addressing its debts that are now sold to Azania Bank, NBC and NMB, allowing the corporation to pay in local currency against the US dollar.