THE clarion call ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’, which loosely translates as ‘Serious work is what matters most’, was introduced into the Kiswahili vocabulary and popularized by Dr John Magufuli, during the 2015 General Election campaign. He was then the candidate of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party, vying for the highest political post in the land. The thrust of that clarion call was that our country could make sure headway on the social and economic fronts, only if wananchi committed themselves fully to hard work. That message stemmed from the fact that national prosperity cannot be attained on the “manna from heaven” basis; that, the people could idle away precious time and count on divine providence to engineer their economic and social welfare. ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ was enthusiastically embraced by many people because it represented straightforward logic. The message indeed embraces a couple of elements, including high-level discipline at workplaces, curbing theft and corruption, and taming crooks whose misdeeds compromise national development. Examples abound of how that clarion call has been highly beneficial. The plugging of loopholes through which public funds were drained through crafty large-scale tenders and tax evasion, has translated into government revenue being consistently boosted. Much savings have been attained through exorcizing the ghost workers’ devil from the public service, and streamlining the mining sector has created a win-win situation for the government, and therefore wananchi at large. Its kudos to the government, and special salutations to President Magufuli, for setting the country on the right footing. The President has earned much praise, at home and far beyond, for pioneering initiatives for exploiting to the maximum possible extent, the benefits of its vast resources and plugging loopholes for plunder and wastage. Evidence abounds to that effect, examples to which end include infrastructure-development related projects, improvement of education and health sector facilities. Plus, discipline is now the hallmark of public service delivery, as is the offloading from service, of incompetent or corrupt elements. The acquisition of the second fanciful Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner aircraft, which President Magufuli officially received at the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam at the weekend, bringing the number of the country’s fleet to seven, speaks volumes of the fact that doomsayers cannot – CAN NEVER – shatter; that Tanzania is on a steady, irreversible march towards socio-economic prosperity !