THE government wants to come up with a business facilitation Act which would stimulate implementation of the country's launched blueprint. The blueprint provides the Government's main framework for enabling a holistic review of the Business Enabling Environment (BEE) in order to improve the business climate in Tanzania. It presents key challenges affecting the business environment in Tanzania along with a set of recommendations for reform to put in place a more business friendly environment. It covers sector specific regulatory issues in sectors such as agriculture and agroprocessing, construction, creative industry, health sector, immigration and labour, mining sector and mineral processing, social security and labour, transport and logistics, utilities – water and energy. The Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office responsible for Investment, Ms Angellah Kairuki, yesterday said her docket gears to make changes investment policy. 'We are coming up with another law related to a business facilitation policy which will basically facilitate fast implementation of all those contained in the blueprint document, this is law of its kind,' she said. She said the decision came up after realising that waiting for each ministry to make policy changes to fast track implementation of the blueprint would take much time. The minister said during this financial year, they are focusing on implementing a blueprint on four majorareas, which are reviewing licences, introducing single permit, reducing number of licences and permits to investors. "We want to make all licences from the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and National Environment Council (NEMC) to be available electronically," she said. Successful Investors should be ambassadors of how they were facilitated by the government and encourage their fellow investors to come and invest. On other hand, she said the government has removed 163 levies to relieve the investors and facilitate investments. "Currently we are working on harmonising electronic systems of the Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA) and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in order to enable business people get services in time. This would enable the TRA read details of the business registered with the BRELA," she said.