YOUNG Africans loss to Pyramid of Egypt at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza on Sunday, sad as it may be to us, but was very much expected given the kind of players the club recruited for this season. You sometimes wonder what our clubs, and in particular, the two big guns, sometimes think when it comes to football which is arguably the most loved sport in this country. Yes, I did not expect anything other than defeat, especially against an Egyptian team. You see, unlike us, the Egyptians are extremely serious when it comes to matters that relate to sports, and football in particular. There were a lot of bravados coming from a section of Young Africans fans before the match, and this really surprised me to the point of asking myself whether I was out of date as far as football is concerned. Indeed, I could not understand where the bravado was coming from. I asked myself, is it because the Egyptian side is an unknown team, that it’s not the kind of Egyptian clubs we are used to? Our problems, is that we Tanzanians and especially so, fans from the two big clubs, Simba and Young Africans are sometimes blurred by our empty feelings. Whenever we are paired against an African team, what we always think of is the stature of the club coming to play against us. If the club is small and is coming from those weak, soccer nations (which are by the way, increasingly shrinking going by what we saw in the June 2019 AFCON finals, we don’t prepare ourselves! In fact, I suspect that is what Young Africans did. They did not prepare themselves for the game. Pyramid sounded a nondescript side. But we forgot that it was an Egyptian side. That is also what I think happened when their arch rivals, Simba were paired against that nondescript Mozambican side. Simba did not only lose, but were finally knocked out of the tournament. And the same befell Young Africans on Sunday, and they now have an uphill task against the Egyptians in a fortnight. But what always beats me is the fact that we always know that our players are suspect, in terms of almost everything from, and yet we don’t prepare our players even in stamina, speed, strength and suppleness. Whenever I talk of the four magical S, I always remember my young brother, former Taifa Stars coach, Syllersaid Mziray who has since passed on. Mziray used to say that ‘in term of skills, Tanzania soccer players are not very much different from other parts of the continent.’ But the former Simba and Young Africans coach used to say that things, however, change from the quarter final stage upwards…that is where skill, deep knowledge in basic soccer and so on matters quite considerably. The implication of Mziray’s arguments was that if we could prepare our players, thoroughly, in the magical four S, we could always be assured of getting our teams to quarter final and beyond. But because we never prepare our players for endurance, it’s not surprising that we have always ended in the preliminary round of any continental soccer tournament, be it at club or national soccer team level. But when all is said and done, the way Young Africans played on Sunday, I think it is time Mwinyi Zahera was relieved of his duties. Yes, he has failed the club, first for registering the kind of players he registered and secondly, and more importantly, for his failure to turn the club around. For instance, you don’t play a defensive formation at home when you’re supposed to be looking for as many goals as possible to cushion you in the return leg away from home. Perhaps the only thing Young Africans can have comfort in, and a negative one at that, is that their arch soccer rivals, Simba cannot, in any way, heckle at them. But going forward, both soccer arch-rivals need to wake up from their deep slumber. They need to inject an element of seriousness in whatever project they are involved in. Surely, they cannot continue to let Tanzanians down with their poor performance. If both cannot go beyond the quarter final, who else in this country can do that?