TIB Development Bank has supported the government’s efforts to support health issues by donating 86 white sticks to the Tanzania League of the Blind – Temeke Branch and contributed total of TZS 2,500,000 to Tanzania Cancer Support and Hope Foundation (TCS HOPE) as part of contribution to purchase 2500 breast prosthesis and bras for breast cancer victims. Speaking during a brief Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) handover ceremony, Bank’s Managing Director, Mr Charles Singili said that TIB as a developmental institution considers the well-being of those in need of health challenges as one of the key catalysts for development. He added that in recognition of the importance of the health sector in the development of the country, the Bank will continue to make contributions to help those in need of special needs as well as supporting the government’s efforts in health sector. He said that in recognising the good work being done by the Government led by President Dr. John Pombe Joseph Magufuli, in promoting health sector development, education, job creation and entrepreneurship, TIB Development Bank is committed to continuing to support such efforts by investing in strategic projects that will accelerate development in the country. “Our goal is to support the government’s efforts to accelerate the achievement of the Tanzania Development Vision in particular to help our country achieve a middle-income economy status by 2025,” he said. Referring to the support they have donated, Mr Singili said that the sticks provided are useful tools and aids for the blind people that help a blind person to make his way wherever he wants to go without being affected by other road users. “I would like to appeal to the community and especially all road users, pedestrians, motorists, motorcyclists (daladala / bodaboda) to respect the white sticks and help the blind on the road,” Mr. Singili appealed. Speaking during the event, Secretary General of the TLB – Temeke Branch, Mr. Protase Mutakyanga, said the donations made by the Bank will help its members to continue dealing with income generation activities. “This contribution will allow us to engage in development activities especially that will help us generate income,” he said. On his part, TCS HOPE Secretary, Mr. Luca Mabena thanked the Bank for the donation which he said will help restore happiness to women affected by breast cancer.