DEFENDANTS in a 350bn/- economic sabotage and money laundering trial Harbinder Sethi and James Rugemalira have separately written to Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), seeking to dispose the case. Before Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the case came for mention with the prosecution informing Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi that investigations were incomplete. In the letters, Sethi has expressed his inclination to compensate the government part of the loss allegedly occasioned in Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL) transaction while Rugemalira is seeking audience with the DPP to give a detailed account on the matter. In the October 4, 2019 dated letter, Rugemalira has asked the DPP to exercise his authority under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act to release him from the case to effectively assist the republic to recover over 37tri/- from Standard Chartered Bank and conspirators. The accused has attached several documentary exhibits to support his position but quickly pointed out that he has no grudge against the government for detaining him for so long since his first arraignment. He expresses belief that the government was misled by the bank and its conspirators, stating that should the chief prosecutor enter a “nolle prosequi” for his immediate release, he will effectively prosecute all the pending cases before the High Court and Court of Appeal against the bank and conspirators. In the cases, VIP Engineering and Marketing Limited seeks to recover over 20tri/- in financial and economic damages from the bank over which the republic, through Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) shall be entitled to over 6tri/- as corporate income and other taxes. Although Sethi pledges paying part of the loss suffered and surrendering theIPTL plant to the government, he has reportedly imposed some conditions, including the dropping all the economic charges he is facing. In yesterday’s proceedings, Advocate Michael Ngalo, for Rugemalira, requested the prosecution to make follow up to the DPP office to enable his client to get the responses on time. Advocate Dora Masaba, for Sethi, raised no comment on the request. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon informed the court that the letters have been received and were being acted upon. He promised that the accused will get the responses as expected. The magistrate adjourned the case to October 24, 2019 for another mention. In the trial, the accused face 12 counts of conspiracy, leading organised crime, forgery, uttering false document, obtaining money by false pretences, occasioning loss to specified authority and money laundering. Between October 18, 2011 and March 19, 2014, at various places in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania as well as various places in Kenya, South Africa and India, the accused jointly and together, allegedly conspired to commit the offence of obtaining money by false pretences. Within the same period in Dar es Salaam, the prosecution claimed, being not public officials but in collusion with public officers, all accused intentionally and knowingly managed, financed and furthered the objectives of criminal racket with intent to reap profit or other benefit. Between November 29, 2013 and January 23, 2014 at Stanbic Bank Limited, Centre Branch in Kinondoni District and at Mkombozi Commercial Bank PLC, St Joseph Branch in Ilala District, by false pretences, all accused obtained 22,198,544.60 US dollars and 309,461,300,158/27. The court further heard that on November 29, 2013 at Stanbic Bank Limited, Centre Branch in Kinondoni District, by their willful acts, jointly and together, Sethi and Regemalira subjected the government of Tanzania to a pecuniary loss of the amount. Meanwhile, three people accused of economic sabotage were freed from remand prison yesterday after they agreed to compensate the government 29bn/-. They are Elizabeth Masawe, a business lady and Makongo Juu resident, Reuben Mwakasakyeni, an Accountant with Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and resident of Msaranga Moshi in Kilimanjaro region and Ephraim Magete, Manager with Tema Enterprises, residing at Kigamboni area. The trio had written to the DPP, expressing their desire to confess to the crime and enter into a plea-bargaining agreement to end the trial they were facing. Senior State Attorneys Wankyo Simon, Renatus Mkude and Faraji Nguka told Senior Resident Magistrate Wanjah Hamza that the DPP accepted the accused’s letters and sealed the deal. He subsequently prepared the new charge against them. The accused pleaded guilty to one count of occasioning loss to the specified authority. The magistrate convicted them on their own plea and sentenced each of them to pay a 3m/- fine. The magistrate further ordered the three convicts to comply with the terms and conditions of the plea-bargaining agreements they entered with the DPP, including immediate payment to the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) 200m/- and 28.8bn/- be settled within a two-year period. Earlier, the prosecution had told the court that between November 22, 2013 and August 21, 2017 at various places in Temeke and Ilala districts, by their wilful acts, the three accused through tax evasion subjected TRA to a pecuniary loss of 29bn/-. In another case, a woman, Elizabeth Ballali, believed to be a close relative with former BoT Governor the late Daud Ballali, appeared before Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court charged with two counts of obtaining money by false pretence and money laundering. She was not allowed to enter plea to the charge as the case falls under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate ordered the accused to remain in remand until when the case comes for mention as investigations are incomplete. The prosecution told the court that Elizabeth committed the offences between October 19 and December 21, 2017 at different places in Dar es Salaam. With intent to defraud, the accused allegedly obtained 25m/- from Dr Rodrick Kisenge. The prosecution alleged that the accused pretended to the medical doctor that she would sell unsurveyed land with 900 square metres at Boko Dovya area within Kinondoni District, knowingly that the land was not hers. On money laundering, Elizabeth was accused of obtaining the amount within the same period through a bank account at CRDB Bank in her name.