THE Sumbawanga District Court in Rukwa Region is today expected to start hearing an immigration case involving Watch Tower Church leader Jonas Simulunga (73) and nine Zambian nationals. Simulunga, who is popularly known as “Holy Father” or “Pope”, was arrested by an immigration officer at Kitika in Kasanga Ward along the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Kalambo District, Rukwa Region, for hosting illegal immigrants who allegedly entered the country without having proper travelling documents. He and nine Zambian nationals have already appeared in court twice and pleaded guilty to the crime. The nine illegal immigrants are Zambian nationals and Watch Tower Church followers facing charges of entering the country illegally without possessing legal travelling documents. Mr Yona Elipokea Wilson on October 16, this year, adjourned the case until October 21, this year. The Zambian nationals are Joseph Sichilima (72), Joseph Simsika (71), Dan Sichilima (72), David Simusika (68), James Sichilima (65), David Sinkala (42), Enock Simungala (40), Noah Sikazwe (40) and Amos Sinyangwe (40), all are from Mpungulu Town, a small port on Lake Tanganyika on the Zambian side. The trial magistrate ordered them to be returned to the remand prison after failing to secure reliable sureties as the case was bailable. Prosecuting, Immigration Officer Neema Gowele charged before the court that the accused committed the offence on September 30, this year, at Kitika in Kasanga Ward along the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Kalambo District, Rukwa Region. It was further charged before the court that the nine Zambian nationals illegally entered the country by boat and were hosted by the “Holy Father”. One of Watch Tower Church’s bishops, Rev Silas Mulunga, told the ‘Daily News’ outside the court room after the case was adjourned that the church could not bail out the accused because it was a grave sin to do so according to church teaching. “Bailing out the accused as per our church teaching is like giving a bribe, which is sinful,” he noted. It was further alleged that the nine Zambian nationals entered the country to celebrate Christmas Eve and New Year without having legal travelling documents. Reports from inside Watch Tower Church have it that its faithful celebrate New Year each year on April 14 and Christmas on October 1. Watch Tower Church was established more than a decade ago by a Tanzanian who was living in America. With headquarters popularly known as “Vatican City”, it is located at Kitika in Kasanga Ward and its leader is popularly known as “Holy Father” or “Pontiff” while its followers are popularly known as Watch Towerers. Bishop Mulunga told this paper that as church traditions each year on October 1 the faithful from neighbouring Malawi and Zambia would gather at Kitika to join their fellow Tanzanians and celebrate Christmas.