TANZANIA has a strong financial sector to meet investments needs in the oil and gas industry, the Central Bank Governor, Prof Florens Luoga has said. He said in a keynote address at the 3rd Oil and Gas Congress in Dar es Salaam last week, that the Central Bank had taken a raft measure to ensure banks had adequate liquidity to be able to support development in the oil and gas industry through investment financing. “We know that the government can’t provide all the finances to the private sector...we want to see banks grow to do that and risks diminish,” said Prof Luoga at the congress organised to showcase investment opportunities in the booming oil and gas industry. Tanzania is set to add 5.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to raise estimates reserves of natural gas to over 62 trillion cubic feet. A consortium of international oil companies, Equinor, alongside Royal Dutch Shell, Exxon Mobil and Ophir Energy and Pavilion Energy are expected to start building a longdelayed liquefied natural gas (LNG) project in Lindi Region in 2022, the Minister of Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani had said in Parliament in May. Prof Luoga said they were aware that oil and gas industry would provide many opportunities to boost socio-economic development of the people and growth the local economy but all that may be lost if there would be no adequate financing for local entrepreneurs. He said Tanzania was performing well in macroeconomic with a strong growing economy, good and stable exchange rate and adequate foreign reserves making the country an attractive investment destination. “In macrofinance we’re performing very well. By using very well known methodologies, we’re growing at 7 per cent rate. We have very good exchange rate,” he said. The BoT Governor said inadequate foreign exchange reserves were a thing of the past as there was enough reserves to the extent of planning to apportion some to gold reserves. “In the past we had we had a problem with foreign exchange reserves. We do not have that problem now. We have more than adequate foreign exchange reserves...we are looking forward to apportioning some to gold reserves...we are a net purchaser of forex. We don’t sell. We buy,” he said. He said lending to the private sector was expanding and the banks were doing well in curbing nonperforming loans (NPLs) which had soared in a few years ago to affect growth of the banks and lending to the private sector. “Lending to the private sector is on the rise. It is increasing substantially. The Central Bank makes sure banks are expanding. We don’t want small banks that can’t meet demands of expanding economy,” “We don’t have future worries of growing NPLs. Our banks are performing professionally and the staff do their works…our banks are availed with adequate liquidity We’re creating infrastructure to enable the banks obtain vital information from customers to facilitate more lending. He said the Central Bank was expecting to establish an online searching for credit history of bank customers that would assist banks in credit provision. Prof Luoga said they were also expecting to establish financial registry services that will be made possible by growth in issuance of national identity cards.