THIS Monday would be the climax of the 20th memorial event of Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere’s death; so many things have been said about him, however I feel I have to add what is not known on his closeness to Prison’s Service and the role he played in making Tanzania Prisons Service a spectacle of modern agriculture in this country. Having worked with the Prisons Service from the early sixties, I have the temerity of narrating what happened in those early years of our independence and how Her Majesty’s Prisons Service (HM Prisons) under the colonial government was transformed from coercive instrument into image building institution of independent Tanganyika that identified itself with peasants in promoting agrarian revolution. Mwalimu Nyerere had known the first indigenous Commissioner of Prisons, Obadiah Kinyonyi Rugimbana since the days of Tabora School in the early forties. At the break of the Second World War, Rugimbana was conscripted, joined the Army and left Mwalimu at Tabora where he (Nyerere) later proceeded to Makerere in Uganda while Rugimbana transversed to Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Libya mostly arming himself with agricultural training during the war. After the war, Rugimbana was demobilized and continued with agricultural activities in Agricultural Institutions like Ukiliguru and others. Even in those colonial times Rugimbana believed that agriculture was the engine for socio-economic development for Tanganyika. He acted as an agricultural extension officer and had a small well-taken-care-of banana farm which he used as a demonstration plot at his home. He introduced Irish potato cultivation in Karagwe, and the produce fed soldiers before joining the Prison Service where later Mwalimu Nyerere spotted him to become the Commissioner of Prisons. Rugimbana in his quest of turning round the prison policy called for a rethinking on existing policy and envisioned that the purpose of prison administration had all along been punitive in nature. In the punitive approach a convicted criminal must be separated from the people; his freedom must be restricted, both as a punishment and also to protect society from his unlawful activities. Subjectively it served as deterrence to potential criminals. But such a system may be termed a necessary social evil. It is a system bound to be an economic burden on the tax payer. The ideas of the new Commissioner Rugimbana were that Prisons Service must have a new policy that is consistent with civilized thinking. He argued that the new package must serve not only punitive purpose but also a reformative purpose. In the final analysis the package should be capable of assisting the unfortunate incumbents with the mental aptitude and know-how for future rehabilitation. With such framework, he thought a new policy would then be worked out to accommodate deploying the prison labour on nation building and revenue earning for public good. Rugimbana was keen on changing Tanzania’s peasant agriculture. He thought his contribution was through prisons. He argued that if prisoners knew good crop husbandry they would become better peasants after their prison sentences and they would influence their farming neighbours. He believed offenders of yesterday would become useful peasants of tomorrow. Apparently all his ideas were endorsed by Mwalimu Nyerere who was impressed with what Rugimbana was up to and built confidence on him. At one time Mwalimu told the underperforming agricultural extension officers that he could sack all of them and remain with prison officers who would become field officers. To his credit, the commissioner initiated new open Prison Farms where prisoners with less risk were deployed. These farms were successful in using proper crop and livestock husbandry. Sequel to this there were vivid signs of food self-sufficiency in prisons that provided a good spectacle to politicians who found prisons as nucleus of agricultural development in the country! As if that was not enough, Mwalimu Nyerere used to say whenever he was airborne seeing a good farm downwards; It would be clear in his mind that would be a prison farm. It is on record that Tanzania’s leadership was very close to the early Israeli leadership, the late Golda Meir and her colleagues. Golda Meir was close to Africa’s leaders and is said during Ghana’s independence celebrations Mwalimu Nyerere, Rashidi Kawawa and Golda Meir used the occasion to discuss intimately African and world issues. Rugimbana visited Israel saw kibbutz farming and was impressed by that socialist approach to rural development. Tanzania’s socialist approach was similar to the Israelis’. In Israel it was kibbutz farming while in Tanzania was Vijiji vya Ujamaa. It was perceived that for a long time to come, Tanzania’s economy would remain a peasant-agriculture economy. In 1967, the government published a blue print, the Arusha Declaration, which asserted this fact and sought to mechanize the sector. In pursuit of this objective, President Nyerere transferred Rugimbana from Prisons to the Ministry of Agriculture, naming him the first Director of Production and Technical Services. The TANU s’ Arusha Declaration document talked about two main things: A socialist way of development and self-reliance. To achieve both goals in the Tanzanian context, the document said emphasis should be on the peasant and Tanzania’s agriculture. The metaphor was: ‘agriculture is the backbone of national development.’ It is reasonable to suggest that his appointment was considered along those lines and Rugimbana was moved to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives as the Director of Production Development and Technical Services in 1967, having been Commissioner of Prisons for five years. Nobody can say for sure why Mwalimu Nyerere took him to the Ministry of Agriculture but there are tips for a good guess as Rugimbana was Nyerere’s confidant. He would use him the way he used his other trusted friend, Rashidi Mfaume Kawawa. Mwalimu used to address Rugimbana as a farmer. Nyerere knew Rugimbana’s devotion to peasants and their peasantry agriculture no wonder Rugimbana on those days could easily frequent at the State House with minimum restrictions as Mwalimu used Prison Service as a show piece of agricultural activities reminiscent to big commercial farms of settlers. mgosiwasui87@gmail.com +225754342711 Senior Citizen Author of Books