THE Russia Cultural Centre (RCSC) in Dar es Salaam brought together groups of Tanzania and Russian children to sing Russian songs at Chiriku Festival, the second International festival of Russia’s children anthem. In Dar es Salaam, the event was nicknamed Chiriku to relate the event with a small bird famous with good look and a sweet sound. Nearly seven children’s choirs presented their songs amid cheerful watching and listening multitude at the RCSC conference centre. The choir groups wore different uniforms which matched with their songs to sound and look like a flock of Chiriku in the forest. Only one choir group came all the way from Russia to perform the songs and dances, the rest were local Tanzanians or some whose parents are on a foreign mission to Tanzania. “My choir comprised of Tanzanian children and others who attend Russian language and crafts classes at the RCSC every Saturday. We are delighted to see our performance has attracted a laureate after presenting two songs in Russian language, one called the Rainbow and other one going by the name; Forget Me Not,” said Elena Simonova, a Russian citizen and official at the RCSC after her choir was awarded a grand prix. She says that her award came after a thorough work of teaching children aged between three and ten years through songs. The children love to express themselves through songs, music, tales and dances and therefore it was a good method of teaching and that helped them qualify for the international festival of Russian children songs. The children and other performers sang perfectly and imitated some Russian culture per songs as if they were conversant and fluent of the language and its associated culture. Joana Mfangavo, who trains one of the young singers from Feza international schools, elaborated that the smooth performance which earned her school a grand prix award was not an easy work, but invested in tireless efforts. “My choir group comprises 12 children who are in Class Four and six of them are Tanzanians and they don’t speak Russian language. The practice for participating Chiriku festival was in fact a result of thorough listening to some people singing in this language. They memorised, and memorized again, practiced and sang several times,” she explained while noting that grand prix was due to efforts they invested in. More and more interesting was the children forging new friendship and integrating, posing for the photos at the end, while the little ones scrambled for the trophies and certificates, some wishing they would work away with them to their homes. One of the songs translated in English was talking about cockroaches and grasshoppers that they together live in furnace and they are quite difficult to distinguish from each other. “This is a funny song indeed and as it carries an educative and entertaining message for the children” said Rifat Patev, a Russian national living in Tanzania.