BARCLAYS Tanzania Managing Director, Abdi Mohamed, has advised media practitioners to invest more in data journalism so as to improve their works and remain relevant in the market in the wake of growing social media impact on journalism. Mr Mohamed said that time when traditional media — radio, TV or newspapers — were the only way to reach the public was on its way out and hence journalists must become more innovative to remain relevant in the market. “The ‘he-said or she-said’ is not enough if journalists are to remain relevant,” said Mr Mohamed at the closure of a two-day Highway Africa Master Class for Data Journalism in Dar es Salaam. He said data journalism provides new approaches to story telling by using an ever-growing set of tools, techniques and approaches to storytelling. Combined with traditional reporting techniques, data can help a journalist tell stories in more compelling and innovative ways, he said. Mr Mohamed also noted that the bank was approaching the climax of making necessary changes to cope with changing business environment. He said Barclays Africa had changed its name back to Absa Group Limited recently and would rename its Barclays Bank subsidiaries in Tanzania and some other African countries within the next two years subject to approvals. Dr Peter Verweij, Media Consultant on Data Journalism who ran the training said data journalism provides the future at the time when media organisations are constricted more than ever by dwindling revenues and greater content demands. He said the biggest breakthrough for data journalists has been access to tools, as well as their simplification for those less adept at data mining. “The tools that are becoming available to journalists have changed significantly. There are a lot of the things that journalists can do now such as using simple tools you’d need to write very complicated story.” “Data journalism training focuses on teaching journalists that there is another way of reporting instead of holding the tape recorder and interviewing sources in the common way of reporting,” says Peter Verweij, Media Consultant on Data Journalism. The two-day training was organized by Barclays bank Tanzania in Dar es Salaam for editors and senior reporters from different media outlets across the country with the aim of empowering media practitioners to do away with traditional way of reporting stories. Barclays Bank Tanzania is part of Absa Group Limited, an African financial services group that aims to be the pride of the continent. Absa Group Limited is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa and is one of Africa’s largest diversified financial services groups with a presence in 12 countries across the continent and around 42,000 employees.