EXIM Bank Tanzania has inaugurated a three-month ‘home loan’ campaign with an attractive low-interest rate envisioned to make its customers have easy access and affordable services countrywide. Launching the campaign in Dar es Salaam recently, Exim Bank Retail and SME Assets Head, Mr Charles Kapufi said the new product would sail as a ‘Nyumba Yangu Loan,’ which loosely translates in English as my home account. He said the product would offer low interest rate of 15 percent per annum to all new applicants who would wish to own new house through their loans in the next 90 days. Mr Kapufi further noted that once a customer has abided with their stipulations, he/she would be furnished with such a loan within a short time and right amount. “Buying a house is an important investment decision for many first-time homebuyers, but could mean something else….t hat is why our approach to home purchase loans and equity released for one to own a house is possible,” he added. The Assets Head institution further said that the product would enable current homeowners, who have existing mortgage loans with them anywhere and opt to do replacement with high-interest payment, go for low rates or favorable loan tenure. “And the story does not just end there, for those whose houses have increased in value because of price appreciation or quality improvements done on the property, we are better placed to help them convert the value of their houses into cash through a cash-out mortgage loan”. “Upon which they can use the monies advanced to buy the next home, upgrade the property with the landscape, new paint, new roof, and set up an additional saving or put the money towards long-term investment,” said Mr Kapufi. In a related move, the financier said that as part of their institution easing services, they are committed to provide more opportunities to potential and existing homeowners with the right forum to ‘change and grow’ in their livelihoods by providing them with affordable ready loans whose terms are friendly. “It is our belief that this will surely be achieved by advising and serving our customers as part of our family, and as we help them in every stage in loan application process and friendly easy steps. A perfect home needs a perfect financial partner, hence welcome and let’s prosper together through Nyumba Y angu Loan,” he pointed out.