THE Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo has advised intellectuals to revise the subject combinations for advanced level education. The aim of the review, he said, is to generate specialists in line with their passion and the country’s growing employment market. He gave the remarks in Dar es Salaam during an award giving ceremony of outstanding students, teachers, schools, municipals and regions in the 2019 examination results to standard seven and form six levels. “Intellectuals, please review these combinations, they need to be brushed up, because at the end of the day, they do not create specialists according to the employment market available in the country,” he directed. He said combinations like CBG (Chemistry, Biology and Geography), CBN (Chemistry, Biology, and Nutrition) are limiting. “I urge intellectuals to sit down and review such combinations so that we do not cost our youth and be an obstacle in achieving their dreams.” Insisting, “As the government, we should not be involved in destroying people’s dreams; the combinations established should assist youths to achieve their visions.” The minister said there are youths with dreams, and they should be assisted in achieving them, as he gave directives that the entire grade seven graduates receiving awards should be admitted to any government school of their liking. “We should not destroy their dreams. As a nation, we must nurture what our youth desire and are passionate with. Our aim is to encourage Tanzanians to further pursue education,” he said. He explained that he also intends to create a ‘Minister’s award’ in education that targets how to support outstanding performers. The Minister’s Award for Excellence in Student Achievement is a prestigious award presented to students who have demonstrated high achievement in academic excellence, leadership and commitment to the school community. “We must create motivations that will attract Tanzanians in education, so that they also understand its importance. Mr Jafo expressed his desire to witness the awards that were officially initiated yesterday being continuous. “That is why we have created guidelines to be followed to ensure the award’s permanency and improvement in the future.” “That is why apart from valuing youth who have performed outstandingly in academics, I would like to see improvement next year by having awards that will recognise youth who have performed brilliantly in arts and sports as well.” He added that Tanzanians must recognise youths who have done well in sports each year, saying that we should also acknowledge annually the best artist, and recognise these two categories in next year’s award ceremony. Education, he said, involves a lot of things, including sports. The National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA) released the primary school leaving examination results (PSLE) of 2019 that was sat in September, where 81.5 per cent of 933,369 pupils who sat for the exams passed, showing an improvement in performance by 3.78. A-level examination results of 2019 showed a rise in the pass rate of 0.74 to 98.32 per cent from last year’s 97.58 per cent, where a total of 90,001 sat for the examination.