COMMONWEALTH Women Parliamentarians (CWP) is now calling on political parties in Africa to amend their constitutions to achieve gender equality in party structures and national assemblies. Agitated by the fewer number of women representation in most African parliaments, a section of women representatives from CWP observed it was high time political parties review their constitutions to have a 50:50 gender representation in all party structures and national assemblies. “Our constitutions ought to be gender sensitive, which is why we are calling for their amendments,” observed Ms Bintu Jalia Lukumu, a Ugandan female MP and also the Vice Chairperson of Africa regional CWP yesterday. The Ugandan lawmaker, who was speaking shortly after the conclusion of an induction session for CWP steering committee ahead of today’s regional sensitisation workshop, underscored the importance of African countries to ratify the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa, better known as the Maputo protocol. Signed in July 11 2003, the Human Rights instrument guarantees comprehensive rights to women, including the right to take part in political process, to social and political equality with men, improved autonomy in their reproductive health decisions, and an end to female genital mutilation. “We have to acknowledge the efforts by some governments, however, it is still important to remind them to honour their commitments,” she said. On her part, Namibia’s Agnes Mpingana Kafula hailed the commonwealth for taking a lead role in pushing African governments to achieve the elusive 50:50 gender representation. Referring to her country, Ms Kafula said Namibia was currently enjoying a 47 per cent representation in the country’s national assembly and political parties’ structures. She attributed the feat to Namibia’s ruling party SWAPO struggle to ensure that there was gender equality in the country’s political landscape. “At the moment we are compelling the opposition in our country to amend their constitutions as well,” she revealed. Out of 393 MPs in Tanzania, 145 are women, a ratio equating to 31 per cent. Rwanda leads all African countries with most women in parliament, where the East African country enjoys a 65 per cent. Today’s regional sensitisation workshop which will be graced by Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan will bring together women parliamentarians from 18 African Commonwealth countries. It will also feature insightful topics to be presented by former speaker of the National Assembly and a long serving MP, Ms Anna Makinda. Other speakers during the workshop include the President of Youth Caucus of the Pan African Parliament (PAP), Ms Mboni Mhita and the Executive Director of Tanzania Media Women’s Association (TAMWA), Ms Rose Reuben.