FURIOUS rains, for that is exactly how that climatic phenomenon can be best characterised, which have lately descended on some parts of Tanzania, have subjected wananchi to various forms of agony. In their wake, the periodic rains cause deaths as well as destruction of residential and other buildings, plus infrastructure. A good number of people are rendered homeless as flood waters surge into their houses, and many of their precious assets are destroyed. Transport is gravely disrupted as some bridges are damaged and sections of some roads are temporarily closed as a safety precaution, because they are perceived to subject would-be users to grave risks, due to their condition being perceived to be unstable. The net effect of transportation flow being disrupted or slow-motioned, is that various social and economic activities are disrupted, translating into national welfare being shaken up and misery creeping in. When the losses at individual, community and broader levels are calculated, the emerging picture is frightening. The major aspect is that the disrupted economic and social activities translate into considerable stagnation. We are extending our sympathies to all the people who have been affected by the floods, and pray to God to keep further suffering at bay. We are as anxious as any other well-intentioned people, at individual and broader levels, that the fury of the rains eases and subsequently vanishes, and that the climatic scenario returns to normal. We have grown pretty accustomed to rain pouring in excess, plus the grave inconveniences to which it subjects us. But the past experiences are supposed to have placed us on a consistent state of alert, to, at best, curb the nasty outcomes, and, at worst, limit the inconveniences to the utmost minimum. Unfortunately, the general trend is that, once things calm down after every cycle of heavy-rain deaths, homelessness and various forms of disruption, we loosen our guard. People living in flood-prone areas are often sensitized to relocate to safer alternatives on higher ground, but the response is usually lukewarm. We are held captive to the debate focused on letting some people literally embrace death by living in highly risky environments. There’s then the problem of some familiar troublesome areas which aren’t adequately fixed, so that come rain, we are back to square one. One thing shoots to the fore: Heavy rain preparedness must be raised to a higher level.