KIBOSHO Girls Secondary School, one of the most famous schools in the country recently marked its golden jubilee with ecstasy, having produced remarkable leaders in various fields and institutions in the country. Leading the celebration, the institution’s Alumni Chairperson, Ms Monica De Mello praised the school for setting a major educational foundation for their success. She said that studying at the school, they acquired different skills and courage to fight all forms of religious, race, colour and ethnicity discriminations, which have helped them to strengthen national unity among them as former students, hence established the school’s alumni. However, Ms De Mello expressed their alumni’s appreciation to those who contributed towards establishing the school, among them being its founder, the late Father Joseph Babu and first Headmistress, Sr. Mary Consolata. “Fr. Babu’s contribution has brought a big change among young girls, who later contributed and still continue to contribute for the development process inside and outside the country. This school is not only good for the good national exams results, but also for producing future good and patriotic citizens,” she added. The chairperson unveiled that they have several projects and events with their former school, such as provision of medical equipment meant for treatment of cancer patients, rehabilitation of the institution’s Dispensary and the construction of a Dormitory for Advanced Level students at the school, besides donating blood towards the students, who would require some as patients. “May I take this opportunity to assure the Board and school leadership in general, that we as the school’s alumni will continue to commit ourselves for all the development processes of the school to ensure its prosperity,” she pointed out, while thanking the school’s current leadership under Sr. Anna for agreeing to have the alumni participate in the jubilee celebrations that went along with their graduation ceremonies. Speaking during the celebrations, the Head of the Catholic Diocese of Geita, His Eminence Bishop Flavian Kassala, said the time has come for parents to join the government in fighting the erosion of social values among young people, including school pregnancies in the country. Bishop Kassala, who doubles as the Vice President of the Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC) said: “The erosion of morality among young people especially girls is continuing to rise; the number of school girls’ pregnancies which are provided every now and then, for example, are alarming; there is no short cut here, we all have a great responsibility as parents and guardians to address this challenge. “The government has invested heavily in the fight against student pregnancies by imposing stiff penalties against those convicted of impregnating school girls which include long term imprisonment but the number of impregnated school girls is still continuing to rise, a clear message that we still have something to do to address this challenge.” Bishop Kassala noted that the time has come to intensify the fight against moral erosion among youth that should involve parents, guardians and students themselves, adding that all parties should sit together and discuss various challenges, which continue to thwart the dreams of school children’s towards their education processes. Administrator of the Catholic Diocese of Moshi, Fr. Deogratias Matiika, hailed the vision of the Late Fr. Babu for starting the school particularly for girls, adding that since its inception, many girls’ lives have completely changed. “The founder of this school received a vision that has completely changed the educational attitude in the public about young girls and this is reflected by the alumni of this school, who have contributed a lot in its Golden Jubilee”, he said, adding that it was encouraging to see many alumni still putting their great efforts to ensure that the institution continues to maintain its status, despite the fact that they graduated from it many years ago. Some few of the alumni are Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Culture and Sports, Ms Suzan Mlawi, Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Avemaria Semakafu, Legislator Suzan Lyimo, Daily News Editor, Ms Pudensiana Temba, former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Ms Suzan Kolimba