YOUNG Africans eye to post the first Vodacom Premier League (VPL) win when they face Coastal Union of Tanga at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam today. The Jangwani Street lads are winless in their two league opening matches of the season with their latest battle ending in a 3-3 draw with Polisi Tanzania on Thursday. It all started with a 1-0 loss to Ruvu Shooting in their opening match of the campaign at the same venue, an outcome which was hard to swallow by many Yanga followers across the country. Again, the hosts had to play lungs out to get one point from the game thanks to the Congolese import hitman, David Molinga (Falcao) who fired two goals to rescue his side from a second league embarrassment. However, after netting the first VPL hat-rick of the campaign, Polisi Tanzania’s striker, Ditram Nchimbi has been added to the national team Taifa Stars squad expecting to take on Rwanda away in an international friendly match. Immediately after the game, Yanga Assistant Coach Noel Mwandila admitted that the defense was shaky and played without unity in both halves of the tense match. He then promised to work on the shortfalls which surfaced during the match in order to stand a good chance of pocketing vital three points from home territory this afternoon. Asked whether the absence of Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera at the team’s technical bench had an impact on the recorded results, Mwandila said the team knows the philosophy of the coach and how they played was in respect of his game plan. Zahera will again follow the proceedings of today’s match from the stands as he is still serving a three match ban imposed on him for improper dressing code as a head coach. The new laws put forward by the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) requires all technical bench members to dress equally and smartly during VPL matches. After today’s clash, Yanga will travel to Mbeya Region and play Tanzania Prisons on October 31st before facing Mbeya City a few days later at Sokoine Memorial Stadium. Mbeya has always been a danger zone for many top teams in the country and getting all six points there becomes a big achievement by the concerned clubs. Placed 12th on the league ladder, Coastal Union have collected four points from three games hence another opportunity for them to continue seeking crucial points.