A SYSTEM of interrelated computing devices, mechanical and digital machines, objects, animals and people is now taking Arusha by storm, with experts encouraging hotel proprietors and owners of safari lodges and tented camps here to embrace the new technology. According to Mr Ashraf Mukri, the General Manager of Afritrack which is a global brand specialising in offering tracking and Internet of Things (IoT) services, more companies are capitalising on the new advanced technology due to its principle value proposition of offering customers ‘actionable intelligence’. “By integrating this data with say, weather and traffic data, any company can make better decisions because it has a more holistic view that is tied to the business,” offered Mr Mukri yesterday. He pointed out further that the future was indeed shaping up to be IoT, where gadgets and home appliances get to communicate with each other and share information about their surroundings. “This is done by installing trackers or sensors in various assets or environments. These trackers and sensors continuously send data to a cloud based application that receives, analyses this data to provide the customer with a higher level of intelligence that the customer can then act on,” he explained. According to Mr Mukri, IoT has also proven to have massive potential on the agricultural sector. Detailing IoT’s benefits on agriculture, Mr Mukri said the new technology could help in improving the sector’s and eventually the country’s economy. He revealed that IoT could provide sensors in the ground to monitor soil moisture, humidity and the measure of acidity or alkalinity of water soluble substances. “All these readings can assist a farmer to make certain decisions about irrigation, use of fertilizers or choice of crop to grow,” he added. The new technology is also playing crucial role in conservation and wildlife protection. Currently, wildlife experts in Tanzania are tracking movements of lions by having collars around lions. The collar connects their movements to Global Positioning System (GPS) and Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), thereby tracking their movements and helping protect endangered population.