MR Roy Eliezer Ndengize (101) a resident of Muleba district’s Katoke Village, in Kagera Region has an interesting story. Every morning, he treks about five kilometers to cut down his body fats to avoid risks of non communicable diseases (NCDs). He advised elderly people who attended the International Elderly Day to nutritious foods, to improve working style and behaviours, among other tips, to fight the NCDs. He noted that people above the age of 50 should be much more cautious saying that these were much more susceptible to cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and other non communicable diseases. Muleba District Commissioner (DC), Engineer Richard Ruyango, on behalf of the Regional Commissioner (RC), Brig Gen Marco Gaguti noted that the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli showed its commitment to health largely by allocating public funds to health-related activities and initiatives and increased the budget for buying drugs from 31bn/-during 2015 to 270bn/- during 2017/18 and there was no shortage of drugs. He warned workers in various health facilities to ensure that elderly people get priority also directed Coucils in Bukoba, Muleba, Biharamulo, Ngara, Karagwe, Kyerwa and Missenyi to provide health identity cards to elderly people to enable them to get free medical treatment. I have received complaints from some senior citizens who lamented that they were often being mistreated when they go for treatment at hospitals and dispensaries and did not get essential drugs for some of the diseases which affect them including prostrate cancer, diabetes and heart-related diseases. The elders thanked President John Magufuli for his tireless efforts in improving social services including health. Mr Clement Nsherenguzi (83) who is also chairman of Saidia Wazee Karagwe (SAWAKA), noted that completion of a district hospital would hasten people’s development. A few years ago, Kagera Region was among regions with high malaria prevalence. However, due to joint efforts more lives have been saved. Malaria prevalence in Kagera Region has been considerably reduced from 42 per cent recorded during 2007 to 15 per cent this year. However, more efforts were still needed to ensure that malaria is completely eliminated. Karagwe District Medical Officer (DMO), Dr Christopher Mwasongela revealed that the district had a total of 45 health facilities including three hospitals, three health centres and 40 dispensaries. Among the three hospitals, two were faith-based institutions. Mr Gaguti commended Kwa Wazee Nshamba, an NGO which enabled 4,023 elderly people to get health identity cards. Muleba District Social Welfare Officer, Gaudin Gratian revealed that the council had already set aside a budget amounting 13m/-to provide health identity cards to 27,701 elders in the area. Kagera Regional Community Development Officer, Ms Rebeccah Gwambassa revealed that a census conducted during 2012, revealed that about 135,089 people in Kagera Region were elderly, implying 5.1 per cent. Kagera Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Marco Mbata revealed that during 2018/19 financial year government released about 4.5bn/- for the construction of three district hospitals for Kyerwa, Karagwe and Bukoba districts. Also, three dispensaries namely Nyakanazi (Biharamulo), Bunazi (Missenyi) and Kayanga (Karagwe) have been upgraded to Health Centres. We thank President Magufuli for upgrading Bunazi (Misenyi), Nyakanazi (Biharamulo) and Kayanga (Karagwe) dispensaries to Health Centres. This is a big achievement because in the past pregnant women had to travel long distance of about 50 kilometers. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, noted that service delivery to elders was one of the government priorities, assuring them the government will continue taking necessary moves to improve the wellbeing of senior citizens. He made the remarks as Tanzania joined the rest of the world to mark the International Day of Older Persons, which was nationally celebrated at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara Region. The efforts include improving infrastructure, create friendly environment to elderly in using transportation facilities and set up systems and criteria to enable them get pension payment. Almost 5.1 per cent of Tanzania’s population, about 2.3 million were elderly citizens. However, only four per cent get monthly pension, because most of them were retired employees while the remaining 96 per cent do not get any pension. Many people regard ageing as a curse. This is because there is no clear law on ageing. The few policies were not seriously implemented, mainly because elderly people have no representatives at decision making organs. The national policy on ageing should safeguard the welfare of elderly people. Elderly people were facing a burden of caring for increasing number of orphans due to HIV/AIDS scourge. While progress is being made to combat HIV/ AIDS, the effort is still facing a significant challenge on older people, to enable them cope with the loss of children, while also supporting grandchildren through bereavement. This has a significant emotional impact on older carers. Unfortunately, too little is known about what living with HIV in older age means, due to very few prevention programs and little HIV information is targeted at the age group. Effective public health system from the grassroots level are important in providing care for the sick and putting in place measures that promote preventive services of diseases. Lack of physical exercise, poor diet and excessive consumption of alcohol, are the leading reasons for heart problems. Every year, 17 million people around the world die of NCDs and three quarters of these deaths occur in developing countries. Most prostrate cancers grow very slowly and never cause symptoms. Some, however, grow rapidly or spread outside the prostrate. The cause of prostate cancer is not known. If your father had cancer of the prostrate, it is no wonder and no guarantee as a son you may develop it at an old age. The chance of developing prostate cancer increases with age, while many men with prostate cancer die without ever knowing that the disease was present. Prostate cancer begins as a small bump in the gland. The only exception and exemption is for women, they will never suffer from cancer of the prostrate because then have no prostate gland. The World Health Organisation (WHO) reported that prostate cancer is the second most frequent malignancy after lung cancer in men worldwide, counting 1,276,106 new cases and causing 358,989 deaths about 3.8 per cent of all deaths caused by cancer in men in 2018. Prostate cancer is the second most frequent cancer diagnosis made in men and the fifth leading cause of death worldwide. Cancer mortality profile revealed that out of 9,100 deaths for males prostate cancer accounted for 30.2 per cent, Oesophagus (13.7 per cent), Mouth and Oropharynx (9.3 per cent), Liver (4.1 per cent), Stomach (4.1 per cent) and other…..38.6 per cent. On the other hand, out of 10,800 female deaths Celvix Uteri accounted for 37.9 per cent, Breast (12 per cent), Oesophagus (6.7 per cent), Mouth and Oropharynx (5.7 per cent), Colorectum (5.4 per cent) and other…32.4 per cent. Prostate cancer may be asymptomatic at the early stage and often has an indolent course that may require only active surveillance. Differences in the incidence rates worldwide reflect differences in the use of diagnostic testing. Prostate cancer incidence and mortality rates are strongly related to the age with the highest incidence being seen in elderly men above 65 years of age. There is no evidence yet on how to prevent prostate cancer; However, it is possible to lower the risk by limiting high-fat foods, increasing the intake of vegetables and fruits and performing more exercise. Screening is highly recommended. Prostate cancer has now become one of the common men’s issues. According to the latest WHO data published in 2017 Prostate Cancer deaths in Tanzania reached 3,309 or 0.89 per cent of total deaths. September is prostate cancer awareness month.