PRIME Minister Kassim Majaliwa has given a-three-day ultimatum to the Acting Treasurer of Itigi District, Optatus Likiliwike, to refund 1.6m/- which he paid himself as personal travel allowance. The official was also ordered to refund 196m/- used for the construction of the council offices contrary to the set procedure. However, the PM did not give specific time for the refund of the 196m/- though he wanted it paid back sooner than later. “Before I complete my tour on October 7, I want to see a bank payment slip of 1.6m/- confirming that you have returned the money you paid yourself,” ordered Mr Majaliwa yesterday while speaking to Manyoni District staff, which also comprises of Itigi District. As the PM issued the directive, he wanted to be sure whether he was speaking to the right person, noting; “If am not mistaken, your name is either Otto or Optatus? You were paid a travel allowance in July this year to go to Dodoma for finalization of the budget, but you never went. It is quite clear that if you spent the money for your own use, you were supposed to make a refund of the money, but in your case what happened?” Responding to the questions, Likiliwike said due to a tight schedule at work, he travelled on weekends to Dodoma to finalize the planning of the budget. Regarding the 196m/-, the PM noted that after disbursement the money was allocated for retention, but the use of the money was altered for other purposes. The Premier wanted to know the person responsible for diverting the funds, and was informed that it was the previous District Executive Director (DED) and treasurer before Likiliwike who made such authorization. Based on the response, Mr Majaliwa directed the newly appointed DED of Itigi, Mr John Magalula, to supervise the return of the money. Mr Likiliwike pledged to repay the allowance, noting that each year his council will set aside 70m/- to ensure that the 196m/- is recovered. However, the PM was not impressed with the response, and asked them to allocate more funds so that the entire amount is repaid immediately to the Tanzania Building Agency (TBA). However, Mr Likiliwike further disclosed that the money being owed is claimed to have been squandered by the previous administration, citing names of the people responsible to include the former DED, Mr Pius Luhende and the Treasurer, Charles Mnamba. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Majaliwa yesterday expressed his satisfaction with the speed of the implementation of the 10bn/- Kintinku- Lusilile water project in Manyoni district, Singida region. The project that will serve residents in 11 villages of Kintinku, Lusilile, Maweni, Mvumi, Ngaiti, Chikuyu, Mwiboo, Mbwasa, Mtiwe, Makutupora and Chilejeho is expected to be completed by the end of next month. Briefing PM Majaliwa on the development of the project yesterday, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency Manager, Engineer Gabriel Ngongi said upon completion, the project will serve around 55,000 villagers whose first phase cost 2.46bn/-. He said the construction of the 300,000 –litre storage tank is in its final stage of completion.