YOUNG African’s Namibian striker, Sadney Urikhob scored his first Premier League goal as his side posted a slim 1-0 win over Mbao FC at CCM- Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Urikhob scored the winner in the 56th minute after connecting home a ground cross from Mapinduzi Balama who did a good job to beat two defender before releasing a gross-cutter inside the box which Urikhob coolly slammed it inside the gaping net. After the goal Yanga pushed more attacks on their opponents goal’s, but the hosts’ defence line stood firm to clear most of them. Despite being a goal down, Mbao continued to hunt for an equalizer and their efforts nearly paid off in the 70th minute when Mbao skipper Said Junior narrowly missed it after his diving header inside the box was grabbed by Young Africans goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo. In the 80th minute, David Molinga could have put his name in the score sheet, but his well free kick was superbly punched away by Mbao goalkeeper Abdallah Makangana for a futile corner. Mbao wasted another good chance in the 82nd minute when Yusuf Athumani failed to tap the ball into the net as his shot went a few inched over the bar with Shikalo well beaten. Both side made changes with Yanga looking to double their lead by introducing Juma Balinya, Abdulaziz Makame and Patrick Sibomana for Molinga, Feisal Salum and Mrisho Ngasa, while Mbao brought in Waziri Junior and Kauswa Bernard for Adil Sultani and Chiro Mkama respectively. Yanga who kicked the game in high tempo, had dominated the first half which they managed to create several scoring chances, but unfortunately they failed to turn most of them into goals. The visitors had an early chance of the game, but Raphael Daud failed to convert a goal when his shot went off target, and later in the 12th minute David Molinga was denied another chance by Mbao goalkeeper Abdallah Makangana. Mbao, who were led by skipper Said Junior, tried to fight back and managed to create a few chances but, they throw most of them away. The best of the wasted chances for Yanga came a few seconds before the halftime when a counter-attack from defender Juma Abdul, overlapped and released a cross inside the box, but skipper Pappy Tshishimbi’s header was denied by a cross bar with goalkeeper well beaten. Yanga used their game against Mbao as part of the drill and test for their Sunday’s CAF Confederation Cup play-off battle against Pyramids of Egypt at the same venue. Yanga have now collected seven points after playing four games. They have won two, drawn one and lost once. Pyramids who are under the former Uganda Cranes coach, Sebastian Desabre are currently placed at the top of the Egyptian Premier League after bagging 11 points from five games.