TABORA Boys is a living example of the legacy of the Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere as all walls are decorated by his philosophy statements. School Head Master Deograsias Mwambuzi said the aim was to impart to students patriotism which Mwalimu lived as the country commemorates his 20th death anniversary today. Julius Nyerere attended secondary education at the school which was known at the time as Tabora School. He said the school’s foundation stone was laid in 1922 when Nyerere was born, thus there was a need to live by his example and inculcate patriotism and hard work in its students. He thanked the fifth phase government through the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for the school’s major rehabilitation. He said this during a tour to trace Mwalimu’s education history by local journalists. The tour was organised by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. Mwalimu attended the school from 1937-1942 which was by then meant for children from the families of chiefs. Mr Mwambuzi said the statements on the walls were intended to make students know not only his education path, but also the kind of a great man he was and what he attained through his life as a dedicated leader. Mr Mwambuzi noted that they also had a museum which showed Mwalimu Nyerere’s life history since the majority of people were visiting the school to learn who he was and because of this they found it proper to have one. “Mwalimu Nyerere started the independence struggle while at Tabora School and at one stage he rejected the mistreatment of black people by the whites since the school was for colonial masters’ families as well,” he noted. He said that was why the school was twinned with Tabora Girls, noting that it was started to curb dropouts and truancy by then since most of the boys attending the school were married as they were enrolled when they were at least 14 years old. “Most of the students were married and now and then found reasons to visit their families and some would choose not to return to school. Thus, the colonial masters decided to build Tabora Girls and their spouses were enrolled there. Every three months they were allowed to be together and it worked out that way,” said Mwambuzi. Tabora Boys Head Prefect Hamis Edward said whoever attended his education at the school must be of special character as they were groomed to be patriotic, hardworking, committed and well educated as those were some of the attributes Mwalimu advocated