THE government has enough fuel reserve which can serve all people, motorists and aircrafts for at least 30 days, Energy Minister, Dr Medard Kalemani confirmed here yesterday. According to Dr Kalemani, there is enough stock of about 39million litres of petrol while the demand per day stands at 3.2 million per day. Plus, the country has 151 million litres of diesel while its demand is 5.2 million. On the aviation sector, the minister said there was no problem at all as the country had a reserve of 16.8 million litres against the demand per day which stands at 560,000 litres. For people using kerosene at home, the minister said everything was more than okay as the reserve at all depots was 5.3 million litres while the demand was 140,000 litres per day. Analytically, this implies that the distribution of electricity in rural areas through Rural Energy Agency (REA) had reduced the use of kerosene. Dr Kalemani was speaking after introducing the new Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency ( PBPA ) board members who he appointed after the end of the previous board’s term. PBPA is an executive agency established under the Executive Agencies Act Cap. 245 vested with mandates of coordinating and managing efficient procurement of petroleum products through the bulk procurement system. On November 22, 2018, President John Magufuli appointed Dr Lutengano Amwakahesya (former REA boss) to become the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of PBPA after the death of the then Chairman, Steven Ndaki. Dr Mwakahesya led board members since then, and their term expired on June 2, 2019. “This is why I have appointed new board members who will start executing their duties today (yesterday),’’ said Dr Kalemani. The minister listed the four members as Dr Henry Chalu (senior lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam), Salum Mnuna (Chief ICT officer at the Ministry of Energy), Senzo Gwanchele (Manager at TEMESA) and Karolius Misungwi (Assistant Director of Administration at the National Audit Office). After introducing the new board members, the minister asked them to discharge their duties by observing the highest degree of professionalism and efficiency.