TANZANIA Investment Centre (TIC) has registered 227 projects in the past three quarters of this year, with manufacturing sector emerging the most attractive. TIC Executive Director Geoffrey Mwambe told reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the registered projects worth 2.1 billion US dollars are expected to create at least 38,800 jobs. The manufacturing sector, having attracted 129 projects during the period, continues becoming the leading job creator in the investment portfolio in the country. “This is because of existing huge drive towards industrial economy, which has seen policies shaping people’s ideas towards investing in industries,” Mr Mwambe argued. The current industrial policy points to deepening the private sector-led industrial growth as a way of transforming the economy from its heavy reliance on agriculture. They are Tanzania Development Vision (TDV) 2025 and Sustainable Industrial Development Policy for Tanzania (SIDP 2020). “The public and investors are responding to these policies...it didn’t surprise us to see big number of registered projects in manufacturing sector,” he stated. The TIC boss mentioned transportation sector, with 29 registered projects as the second after manufacturing. “Considering our geographical location where we serve land-linked countries, which import cargo through the Dar es Salaam Port, transportation sector becomes vibrant, many people want to invest in it because they get to serve customers within and outside the country,” Mr Mwambe noted. He said during the past three quarters, the service sector became third in attracting investors, with 18 projects registered under TIC. Other sectors with their registered projects in brackets are agriculture (15), hospitality (14), commercial buildings (10), human resources capac-ity buildings like colleges (six), energy (two), finance (two) and telecommunications (two). Mr Mwambe said Dar es Salaam and Coast regions were the most attractive to investors, thanks to their proximity to Dar es Salaam port.