POLICE in Dar es Salaam are investigating the mysterious disappearance of several computers at the Director of Public Prosecutions’ (DPP) office. Dar es Salaam Police Special Zone Commander Lazaro Mambosasa confirmed the incident yesterday, insisting that the law enforcers were thoroughly investigating the issue. “We received report on the incidence on Tuesday morning. We are still investigating, no one has so far been arrested in connection with the computers’ theft,” said the police commander. The ‘Daily News’ attempted to the DPP, Mr Biswalo Mganga, to give more details but his mobile phone went unanswered. The theft comes as the DPP’s office is busy scrutinising several letters that accusedfacing economic charges have written in response to President John Magufuli’s granted amnesty. About 140 people have reportedly been discharged from various remand prisons countrywide after agreeing to compensate the government billions of shillings they had swindled. Reports suggest further that the process was still on to have 500 other accused who had also applied for the pardon. Among the amnesty beneficiaries are Mohamed Mustafa Yusufali, alias Mohamedali, alias Choma, alias Jamalii, who was facing the “Million Saba kwa Dakika,” nick named case. He has been released from remand prison, agreeing to pay over 24bn/-. Others who also entered a plea-bargaining agreement with the DPP on repayment of money include Bank M Chief Executive Officer Sanjeev Kumar Purushothaman alias P. Sanjeev Kumar. Advocates Ringo Tenga and Frank Mwalongo as well as former Managing Director with Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) Peter Noni, Managing Director of Six Telecoms Company Limited, Hafidh Shamte, alias Rashid Shamte and the firm’s Chief Finance Officer Noel Chacha are the beneficiaries. On October 1, 2019, President Magufuli received from the DPP a list of 467 economic sabotage suspects who have opted to plead guilty to their charges and repay over 100bn/- for release from remand prison. During the dossier receipt at the State House in Dar es Salaam, Dr Magufuli extended the deadline for more seven days up to October 7, 2019, to allow other accused who could have failed to meet the initial deadline. The given procedure requires the accused to submit his or her confessions in hand writing to the DPP. The letter initiates a plea-bargaining agreement as indicated under Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), as amended by the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No.4) Act of 2019. When an accused writes to the DPP for plea-bargaining process, they or their advocates or public prosecutors have to notify the court when the case is being presided over of the intention to negotiate the plea agreement as per section 194A (2) of the Act. Dr Magufuli had on September 22, 2019 while swearing in various leaders whom he had appointed, advised the DPP to consider dropping charges facing economic crime suspects through the legal channels should the defendants confess their crimes and repay the loss involved. But, he warned that after expiry of the new deadline there will be no mercy for economic sabotage criminals, ordering the chief prosecutor to press hard on their charges in courts. He assured the suspects and others who have not responded that the amnesty was genuine. President Magufuli directed the DPP to expedite procedures for early release of the suspects, saying, “We also understand that some businesses by these suspects have stalled due to their incarceration, once released they will continue with their businesses from which the government will collect taxes.”