SIMBA SC Head Coach, Patrick Aussems said the motive behind the upcoming friendly games is to give chance to players who do not regularly play for his side. The reigning champions take on Bandari FC from Kenya on Saturday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam before heading to Kigoma to face Mashujaa FC at Lake Tanganyika Stadium on October 14th. Two days later, the Msimbazi Street giants will entertain Aigle Noir (Black Eagles) from Burundi in another squad strengthening match before the Vodacom Premier League (VPL) resumes few days later after the end of International break. As it stands, Simba are yet to test league defeat of the season as they have exceled in all four opening games, collecting maximum points in each battle to reach 12 points at the summit of the table. They have scored ten goals and concede just two goals to keep grip of the 20-team table as they want to retain the league title for the club’s three times in a row. Next opponent, according to the league fixture, are KMC who will test Simba skills on October 19th at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam before then taking on Azam FC in what would be their real test of the campaign. KMC have started the league on the back foot after posting two defeats in their four league matches played, drawing one and winning one match to claim 4 points to sit 16th on the ladder. On the other hand, Azam have not lost a match in their first three clashes, triumphing all of them to remain glued on the second slot with nine points. However, speaking yesterday in the city, Aussems said they simply want to give tempo and rhythm to his players who have not enjoyed more playing time so far in his team. “We can surely not be tactical enough since we are missing about six players who have been included in the national team squad as such, it will be a chance for those who are not featured regularly to showcase what they have,” he said. He also disclosed that his charges are responding well to the gym exercise which have been compelled to do following heavy downpour in the city which had an impact towards the team’s usual training plan. Asked to highlight on the trending issue that his two midfielders Jonas Mkude and Clatous Chama are having tough moment at the club, Aussems replied that both players have apparently been called to serve for their respective national teams hence they do not have any trouble with the club.