TANZANIA Endurance Cyclists Club (teC), the organisers of ‘Twende Butiama’ Cycling race, said 1,300km event was a huge success. One of the event’s organizers Gabriel Landa told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the seven-day race that climaxed on October 14th was a huge success in terms of competition, adventure and safety as all participants returned home safely. It was the race pay homage to the former Tanzanian President, Julius Nyerere who passed away in 1999, thus why organisers decided to pick his Nyerere’s birth village of Mwitongo as the race podoium finish. Landa said that over 110 riders took part though, only 67 of them arrived at final destination. The 1379km cycling race that started at Ubungo in Dar es Salaam on October 7th this year and then went to Msata for an official flag off completed its final round in Butiama, Mara Region after covering over 10 regions. Landa said that it was a successful race no wonders it has all the signs to become a major international race in future. “It was seven days of wonderful race; it was emotion atmosphere when about 67 riders entered Mwitongo accompanied by one of Mwalimu Nyerere’s sons, Madaraka. “Overall we had about 110 riders who joined the race from various points, but could not continue due to other commitments, ” said Landa. He stressed that among participants who arrived at Mwitongo, there were young riders aged between 9, 13 and 16 years and eleven ladies. “To make it special and exciting we had also senior riders aged of from 59 to 66 years. Good thing is that they all returned home safely,” added Landa. Landa congratulated all those who supported the organising committee to insure everything goes. He named them as SAS Logistics, Coca-Cola, MakMar Hotel, Massimo Cycling Club, CHABATA, Azam, Afri-Roots, Stan Tours, Danross, Twibhoki Schools and Nyerere Foundation. “We would like to extend our appreciation also to Matambuu Cycling Club, Darvelo, DAC, Unity Cycling Group, Chabada, UWABA, Duathron and Massimo Cycling who has been good supporter too.” He also thanked government whose security and safety unities helped them much and insured all participants are safe while riding. The longest cycling event ever staged covered Dar es Salaam, Coast, Morogoro, Dodoma, Singida, Tabora, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Mwanza and Mara, covering about 1379 kilometres. Participants came from Coast Region, Dodoma, Arusha, Shinyanga, Mwanza and Dar es Salaam while its organising committee has involved Madaraka Nyerere, Joshua Malanda, Salum Kazoka and Emanuel Manase.