AS preparations for the sixth general election, since the introduction of multiparty system in 1992, gathers momentum. Uncertainty and fear of the unknown grip incumbent Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of the Zanzibar House of Representatives (MZHR) as the electorate will soon decide the legislators’ fate based on their performances. As if that is not enough, the MPs and the Zanzibar representatives are also being evaluated by their leaders in political parties. As they warn that underperforming MPs and Representatives will not be approved for re-election because citizens have been disheartened, hence, they have lost credibility. Elected leaders at all levels including local government, councilors, and the Presidents are being assessed, but both President John Pombe Magufuli and his Zanzibar counterpart Dr Ali Mohamed Shein have scored well in serving the people. Under both Dr Magufuli and Shein, even the implementation of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) election manifesto (2015-2020). While Dr Shein is retiring after serving his two terms, Magufuli has proved that he deserves another five years in office to serve Tanzanians. Who worked hard and who slacked off, among the MPs and Members of the Zanzibar House of Reps? In answering this question(s) this is the second article of a series of articles being run by the 'Daily News' after surveying individual constituencies in Unguja and Pemba Islands, getting views from respective electorates, leaders, and the incumbent legislators. Mfenesini Constituency Parliamentarians are busy struggling to meet expectations of citizens in their respective constituencies, and Mr Masoud Ali Khamis - MP for Mfenesini Constituency on Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) ticket is among them. He is striving to ensure his people are satisfied with his leadership. The legislator has been busy because he wants to make sure that he fulfils what he promised during the campaign for the post, along with implementation of his party manifesto for the 2015/2020 general election by hundred percent. “I am already on track to meet development goals and ensure my electorate are happy with my presence as their legislator in the Union parliament,” said Mr Khamis, a retired Colonel of the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF). Rt Col Khamis stays and lives with his voters because he believes that solving citizens’ problems is the MP’s most important role, followed by law-making, holding government to account and promoting the interests and economy of their constituency. Roads (including the Mfenesini-Mahonda-Chaani road), water wells (at the cost of about 80m/-), construction of school blocks, easing transportation in the constituency by purchasing ten vehicles (Toyota Dyna), and supporting women and youth through economic empowerment. The eight vehicles have been distributed, one each, to all the eight CCM branches so that members can use as commuter vehicles, to generate funds to support the development of the constituency. President Ali Mohamed Shein officiated in the event to handover the cars to the eight CCM branches located within Mfenesini Constituency. The event was witnessed by the party’s Deputy Secretary General (Zanzibar) Dr Abdalla Juma Sadala Mabodi. “We still have challenges in the constituency, but we have been struggling to address them so that all people live comfortably. We have Savings and Credit Cooperative Societies (SACCOS) at Mwakaje Village, with about 80 members who are women,” the MP said. He added that in collaboration with fellow lawmaker, Mr Machano Othman Said, who lives outside the constituency, they regularly listen to wananchi and help them solve their individual problems whenever possible. “We have also improved CCM youth leisure centres (best known as Maskani), and also helped to construct party branch at Chuini Village,” he said. The MP said that they have been supporting nine schools in the constituency including reducing congestion by constructing more classrooms, and that there are enough desks for the students, though most schools still face shortage of desks. “When I started my tenure as legislator, water shortage was arguably the biggest challenge facing the people of Mfenesini Constituency, but the MP says after almost five years of struggle about 80 percent of the residents can now access water from wells or boreholes built by the legislator,” he said. He works with the Zanzibar Water Authority (ZAWA) to plan and construct wells, and towers for holding water reserve tanks. He said that the water utility helped him reduce blues in the constituency. The project was a success as some people connected water pipes to their houses. “Wananchi own the wells, maintain them and also contribute money among themselves, for paying electricity bills for water pumps,” said Mr Khamis, who has been doing business of importing goods from abroad. Masim Building Company has been constructing the wells, about ten wells have so far been built. And, Mr Yusto Nzelwa working for the company at Mwakaje-Kibaoni Village, said they have been going on with water wells/boreholes construction, but climate change contributes to delays in reaching the water table or “sometimes we fail to find water at all.” Lack of enough school infrastructure remains among the burning issues affecting Mfenesini dwellers, admits the Lawmaker. Efforts to address shortage of classrooms and desks have not yielded desired results. “When we were elected in 2015, many schools did not have enough classrooms. For instance, there were over 270 pupils who were learning outside under trees at Kihinani School,” says the Legislator. “We tried to solve the problem by constructing four classrooms; the government helped with roofing, finishing and desks, but with increased enrolment it solved nothing as of today, there are more than 300 students still studying under trees,” he added. In response to growing demand for classrooms and desks after the re-introduction of free education policy, one hundred desks donated by the Union parliament were distributed in Mfenesini, Mwache-Alale and Mwenge. Mr Khamis says despite some notable improvements, the education sector in the constituency is still facing many challenges. “Most of our schools still lack desks, and there is a serious shortage of classrooms in some of our schools,” he said, adding that they are soliciting funds from various sources to build more classrooms, with some projects already underway. CCM- Deputy Secretary General, Dr Mabodi says he is pleased with the majority legislators’ efforts to implement their promises and the party manifesto. “People including CCM members are evaluating their performances. They only want people who can deliver,” said Dr Mabodi. He said that CCM members are allowed to assess each legislator’s performance and join together to celebrate the achievements recorded without using the opportunity to start campaigning contrary to party procedures. The party’s Ten-cell Leader in Mwakaje Village Mr Rashid Abdulrahman said MP Khamis is among leaders who have been doing what they can to serve the people and help the party to grow, “We asked him to rebuild the branch and he did the work.” Community leader for Mwakaje area (Shehia), Ms Asha Ali Mohamed said that as one of the residents of Mfenesini, her colleagues are pleased by the performance of their legislators, but urged them to put more effort in order to address the remaining challenges. “We have been following the performance of the leaders we elected. We are assessing each leader’s performance. So far, the MP has been doing well. We appreciate what he has done for us,” she said. According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), facts suggests that citizens hold parliamentarians to account principally for the services that they are able to deliver outside parliament, not for their law-making role or their ability to oversee the executive. Every MP is indebted to his constituency in the form of being summoned to explain his/her actions on any matter; Visiting local members regularly to show his loyalty; and also listening to their grievances and complaints which will secure their trust in him or her.