GIRLS have beaten boys in this year’s Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLE), with a 3.78 per cent rise in their pass rate. And, interestingly the top ten performers in the last September’s examinations are schools from the Lake Zone regions. The schools with their regions in brackets are Graiyaki and Twibhoki (Mara), Kemebos (Kagera), Little Treasures (Shinyanga), Musabe and Tulele (Mwanza), Kwame Modern (Shinyanga), Peaceland and Mugini (Mwanza) and Rocken Hill (Shinyanga). National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA) Executive Secretary Dr Charles Msonde, addressing reporters in Dar es Salaam yesterday, said 759,737 pupils, equivalent to 81 per cent of the total 933,369 who sat the exams, have passed. He further explained that 395,738, equivalent to 52.1 per cent of candidates who passed are girls while the remaining 363,999, equivalent to 47.9 per cent, are boys. The top ten candidates with their schools in brackets are Grace Manga (Graiyaki-Mara), Francis Gwagi (Paradise-Geita), Loi Kitundu (Mbezi- Dar es Salaam), Victor Godfrey, Aziz Yassin and Goldie Hhayuma (Graiyaki), Daniel Ngassa (Little Treasures-Shinyanga), Hilary Nassor (Peaceland - Mwanza), Mbelele Mbelele (Kwema Modern-Shinyanga) and Nyanswi Richard (Graiyaki). Compared to last year’s performance, Dr Msonde said the overall performance has improved to 81.50 per cent this year from last year’s 77.72 per cent. He said 13,708 candidates, equivalent to 1.45 per cent, did not sit for the exams due to several reasons, including sickness and absenteeism. Dr Msonde further explained that 81 candidates who failed to sit for the exams due to illnesses or whose results have been withheld over some problems that led to their failure to write all or some subjects, will now be given an opportunity to sit for their examinations next year as per section 32 (1) of the exam regulations. Dr Msonde said 759,737 candidates passed their examinations by between 100 and 150 marks. “Statistics from NECTA show that the pass rates had significantly increased in Kiswahili, English Language, Science and Social Studies by between 1.83 and 6.86 per cent compared to results in 2018,” he noted. He added, “Kiswahili had the top score with 87.25 per cent and the subject that received poor performance was English Language with 53.21 per cent.” According to Dr Msonde, performance in Mathematics has dropped by 1.05 per cent compared to last year’s results. NECTA further listed the top ten regions in the results as Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Iringa, Kagera, Katavi, Kilimanjaro, Mbeya, Simiyu, Njombe and Coast. Meanwhile, over 900 candidates in this year’s examinations had their results nullified over cheating. The council alleges that heads of schools, teachers and security guards colluded with invigilators to reveal examination answers to pupils prior to or during the day of exams. Dr Msonde said NECTA has already directed relevant authorities to take stern measures against all people, including security officers, linked to the scam. But, Dr Msonde pointed out that cheating incidents have decreased recently, recalling that in 2011 over 9,736 pupils had their results nullified compared to only 909 candidates in 2019. Dr Msonde said the first cheating incident was on September 12 during Kiswahili exam. Invigilator at Nambalapi Primary School in Tunduru District Council in Ruvuma region prepared answers for the exam questions in the examination room and later sent them through mobile phone to Michiga Primary School Headteacher in Mtwara region’s Nanyumbu District Council for his relative at the school. “Upon interrogations, Michiga Primary School Headteacher Edson Thabit and invigilator Mohamed Ding’ombe confessed to their wrongdoings,” Dr Msonde explained. He further said that the regional examination committees in Singida and Iramba district councils observed that students of Ntwike school were given examination answers under the assistance of their Headteacher Agapito Mlwilo and teachers— Paschal Balohho and Celina Kime in collaboration with the invigilators in the school. “The Ntwike headteacher sent the answers to his Sekenke primary school counterpart in Iramba District council who gave it to the security guard for distribution to candidates in collaboration with invigilators,” he said.