TANZANITE dealers in the region have until Monday to surrender the blue and violet variety of mineral zoisite believed to be hidden in their houses. The government’s sevenday ultimatum follows reports that the dealers secretly sell tanzanite outside the country without involving officers at designated mineral markets located in Arusha and Manyara regions. The move is said to have caused to the government a loss of billions of shillings that could have been saved had it been legally sold. Addressing the dealers on Mirerani hills on Tuesday, Simanjiro District Senior Mining Officer Daudi Ntalima accused unscrupulous dealers of sabotaging the government’s efforts to ensure Tanzanians benefitted from tanzanite extraction and business. “It has come to our attention that some of you are smuggling tanzanite,” said Mr Ntalima while addressing dealers comprising members of Manyara Regional Miners Association (Marema), Federation of Miners Associations of Tanzania (Femata) and Tanzania Mineral Dealers Association (Tamida). He further alleged that there existed a group of 25 mineral dealers who were depriving the government of hefty revenue by engaging in the illegal sale of tanzanite. According to Mr Ntalima, tanzanite smugglers meet at reputable hotels in Arusha and Manyara regions to sabotage the government in the fight against mineral smuggling. The senior mining officer dared those implicated in the illegal business to present to his office authentic receipts that showed how legal their businesses were. “They should prove to us if they really involved our officers at mineral trading centres,” he insisted. He challenged the dealers to abide by mining laws. He further attributed the current drop in tanzanite sales to smuggling by some unscrupulous dealers. “Some potential buyers have stopped buying tanzanite because dealers have opted to hide it in their houses and set prices at will,” he alleged. The senior mining officer accused the dealers of selling to Indian and Sri Lankan businessmen through Kenya, thus depriving Tanzania of hefty revenue. For his part, Simanjiro MP James Ole Millya decried mineral smuggling by unscrupulous tanzanite dealers and said records showed a neighbouring country was the largest exporter of tanzanite while in reality it was only found in Tanzania.