THREE Dar es Salaam residents have appeared before the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court charged with five economic charges, including unlawful possession of three peacocks, which are government trophies, illegally. The accused are David Graha, Mohamed Hatibu and Mohamed Ally. Such charges include leading organized crime, unlawful possession of government trophies, having possession of properties suspected of having been unlawfully acquired, and money laundering. The accused persons were not allowed to enter plea to the charges before Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo because they fall under the Economic and Organized Crime Control Act. They were ordered to go to remand as the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain anything in the trial, including the question of bail, and that money laundering charge is not a bailable offence. The magistrate adjourned the trial to November 7, 2019. Investigations into the matter, according to the prosecution led by Principal State Attorney Faraja Nchimbi and Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, have not been completed. Prosecuting, the trial attorneys told the court that on diverse dates between June 1, 2015 and October 14, 2019, jointly and together, all accused persons intentionally organised a criminal racket of dealing in three exotic birds, namely peacocks without a permit or authorisation from the Director of Wildlife Division. It is alleged that within the said period in Dar es Salaam, the accused persons were found with the birds, which are government trophies, valued at 1,500 US dollars, equivalent to 3,444,150/-, the property of United Republic of Tanzania. The prosecution told the court further that on October 14, 2019 at Mikocheni area within Kinondoni District in the city, Ally was found in possession of the three peacocks, which were unlawfully acquired, the same being properties of the government. Graha and Hatibu were jointly charged with money laundering and that between June 1, 2015 and October 14, 2019 at various places in the city, they acquired 300,000/- while they knew at the time of receipt that such sum were proceeds of predicate offence of stealing. Ally was charged alone with money laundering, and that within the same period and places in Dar es Salaam, he facilitated and counseled Graha and Hatibu to acquire the sum of 300,000/- while they knew at the time of receipt that the same was proceed of stealing, a predicate offence to that of money laundering.