EDUCATION, Science and Technology Minister, Prof Joyce Ndalichako, has called upon business operators to invest in Tv White Space (TWS) technology to enable more rural residents get access to internet service in the country. Addressing the 4th Summit on Community Networks in Africa here yesterday, the Minister, pointed out that internet service was vital to facilitate the country to attain its goal of industrial economy. “I call upon more communication stakeholders, especially business operators, to invest in Tv White Space technology to enable more rural dwellers get access to internet service,” said the minister while opening the Summit. The Summit, which has been organised by the University of Dodoma (UDOM), brings together about 130 participants from various countries in Africa seeking to connect communities in Africa to the Global Internet. Prof Ndalichako hailed UDOM for organising the conference, noting that participants should use the event to seek solutions on challenges facing rural residents in getting access to internet services. On his part, Senior Development Manager for Internet Society, Mr Michuki Mwangi, said community networks provide a sustainable solution to address the connectivity gaps that exist in urban, remote and rural underserved areas around the world. “In Africa where these gaps are more evident, a recent survey was able to identify 37 community networks initiatives in 12 African countries, of which 25 are considered active,” he said. Mr Mwangi observed that given that majority of the population in Africa resides in the underserved areas, where traditional models of providing connectivity find it difficult to be economically, community networks offer a complementary solution to connecting the underserved and unconnected. He said it was important to note that national policy and regulations play an essential role in creating an enabling environment for community networks to emerge and grow, saying unfortunately, few African countries have policy and regulations that support community networks. “We are however pleased to note that the just concluded African Union member states ministers in charge of Communication and Information and Communication Technology (CICT) recognised the need for new strategies and pilot projects to support community networks,” he said. Assistant lecturer and PhD candidate at UDOM, Mr Jabhera Matogoro, said Kondoa Community Networks, which was initiated by him, connects educational institutions in the district and provides fast internet access to community members around the host institutions. “Internet has been a game changer to schools in Kondoa, teachers are able to access to teaching and learning resources which has raised the students’ performance,” he said. Local Access Policy and Regulation Coordinator for the Association for Progress Communications, Prof Carlos Rey Moreno, said that community networks in Africa are thrilling in spite of enabling policy and regulatory environments. “Event like this one and innovations such as the ones used by the Kondoa Community Networks should make regulators and policy makers rethink the way they support these types of connectivity models within their  national frameworks,” he added.