DODOMA Regional Commissioner (RC), Dr Binilith Mahenge, has underscored the need for Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (Tanesco) Central Zone to give special priority to investment projects with productivity. He gave the advice here yesterday while opening the Premium customers and large power users meeting in Central Zone, that among other things aimed at addressing the challenges and come up with the best service delivery that will foster the economy. “Make sure the investors get the best services and reliable power supply, because that is key for the national industrial economy as well as improved socio-economic welfare of the public,” said Dr Mahenge. He called upon the national power utility company to invest in infrastructure development so that they can generate enough energy to meet the needs and demands of the market, taking into account the increasing consumption now that Dodoma is the Capital City. The RC said all hitches should be removed and that Tanesco should come up with a plan to visit their customers and advice them accordingly, before investors come up for any project. He also counseled investors to contact key service providers, including Tanesco, before they set up any projects for consultations and logistic arrangements, and in so doing smooth implementation of the projects. Earlier, Senior Zonal Manager, Eng. Atanas Nangali said they are undertaking a number of projects that aimed at ensuring reliability and availability of energy within the central zone regions of Dodoma, Singida and Morogoro. Eng. Nangali said they are also experiencing increasing number of customers within the zone, from 235,537 in October 2018 to 276,685 this October. As for infrastructure development, he said there are a number of projects to increase production by expansion of megawatts capacity in Zuzu substation in Dodoma, Singida and Ifakara in Morogoro region. Moreover, he said in collaboration with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), they will construct ring circuit in Dodoma City for reliable power supply in the designated capital. Eng. Nangali said the ring circuit will cater for Zuzu to Msalato, Msalato to Ihumwa Government City and Ihumwa- Kikombo-Zuzu.