LOCAL manufacturers are set to gain by using electronic tax stamps (ETS) as they help to curb fake and illegal products smuggled in the market, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) Commissioner General, Dr Edwin Mhede has said. Speaking at Tanzania Breweries Limited Mbeya Plant, Dr Mhede said called on manufactures to continue using the electronic tax stamps for their own benefits and that of the nation through improved tax collection. The TRA Commissioner visited the TBL plant in Mbeya to see how the electronic stamps were used for locally produced beers. He said the stamps were helping in collection of information used for tax estimates and help local producers to know the volume of production and the timeframe. “My message to manufacturers is that they should continue using electronic tax stamps according to the tax laws and regulations as they help in boosting efficiency in production and keep production records,” he said. He however said challenges that may come up in the use of electronic tax stamps should be used as inputs in improving the tax collection system. TBL Manager for Mbeya Plant, Godwin Fabian said the beer firm believed the Electronic Tax Stamp (ETS) had helped local manufacturers to spot illegal products smuggled in the market. “My message to manufacturers, they should take electronic tax stamps as a good thing and they should not be afraid of using them because they help to identify illegal products that enter in the market,” he said. The use of Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS) for excisable goods was introduced to replace the physical paper stamps that were heavily linked to incidents of tax evasion and counterfeiting. It is one of the government’s measures to improve tax administration in the country. TRA rolled out the electronic tax stamp (ETS) in Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Mwanza, Shinyanga and Mbeya early this year after its launch in September last year for beer, soda and cigarette makers. The first phase of the roll out included; Cigarettes, wines, spirits, beer and other alcoholic beverages. According to TRA, the second phase expected to begin in August included sweetened or flavored water and other non-alcoholic beverages.