WATER Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, has named six new executive directors for water authorities in Mbeya, Arusha, Mwanza, Moshi and Bukoba. According to a press statement released yesterday by the Permanent Secretary, Prof Kitila Mkumbo, the newly appointees include Mr Ndele Mengo who has been promoted to fill the post at Mbeya Urban Water and Sewerage Authority (Mbeya-Uwsa). The statement notes Mr Mengo, who has served as technical manager at the utility, will be replacing Mr Simon Shauri whose tenure of service has expired. “This is in accordance with the Water and Sanitation Service Act No 5 of 2019. The minister is hereby making some new appointments to fill vacant posts… the plan is to ensure affordable and reliable water supply in the country,” reads part of the statement. Prof Mbarawa named Mr Aron Joseph as Acting Executive Director for Moshi Water and Sanitation Authority (Muwsa). He will be replacing Ms Joyce Msiru whose service has come to an end. Before his new appointment, Mr Joseph was in charge of the Department of Water Supply and Production at Dar es Salaam Water and Sewarage Authority (Dawasa). In the new appointments, Mr Justine Rujomba has also been promoted to act as Executive Director for Arusha Urban Water and Sanitation Authority (Auwsa). Mr Rujomba, who has been a water engineer at Muwsa, takes over the post left vacant by Ms Ruth Koya. Other appointees are Mr Leonard Msenyele who will act as Executive Director for Mwanza Water and Sanitation Authority (Mwauwasa). He takes over from Mr Anthony Sanga who was recently appointed Deputy Permanent Secretary in the ministry. Before his appointment, Mr Msenyele was Mwauwasa project manager. The statement says further that the minister has appointed Mr Msiru to be executive director for the newly formed Same-Mwanga Water and Sanitation Authority. The Same-Mwanga water utility was formed under the government Notice No 672 of August 23, 2019. The authority will serve Same, Mwanga and other areas covered by Same-Mwanga-Korogwe water project.