SPORTING tourism was the anthem of the 10th edition of 2019 Rock City Marathon that ended in Mwanza over the weekend drawing hundreds of athletes from in and outside the country. The multinationals involvement forced the government to say there is a need to evaluate the impact of the marathon races’ power in promoting and developing tourism industry and its associated economic issues so that it can invest more on empowering the races. Speaking during the climax of the race at the Rock City Mall C in Mwanza, the Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism Hamisi Kingwalla said the bumper entry of participants from in and outside the country, is an indicator that there is a need for the government to use such events to promote tourism. “I have seen hundreds of participants from different regions in the country coming to take part in this race, and that is part of the domestic tourism. Further I witnessed the participation of our foreign counterparts from Kenya, Rwanda and others from outside the African continent.’’ " In order to measure real contribution of these mushrooming marathons in the Tourism sector and Economic Development, I call for scientific research so that the government can know how to support them and enable them to better, " instructed Kigwangalla, who also participated in the 21-km race. Since its establishment 10 years ago, Rock City Marathon has been attracting the attention of Kenyan and Rwandan participants. On Sunday Kenyan athlete Abraham Too emerged victorious in the 42 km race on the men's side after clocking 2:18:34 followed by his fellow Kenyans Willium Koskei and John Muthui who clocked 2:19:06 and 2:21:30 respectively. The only Tanzanian athlete in the top ten was Hamis Athuman who won fourth place clocking 2:21:36 Kenya’s female athletes also won the top five positions in the race with Elilither Tanui clocking 2:42:50 to emerge the first winner followed by her fellow Kenyans Joan Rotich (2:46:07) and Lydia Wafula (2:48:57). Tanzanians Fabiola John and Zainabu Hamis finished in the 6th and 10th places respectively. In the men’s 21km race, Bernard Musau from Kenya emerged the winner after clocking 01:11:26, followed closely by Ugandan athlete Ochieng Julius with 01:11:36. Tanzania Chacha Boy, who clocked 01:12:29, finished in the fifth place. Kenyan Ester Kakuri won the women’s race after recording 1:21:44 followed by her compatriots Vane Nyaboke with 1:22:13 while Tanzanian athlete Grace Jackson finished fifth with 1:24:23 Commenting on the results, Rock City Marathon Technical Advisor John Bayo, apart from congratulating the Kenyan athletes for doing well he said that Tanzania did not get the participation of senior athletes as many of them are currently participating in international competitions and thus giving opportunity to Kenyan athletes to win the races.