THE plea-bargaining process aimed at disposing of 350bn/- economic and money laundering trial of two prominent businessmen, Harbinder Sethi and James Rugemalira, under the amnesty granted by President John Magufuli is still unclear. This follows the position given by Senior State Attorney, Wankyo Simon, when the case came for mention at the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam on Thursday. During the session, only Sethi showed up, while Rugemalira could not come on the grounds that he was sick. Having briefed on the status of investigations of the trial that it was still underway, there was no further information regarding the letters written by the two businessmen to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to conclude any plea bargaining agreements to finalise their case. Another notable aspect is in relation to Sethi, as having written to the DPP, neither his defence counsel nor himself has notified the court over the matter as indicated section 194A (2) of the Criminal Procedures Act (CPA), as amended by the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No 4) Act of 2019. In the circumstances, Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi adjourned the case to November 7, 2019 for mention. Information about the two businessmen’s intention to cooperate with the state came to light on October 10, 2019. While Sethi has expressed in the letter his redness to compensate the government part of the loss allegedly occasioned in the transaction involving the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), Rugemalira is requesting to meet with the DPP to give a detailed account on the matter and be set free. In his letter dated October 4, 2019, Rugemalira is requesting the DPP to exercise his authority under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act to cause his release from the case so that he may effectively continue assisting the Republic to recover over 37tri/- from Standard Chartered Bank and conspirators. The businessman has attached several documentary exhibits to support his position, but he was quick to point out in the letter received by the DPP’s office on October 5, 2019 that he had no grudges against the Republic for having remanded him for such a long time since his first arraignment. According to him, he believes the Republic was misled by the bank and conspirators. He stated that if the DPP was to enter “nolle prosequi” for his immediate release he would be able to effectively prosecute in the High Court and Court of Appeal the pending cases against the bank and conspirators. In such cases, the VIP Engineering and Marketing Limited seeks recovery of more than 20tri/- in financial and economic damages from the bank over which the Republic, through the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), will be entitled to collect over 6tri/- by way of corporate income and other taxes. For his part, though he seeks to pay part of the loss suffered and surrender the IPTL plant to the government, Sethi has allegedly imposed some conditions, including the Republic dropping all economic offences he is facing. In the last court session defence counsel Michael Ngalo (for Rugemalira) requested the prosecution to make a follow-up to the Office of DPP so that his client could get responses on time. Counsel Dora Masaba, for Sethi could not raise any comment on the request. However, the prosecutor informed the court that the letters had been received and were being acted upon. He promised that the accused would get the responses as expected. In the trial, the businessmen are facing 12 counts of conspiracy, leading organised crime, forgery, uttering a false document, obtaining money by false pretences, occasioning a loss to a specified authority and money laundering. Between October 18, 2011 and March 19, 2014, in various places in Dar es Salaam in the United Republic of Tanzania and various places in Republic of Kenya, South Africa and the Republic of India, jointly and together, they allegedly conspired to commit an offence of obtaining money by false pretences. Within the same period in the city of Dar es Salaam, the prosecution alleged, being not public officials, but in collusion with public officers, the accused intentionally and knowingly managed, financed and furthered the objectives of a criminal racket with intent to reap profit or other benefits. Between November 29, 2013 and January 23, 2014 at Stanbic Bank Limited, Centre Branch in Kinondoni District and at Mkombozi Commercial Bank PLC, St Joseph Branch in Ilala District, by false pretences, the accused obtained $22,198,544.60 and 309,461,300,158/27. The court heard further that on November 29, 2013 at Stanbic Bank Limited, Centre Branch in Kinondoni District, by their wilful acts, jointly and together, Sethi and Rugemalira caused the government of the United Republic of Tanzania to suffer a pecuniary loss of the said amount.