MINISTER for Livestock and Fisheries Luhaga Mpina has launched a national livestock dipping campaign to control external parasites such ticks and lice. The campaign, which will run for six months, one cattle will be immersed in a plunge dip for 50/-instead of 500/-and 10/-for a goat or sheep. This will enable the government to save 19bn/-livestock keepers could have used to dip their animals. Instead, only 2.6bn/-will be spent for the purpose in which the government has granted 90 per cent subsidy. Speaking after the launch of the second phase of the campaign in Kikonko, Mlele District, the minister said through such a programme the government would supply 12,546 litres of liquid treatment on 1,733 livestock dips operating across the country. He noted that in one year the government had rehabilitated 400 dips and 639 other dips were yet to be renovated and insisted that all of them would be improved to facilitate the campaign. “More than 60 per cent of human diseases are caused by animal products, including meat and milk. So, the government’s decision to dip livestock aims at preventing humans from contracting animal diseases,” he noted. Following the launch, the minister instructed every village in the country to dip livestock and insisted that the government would ensure every village got a plunge dip as part of improving the condition of livestock. For his part, Katavi Regional Commissioner (RC), Juma Homera assured Mr Mpina that they would supervise the exercise as instructed and no livestock keeper would defy indicative prices announced by the government. On livestock keepers’ complaints to be fined a large amount of money and their being cattle killed he presented complaint documents to the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) and arrest the culprits and prosecute them. Director of Veterinary Services, Dr Hezron Nonga, said the exercise would be held nationwide and urged livestock keepers to cooperate so that they could protect animals from external parasites.