THE Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning Dr Ashatu Kijaji has called on Capital Market and Securities Authority and Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange to step up public education campaign capital market investment to boost awareness on opportunities and benefits of stock exchange. She said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that it was important to increase awareness of general public towards capital market and their investment level and to create awareness about capital market investment so as to attract more investors in stock market. “Awareness creation is an area to work hard. We need to increase public education on capital market to create more awareness of the opportunities and benefits of the market,” said the Deputy Minister at the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) Members Awards ceremony. Dr Kijaji said the government was focused to support the fledgling but ever growing capital market because they are vital for inclusive growth and boosting saving culture among the people. “The government can not distance itself from DSE and its members. Let me take this opportunity to assure you of full government support...” she said. She said government was focused to support growth of capital market as it has positive impact on economic growth. “So you’re assured we are together. After all there is a correlation between vibrancy of stock market and economic growth and development,” she said. Earlier, the DSE Chief Executive Officer, Moremi Marwa said the award were part of DSE efforts to comply with the Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiative, a peer-to-peer learning platform for exploring how exchanges, in collaboration with investors, regulators, and companies, can enhance corporate transparency – and ultimately performance – environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues. The 2018 overall winners were CRDB Bank in the Best Listed Bank of the Year - Main Investment Market segment, Maendeleo Bank in the Best Listed Bank of the Year - Enterprises Growth Market segment, and Orbit Securities as the Best Broker of the Year. Others were Standard Chartered Bank in the Best Custodian of the Year, Vodacom Tanzania, the Best Main Investment Market (Non- Manufacturing) and Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) and Tanzania Cigarette Company (TCC) were named joint overall winners in the Best Main Investment Market (Manufacturing) segment. Tanzania Broadcast Corporation (TBC) were named the Best Digital Media House and Daily News were the first runner up in the Best Print Media House.