THE Business Registrations and Licensing Agency (BRELA) and Tanzania Trade Development Authority (Tantrade) have urged traders to regularly visit the newly introduced National Business Portal, so as to be aware on goods importation and exportation procedures. The call was made on Monday in Dar es Salaam during the jointly organised seminar by the authorities, to educate their staff on how best they can keep on educating the mass on the use of the Portal. BRELA Acting Director, Mr Emmanuel Kakwesi explained that the Portal materials are already made available on various authorities’ websites, responsible for trading issues, including Tanzania Revenues Authority (TRA), Tanzania Medical Devices Authority (TMDA) and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), among others. “This is among of the approaches we have been coming up with, in efforts to improve trading environment for betterment of traders themselves and the nation as a whole,” he said. He further explained that the portal serves in among others, reducing the time traders used to spend on manual/ physical visit to relevant authorities, for having the information and other processes. Again, Mr Kakwesi added, the portal is also for eradicating bureaucracy and serves as one stop center with all business processes being done transparently. Tantrade Executive Director, Mr Edwin Rutageruka commented that not only goods import and export information but the Portal also tells the availability of markets in various parts of the world. He stressed that, searching markets for the locally produced goods and linking the traders with both local and international markets was among of the Authority’s main responsibility, insisting traders to visit the Portal in the name of grabbing markets opportunities. “We also remind the public that our business clinics, launched by the relevant Minister for Industry and Trade in while ago, are continuous ones. They are for solving all challenges facing traders. Let people visit the clinics for having permanent remedy for all trading barriers,” he said. Mr Rutageruka reiterated that, in efforts to make sure that all locally produced goods have reliable markets, the Authority kept on improving trading environments at all borders country-wide, with all those information being available on the Portal, which is to be launched soon by relevant Minister for trade issues. “Every Authority has its staff at all borders to provide quick and timely services. We have also communication means for traders to communicate with head offices of all those authorities, in case one faces any difficultness. The telephone numbers are pasted on the main entrances of the authorities at borders,” he stressed.