THE government plans to submit amendments to the investment law in Parliament next month to get a legal backing in the implementation of the blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve business environment. The Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Investment), Angela Kairuki said in Dar es Salaam that a draft of the proposed changes to the Tanzania Investment Act, 1997 had already been prepared and adopted by the cabinet. “We will make significant changes to the investment laws in November. The aim is to make sure we facilitate you in a better way,” she said when opening the 3rd Oil and Gas Congress yesterday. The minister said proposed amendments would provide for a stage for a raft of amendments to laws and regulations governing the conduct of business in Tanzania. The blueprint prepared after thorough consultation with various private sector associations and World Bank officials will see the government initiate amendments of various laws. The government has adopted a blueprint for regulatory reforms to improve business environment that was prepared after thorough consultation with various private sector associations and World Bank officials. The reforms, which were developed as a collaborative effort between the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment on the one hand, and the private sector on the other, seek to improve the country’s ease of doing business through regulatory reforms and to increase efficiency in dealing with the government and its regulatory authorities. It lays down the foundation for the government’s resolve to achieve a semi-industrial economy by 2025, as it seeks to enhance a conducive business environment by carrying out holistic regulatory reforms. The Blueprint seeks to put in place a framework for addressing regulatory hurdles and create a smart, functional and fair business regulatory regime in Tanzania. The minister said the government would like to guarantee local and foreign investors that a mechanism will be put in place to address challenges in doing business in Tanzania. She hailed organizers of the congress for including an aspect for outstanding women in the oil and gas industry to recognize their key role in the development of the industry and inspire more women into the industry. “Women have records for delivering excellence in all sectors when given equal chances. I urge all stakeholders, through this 3rd Oil and Gas Congress to reconsider notions related to working conditions that have hindered women prosperity in this strategic industry,” she said. According to the organizers of the congress, the objective was to provide a platform for discussion on the existing challenges, and also the opportunities which exist for women in the oil and gas industry and to highlight case studies of promotion of a more gender balanced workplaces in the industry. The 3rd Oil and Gas Congress has been organized by Ocean Business Partners and CWC Group to showcase investment opportunities in the oil and gas industry in Tanzania.