NEITHER 9mm Luger pistol nor heavy machine gun can demolish Egyptian Pyramids in Mwanza today, only Katyusha barrage can do it, Tanzanian envoys Young Africans are at CCM Kirumba frontline ready for the job. Towards today’s CAF Confederations Cup play-off first leg match, Yanga through their assistant coach Noel Mwandila, said they are well drilled for Pyramids demolition mission and the arrival of their key players; Paul Godfrey and Mapinduzi Balama, has been the vital enforcement. THE return defender Paul Godfrey and winger Mapinduzi Balama have been reported a big boost for Yanga ahead of their Confederation Cup play-off match against Pyramids today. Defender Godfrey, who missed several matches after sustaining knee injury, is reportedly back and ready to serve his team in today’s game. Godfrey, who has been useful for his side building attacks, has been feeding scorers with well-calculated cross balls that most often result into goals. He said his comeback is a vital weapon for Yanga in their Sunday clash against Pyramids, who are trying to book a place in the group stage. Apart from the defender, the return of the flying winger Balama who returned to action on Tuesday’s match against Mbao played an active role in his team’s 1-0 victory. His assist enabled his team mate Sadney Urikhob to score the winner at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Adding, Yanga Head Coach Mwinyi Zahera said his team is well organised in all departments to ensure they get good results in their today’s crucial game. “We have rectified our players mistakes and I promise we will use all our chances that we will create’’ Zahera said. Zahera dismissed the threat of a poor record his team had against Egyptian teams saying that is just a history and should be ignored and forgotten. Record in eight previous encounters against Egyptians is not good though football changes and so are the players and the management. Yanga have lost five times to Egyptian giants Al Ahly, twice to Cairo rivals Zamalek and once to Ismaily. But the Pyramids coach Sebastian Desabre is still hopeful to do well banking on his vast knowledge of East African football. Desabre who coached Uganda Cranes and helped the team to play in Africa Cup of Nations Final in Egypt, said he knows how to deal with Yanga. The Egyptian money Moguls (Pyramids FC) coach claims he knows very well Yanga SC and promised they will battle to ensure that his team gets the victory in the today’s game. Ahead of the today’s crunch battle Desabre said his team is better organised to win the game which is very important to them. ‘’It’s an important game for us because it’s our last game before the group stage. It will be a difficult game, but we have quality players who will make us win this game,’’ he added. The former Asec Mimosas, Recretivo Club de Libolo, JS Saoura and Wydad Athletic club coach, Desabre said he knows very well East African teams. He said their goal now is to make sure they win both their first and second leg matches. The former Uganda Cranes coach said he knows Yanga players and pointed Juma Balinya, Kelvin Yondani and Makame as among the key players, but assured his players will fight to win at any cost.