PAN-African Telecoms Group, Liquid Telecom, has appointed a Tanzanian, Mr Hussein Kitambi, as the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO), for its subsidiary company in Tanzania, Raha Liquid Telecom. The Liquid Telecom is a leading communications solutions provider across 13 countries primarily in Eastern, Central and Southern Africa that serves mobile operators, carriers, enterprise, media and content companies and retail customers. It has built Africa’s largest independent fibre network, approaching 70,000km and operates state-of-the-art data centres in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Nairobi, with a combined potential 19,000 square metres of rack space and 80 MW of power. In its statement to the ‘Daily News’, Mr Adil El Youssefi, Liquid Telecom East Africa’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), said Mr Kitambi would bring international cross-functional experience from the telco industry and has worked in different countries across the Africa region. “He comes with a proven track record in improving operational efficiency, leading businesses through change, and interpreting business strategies into actual operating results,” Mr Youssefi stated. He explained that the company is upbeat about a future of Raha Liquid Telecom and believes that Mr Kitambi will take the company to new heights in Tanzania. “His talent, vision and insights will create new relationships, transform business strategies and bring positive changes to the business,” he assured. Prior to this appointment, Mr Kitambi was working as Managing Director for SimbaNET overseeing operations in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, where he was responsible for delivering business platforms to corporates and SMEs. At the same time, Hussein also served as Chief Executive Officer (CEO), for Wananchi Group Tanzania looking after the B2B and B2C markets. Prior to this position, he worked as Chief Operation Officer for Wananchi Business Service Unit (WBS), a business division for Wananchi Group, based in Nairobi, Kenya. “I look forward to working closely with customers in Tanzania, and helping them achieve their digital transformation,” said Mr Kitambi said.