PRESIDENT Ali Mohamed Shein on Tuesday officially launched the new electronic Identification Card (ZanID), and called on the Zanzibar Civil Status Registration Agency (ZCRSA) officers to perform their duties diligently, faithfully and with patriotism. President Shein said the use of new electronic Identification Cards have many economic, political and social benefits to Zanzibari’s, and that was the reason behind the government’s decision to invest a good amount of money in the technology. “This is a very sophisticated technology, we wanted the best, and we had to invest handsomely for this modern electronic system, which is used by many countries,” said Dr Shein. The colourful event at the former House of Representatives Hall, named after the third Zanzibar President Idris Abdul Wakil, attracted past and current senior public servants and ordinary citizens. The first electronic card was presented to the incumbent Isles Head of State, with First Lady, Mwanamwema Shein, Ambassador Seif Ali Idd, Speaker Zubein Ali Maulid and Dr Ali Gharib Bilal following up. A total of 400 cards were issued out to senior leaders and ordinary citizens on the day, in which the president stressed on the significance of the exercise, which started a year ago. While hailing the Civil Status Registration Agency for a commendable job over the past one year, Dr Shein urged those tasked with the registration processes to adhere to core legal aspects (issuance of certificates, authenticity and citizen identification). “There has been good progress so far, those tasked with the registration exercise are doing a great job, you should keep discharging your duties diligently, maintain discipline and be patriotic,” said Dr Shein. He reminded the registration officers and other officials involved in the registration processes that they were entrusted to carry out a very significant task, and it is important that they abide by the laws and execute their duties honestly as well as ensure the right of every citizen is observed. “The Agency’s officers must be trustworthy, and while carrying out this exercise, they must adhere to the relevant laws and ensure only those who qualify are issued with the IDs,” he said. “The citizens should also help in identification of people around them, this task should be borne by every Zanzibari, not the Zanzibar Civil Status Registration Agency alone,” he added. Dr Shein warned against those who preferred short cutsand favoritism, saying measures will be taken to whoever is found guilty of breaching the rules and regulations governing the issuance of the IDs. President Shein said it was the right of every eligible Tanzanian citizen to get the new ID, and that the government has established registration offices in all eleven districts of Zanzibar to take the services closer to the people. The Executive Director of Zanzibar Civil Status Registration Agency, Dr Hussein Khamis Shaaban, said the new IDs were being issued to Zanzibaris and alien residents as per the country’s laws. He said the new smart cards have four features in the chip: electronic Identification (e-ID), electronic Driving license (e-DL), electronic Health Card (e-health), and electronic wallet (e-wallet). He insisted the owner of the ID will be able to access financial and other important services and be eligible for voting. The Minister for State, President’s Office, Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Departments, Haji Omar Kheri said the use of smart cards was a move in the right direction for Zanzibar.