EAST African Community (EAC) has decided to make intra-regional and continental trade its top priority. The high level three-day conference in Nairobi, Kenya came out with recommendations that promotion of intra-regional and continental trade should remain the core objective of integration. The EAC Common External Tariff will now be reviewed to enhance internal trading environment and promote value chains for regional industrial development. A comprehensive strategy will be developed, taking into account an appropriate technology. The strategy will ensure availability of skilled manpower and financial infrastructure for affordable financing, harmonise tax policies and ensure that EAC rules of origin are supportive to the development of value chains in the region, enhance collaboration between applied research, academia and private sector while enhancing the competitiveness of industries in the region. In view of that, development partners will have to shift focus from humanitarian issues to supporting concrete means of industrialisation such as marketbased interventions that are private-sector friendly. The report made available to the ‘Daily News’ from Nairobi where the meeting took place had it that the East African region will adopt emerging Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies such as robotics, Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence (AI), Harmonise laws and tax regulations, strengthen EAC dispute handling mechanisms, enforce self-regulation by private sector and governments support SMEs. Another recommendation is for the region to enhance data analysis aimed at identifying consumer trends, conduct intensive change management to create awareness on the available technologies and platforms that have been developed to facilitate trade in the region, develop measures to curb cyber-crime which impede the benefits of digitisation. There will also be operationalisation of the Trade Remedies Committee as a regional mechanism for dispute resolution; women and youth agendas at all levels of decision making be addressed as separate sectors to develop strategies that will address their concerns; regional trade agreements to be respected and implemented by members in order to access benefits. There has also been a call to implement existing agreements on airspace with the intention of achieving open skies to increase free movement of people across East Africa and the African continent. As from now, the key determinants of negotiating new agreements should focus on value chains, export diversification and addressing supply chain. In addition EAC should undertake comprehensive assessments of future impact on domestic economies, including industrial and tax implications, resulting from implementation of new agreements. Member-states will have to strengthen the existing mechanisms to enhance infrastructure efficiency and invest in other modes of transport such as railways, water and develop regulatory frameworks to facilitate Public/Private Partnerships (PPP). EAC will explore sustainable mechanisms to enable the East African Court of Justice (EACJ) to effectively implement its mandate; re-visit the EAC integration process to establish what is working and what is not working. Additionally, there is need for improved and more strategic engagement between the public and private sectors to enable the private sector to contribute effectively to the integration process and it is imperative for the private sector to drive the EAC integration process and reinforce advocacy in order to address critical challenges in the business environment. The conference was held to commemorate 20 years of the EAC and 15 years of the East Africa Customs Union. The overarching goal of the conference was to have an open, honest and critical self-examination as a region, with regard to what has been achieved, what has worked and what needs to be done to move the regional integration forward as well as improving the EAC trade policy and other instruments. The outputs of the conference are key to making EAC an attractive investment bloc, boost industrialisation, infrastructure development as well as embracing emerging technologies for economic development. The future of the EAC can only be assured if there is continued support by all Partner States, both at policy formulation and implementation levels. The conference noted that there has been remarkable progress made on the EAC regional integration pillars namely the Customs Union, the Common market Protocol, the Monetary Union and the Political Federation.