TANZANIA Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) has completed drilling one of the three oil wells in ongoing oil exploration efforts. This is the 2bn/-project that TPDC launched early this month in response to President John Magufuli's directive that Tanzania should also embark on exploration and research to strike its oil in basins. Two years ago, the president challenged TPDC during a ceremony for the launch of the construction of a crude oil pipeline from Hoima in neighbouring Uganda to the port of Tanga in Tanzania. Upon completion, the pipeline will transport oil from Uganda to Tanzania before being shipped to foreign markets. TPDC revealed at the Coast Region industrial exhibition which ended Wednesday that its team of experts has already completed drilling a well at Kining'inila village in Igunga District and has taken a sample from the well for research. TPDC Public Relations and Social Development Officer, Eugene Isaya said drilling at the first well took about three weeks and it is estimated it may take between 40 and 60 days to complete all three wells. The team has embarked on drilling a second well in Meatu District before going for the last one in Iramba district. "After completion of the drilling of the three wells, samples will be taken for laboratory tests and thereafter we will release results over oil deposits in those areas," Mr Isaya noted. The exploration will involve drilling of wells with a depth of 300 metres each in Eyasi Wembere basin. The project is implemented by Tanzanian experts using local funds and locally-made tools. Mr Isaya said once oil is discovered it would give relief to transport costs for industrialists and customers since fuel prices would go down. Fuel prices have differed from region to region depending on the distance of a particular region from Dar es Salaam where there are depots for imported fuel. Oil exploration activities in Tanzania began in the 1950s. Since then 23 deep test wells have been drilled and more than 30,000 kilometers of seismic lines recorded. Currently, 116,580 square kilometers of the country is under license, representing about 55 per cent of the total area covered by potential petroleum basins.