THE government has opened a special account at the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) where all money paid by accused persons, who are charged with economic cases and obtained presidential amnesty granted by President John Magufuli recently, will be deposited. This was revealed in Dar es Salaam by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Mr Biswalo Mganga, who insisted, “It is not in the Judiciary account these money will be deposited, but it is in a special account at BoT, which has been opened under the government’s order,” he insisted. According to him, judicial officers have already been notified on the issues as well as some senior government officials have also been notified, thus, no money will be paid into the Court’s account or into the National prosecution’s Office or even the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA)’s account. “It is a special account that has been opened at the BoT. The person who will pay such money elsewhere should not blame anybody. All the money must go where they are supposed to go,” the DPP maintained. The ‘Daily News’ witnessed last Friday some of the accused persons involved in the matter, who managed to meet the plea-bargaining arrangements at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam were being direct to go to the Central Bank to deposit the money. It was a hectic exercise, as 44 persons charged with economic cases worth billions of shillings, who were yesterday brought in court under the presidential amnesty failed to complete the plea-bargaining process for lack of communications between the prosecution and defence. Most of the accused persons were summoned from their respective remand prison cells at Keko and Segerea were not prepared to take part in the exercise as there were no initial arrangements were previously made. Advocates for some of them were event not aware of the exercise. Magistrates who presided over the sessions postponed the sessions to today. In some other occasions, there was confusions as to the implication and consequences of letters sent to the DPP by accused persons, seeking to admit to the charges, repent and promise not to repeat committing similar crime. A good example involved a Chinese national Cheng Guo, who is charged alongside five others with dealing in government trophies worth over 200m/-. He polluted the process having being brought before Principal Resident Magistrate, Huruma Shaidi and recanted his letter he wrote to the DPP. “I wrote a letter to the DPP complaining on inordinate delay of investigations into the case and, thus, I sought for forgiveness. I did not indicate my redness to plead guilty. I don’t have money to pay,” the accused told the court. Under such circumstances the magistrate had to adjourn the matter to today. However, there were eight other accused persons, whose cases involved little sum of 154m/-managed to complete the process legally under the plea-bargaining provisions. They were Bui Thi Yen Nhi, a Vietnamese and Yasin Katela, a local businessman. The rest are Sergeant Ally Chibwana (47), the TPDF member, who resides at Kongowe, Corporal Swahiba (38), a resident of Kitunda, Police Constable (PC) Elidaima Paranjo (38), who lives at Kivule, PC Simon (28), residing at Tabata, PC Dickson (36), who stays at Kitunda and PC Hamza (28), who lives at Ukonga. Such accused persons pleaded guilty to the new charges they were charged with by the prosecution in consideration to the presidential pardon and plea-bargaining agreements reached and were thereafter given lenient sentences. Before Senior Resident Magistrate Wanjah Hamza, Bui, a Vietnamese confessed to one count out of three of dealing in government trophies worth 4900 US dollars (11,000,500/-) and was sentenced to a lenient sentence of paying 22m/-fine or go to jail for 15 years in default. Katela, whose case was conducted by Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba, was convicted on his own plea of guilty to one count of money laundering and sentenced to either paying 100m/-or go to jail for three years in default of paying the fine. He paid the fine. Before Resident Magistrate Vick Mwaikambo, Sergeant Chibwana, Corporal Swahiba, PC Paranjo, PC Simon, PC Dickson and PC Hamza were convicted of only one count instead of three relating to theft of 2180 litres of jet fuel worth 4,647,760/-. Having pleaded guilty to the charge, the magistrate proceeded to sentence each to pay 500,000/- and pay the 4,647,760/-, as loss compensation to the government. The accused also forfeited to the government property the fuel in question.