SOME 397 cases of early pregnancy have been re- ported at police stations in Rukwa Region during the period of one year and nine months from January 2018 to August this year. The Rukwa Regional Commissioner, Mr Joachim Wangabo, made the disclo- sure while opening a spe- cial meeting of stakeholders held here over the weekend to discuss early child preg- nancy in the region whose rate is at an alarming rate. The meeting was con- vened and coordinated by Plan International through Uzazi Salama – Rukwa project. Mr Wangabo further revealed that out of the reported cases, 138 cases were heard in courts, of which 23 won while 77 are in different stages of hear- ing . “Eight accused persons were set free and 30 cases were dismissed for vari- ous reasons,” the RC said, adding that 151 cases were closed as the accused per- sons were absent while 108 cases are still in the investi- gations phase. “Challenges of early pregnancies are at alarming rate in the country and our region is among the regions across the country leading statistically by having a high rate of early pregnan- cies as well as school girl pregnancies, which have negative impact on their health and their wellbeing,” noted the RC. He further listed several challenges that cause the rate of early pregnancies in the region to spiral, includ- ing delays in reporting the cases to police stations, key witnesses not appearing in courts, difficulties in prov- ing cases beyond reasonable doubts and victims turning into hostile witnesses. While submitting reports on early pregnancies in Ruk- wa Region , the Regional Social Welfare Officer, Mr Godfrey Mapunda, said ac- cording to the Tanzania De- mographic Health Survey (TDHS- 2015/16), the rate of early pregnancy in Rukwa Region is 29 per cent, which is high compared to the na- tional rate of 27 per cent . According to TDHS, six regions have alarm the rate of early pregnancies includ- ing Katavi region with 45 per cent followed by Tabora region with 43 per cent, Morogoro and Dodoma have 39 per cent , Mara 37 per cent, Shinyanga 34 per cent and Mbeya 33 per cent . Contributing dozens of participants said that due to Fipa tradition it was very dif- ficult for the mother in law to haul her son in law into court for allegedly impreg- nated her minor daughter. Similar sentiments were echoed by the Rukwa Re- gional Chief Sheikh, Rashid Akilimali. On his part the Nkasi Dis- trict Commissioner (DC) Mr Said Mtanda said that early pregnancies is at alarming rate in Nkasi District that 200 school girls have termi- nated studies after being im- pregnated during the period of six months from January to early July this year alone.