...As Tanzanians and well-wishers mark his death’s 20th anniversary ON this very date 20 years ago, Tanzania lost one of its noblest citizens, the founding Father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, an African and global statesman who steered the then Tanganyika protectorate from the British colonialism to independence on December 9, 1961. A few years after the independence of Tanganyika, Mwalimu Nyerere, in collaboration with the then President of Zanzibar, Sheikh Abeid Amani Karume, united the two countries to form the United Republic of Tanzania on April 26, 1964. The late Father of the Nation, fondly known as Mwalimu Nyerere, breathed his last at Saint Thomas Hospital in London, United Kingdom, succumbing to leukemia. The death plunged the country into total shock. Apart from steering Tanganyika to independence, Mwalimu Nyerere is remembered for playing an instrumental role in the liberation movements of southern African countries which were still under colonial rule after Tanganyika gained its independence from Britain in 1961. Mwalimu Nyerere’ domestic, international and diplomatic roles in the liberation struggles are profound through his position as a Head of State and Chairman of the then Tanganyika African National Union (TANU), the predecessor of the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM). Speaking in a previous interview with ‘Daily News’, former Prime Minister Mr Cleopa Msuya, remarked: “Mwalimu Nyerere will be highly remembered for uniting us as a country. He did a wonderful job of creating national institutions that brought all Tanzanians together,” the retired citizen who served as Prime Minister under Mwalimu Nyerere between 1980 and 1983, told this paper. Similar views are echoed by former Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Pius Msekwa, who penned an article recently in the ‘Daily News’, recalling how Mwalimu Nyerere’s political career started during the period of his employment as a teacher at the then Saint Francis College, now Pugu Secondary School. “When he was elected as Chairman of the Tanganyika African Association (TAA); which was, at that time, a mere welfare social organisation for African civil servants, he turned it into a formidable political organisation called the Tanganyika African National Union (TANU),” Mr Msekwa stated in the article. According to Mr Msekwa, who was once a student of Mwalimu Nyerere at Saint Francis College and later worked under his leadership, engagement of Mwalimu Nyerere with politics put him in trouble with colonial authorities. The former Speaker on the other hand spoke highly of incumbent President John Magufuli for implementing many of the projects which had been envisioned by Mwalimu Nyerere, such as Stieglers gorge hydro power project, currently known as Mwalimu Nyerere hydro power plant along Rufiji River. Mr Msekwa also hailed Dr Magufuli for his bold move to shift the country’s capital from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma which had been Mwalimu Nyerere’s dream since the 1970s. “I remember attending a meeting chaired by Mwalimu Nyerere, which agreed on forming an entity that would spearhead the transfer of the government seat from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma. President Magufuli has made this dream a reality,” Mr Msekwa remarked. The transfer of the capital city from the coastal city of Dar es Salaam to Dodoma Region was completed last Saturday after President Magufuli officially announced that he had moved to the central region. This is after all government ministries shifted to Dodoma. Among major achievements of Mwalimu Nyerere is his role in the establishment of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU)’s Liberation Committee which was actually formed following the summit of Heads of States in Addis Ababa and the Extra-ordinary Summit in Cairo in June 1964. Mwalimu, as a founder of TANU and champion of the liberation struggle, sticks out as a seasoned statesman, a diplomat, a wise man, a political thinker, a visionary and selfless Pan Africanist who abhorred injustices of colonial governments. It is with these qualities that Mwalimu Nyerere managed to galvanise all the efforts to his disposal to remove the humiliation of colonialism from the face of Africa. His multifaceted roles with other internal and external leaders, together with the backing of the population in Tanzania, produced the right results in Africa. The enemies of the struggle had but to succumb to the people’s power. It must be borne in mind that Mwalimu Nyerere’s contributions are enormous and they cannot be separated from the people of Tanzania, as their working relations are symbiotic. Tanzania also enabled liberation movement cadres to go for scholarships and military training inside and outside Tanzania and issued them passports and other documents allowing them to leave and re-enter Tanzania. Former presidents Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Samora Machel of Mozambique and Sam Nujoma of Namibia are among former revolutionaries who were issued with Tanzanian passports during the struggle. President Mandela acknowledged this fact in his book detailing how the travelling documents issued by the government of Tanzania enabled him to travel to various countries.