THE advent of multiparty politics in Africa in the 1980s put a cap in the tenures of political office bearers. Those who overstay in office are faulted for violating Constitutions and denying citizens of their democratic rights to elect whom they like. I see it differently! To me, tenures are a problem only when there’s failure in leadership, when there’s very little to celebrate or where corruption, injustice and bribery are rife. Many activists and advocacy groups “criminalize” the tenures only, overlooking performance, accountability and economic progress. Term limits by themselves are nothing. Democracy devoid of economic development is useless. Let’s link or “tie” the tenures to excellence in performance of the elected leaders. Patriotic, committed and accountable leaders propel their countries. “Reward” such leaders with longer tenures. Likewise, restrict the tenures of ineffective leaders to one term or even shorter. It’s suicidal to the electorate or country to have a “democrat” (as defined by the west) when the economy on which he presides is a rot, “thieving” and economic “rape” are endemic. The poor and the vulnerable suffer the most under such regimes. The history of developed countries suggests that it was only after they attained economic prosperity that they institutionalized “democratic” tenets such as the right to vote, tenures, free speech and others. If real democracy is economic prosperity, them telling us otherwise is deceitful. They are fooling us. Thus, we need to define our own form of democracy that fits within our norms and emancipates us economically. This is what happened in Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia and of late, Turkey, along with Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.. As I once said, Singapore’s transformation is perhaps the most telling. The acumen of its first Premier, Lee KuanYew, who ruled for 31 years from 1959- 1990, changed Singapore from virtually nothing to the envy of the world. Lee was visionary, candid, innovative, uncompromising, action-oriented and pragmatic. He waged a merciless war on corruption, targeting top officials, imprisoning them even for accepting small favours (“takrima”). He dispensed severe penalties for law breakers and instituted tight restrictions on inflammatory, hate and divisive speech as well as protests which he deemed an economic waste. He was often quoted as saying “If nobody fears me, I am meaningless”. Labelled as a dictator by international activists and liberal media, he nevertheless transitioned Singapore from a resource-less and poor country to a developed nation in 25 years, making it into a manufacturing, shipping, financial and educational hub. Today, Singapore scores number 1 or 2 in almost every socio-economic indicator. Corruption is virtually non-existent. Shame to his critics! South Korea’s economic turnaround is equally impressive. The transformation heightened during Park Chung-hee’s18-year “iron” rule from 1961-1979. Initially a mere exporter of human hair, the country became a manufacturing giant through an ambitious export-oriented industrialization. With the Japanese economic model in hindsight, the Government selected and promoted its “Mengis”, “Mufurukis”, “Bakhresas” etc. by giving them special favours such as low interest loans and export market support. The country invested heavily in infrastructure and quality education. These measures, along with the firm commitment of the leadership to economic change, propelled South Korea to a middle-income status country in 10 years; an unimaginable feat any country has ever achieved. Like Singapore, South Korea was, at the time, never spared of human rights criticisms. Similarly, Malaysia underwent rapid modernization under Dr. Mahathir Mohamad; the country’s longest serving Premier (23 years, 1981-2003). He instilled discipline and accountability at work places, undertook mega infrastructural projects, commercialized agriculture, empowered the indigenous Malays (without “upsetting” the affluent Chinese), boosted a home-grown industrial base and established centres of excellence, Multimedia Super Corridor and e-Government. He supervised development programmes in person. Despite his great achievements, he too was criticized by international and local activists on free speech, media content and human rights. Leaving China aside, Turkey is a more recent success story. Its economic revival started in 2003 under Prime Minister (now President) Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. He channeled heavy investments into agriculture, disadvantaged regions, roads, airports and high-speed railway. Turkey is now among the world’s top 20 economies; renowned for its high quality textiles, furniture, transportation and construction equipment, consumer electronics, automobiles and agricultural products. Again, you have heard of criticisms labeled against Turkey on human rights issues. Why did the above leaders succeed? One, they were unyielding, or in the language of the west, iron-fisted. But this was their number one success factor anyhow! Ironhandedness excels where civility fails. Two, they were visionary, and believed in themselves. Three, they rejected their countries’ status quo. Four, they detested corruption. Five, they sacrificed friendship (cheap popularity) for justice. Six, they were a hands-on leaders. Nothing slipped, nothing slept. Seven, they were brutally candid, and made themselves, and their cabinet ministers, accountable to people. In Malaysia for example, Ministers were assessed annually of their performance. Eight, they were focused, never distracted or swayed from their goals. Nine, they put faith in the private sector. And ten, they all enjoyed longer tenures to see their development programmes through. As we craft a “Tanzania Mpya”, our ultimate “democratic” acid-test should be the extent to which our leaders are able to move Tanzania up the development ladder or at the very least, turn it around into a robust and sustained trajectory. As it stands, the incumbent is doing exactly that. He is committed to prospering Tanzania. Without question, he’s patriotic, visionary and inward-looking, putting the interests of the country first. He’s serving, not stealing. He’s steadfast and has zero tolerance on corruption and embezzlement. He’s a trusted custodian of the rule of law, ensuring “equal” justice for all. No one, rich or poor, is above the law. He’s tough on criminality, and soft on the law-abiding and the hard working. He’s committed to uplifting the poor by being people-centered. He walks the talk. He’s God fearing and righteous, openly accountable to the electorate. Not a crony of external suckers. The tax burden is not only on the poor and the working class as it used to be, but on the rich as well. He’s a problem solver. No leader has crisscrossed the countryside by road, meeting with poor villagers and solving their problems on site, as the incumbent. My village got an access road this year for the first time in 27 years (well, perhaps previous administrations didn’t know we existed!). These are the type of leaders that would steer Tanzania out of poverty and wean us from “donors”. No country has ever developed from donor funding. Based on the political economy of Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia and Turkey; we would be naïve not to give our incumbent an extended mandate, given his demonstrable track record. He excelled as Cabinet Minister for 20 years. I would give him another 20 years for the presidency, to surgically rid this country of the deeply-entrenched economic and financial thuggery. His extended tenure would compare well with that of Mahathir (23 years), Lee (31 years), Park (18 years), and Erdogan (16 years so far).Constitution? What constitution? It’s not a holy script! We have the liberty to change it as we deem fit. We should not be deterred by criticisms, inside or outside, in changing the Constitution, so long as we believe it’s good for our country. We do not owe anybody anything. Henceforth, we should stop benchmarking ourselves against the democratic credentials of the west as we’ll never pass the test. Their democracy is theirs, not ours; it suits them, not us. Above all, we haven’t gone through the full democratization cycle that they have had. *Abdallah Mohammed Kiliaki once worked for the Jeddah-based Islamic Development Bank, Coopers & Lybrand (T) Associates, Ministry of Finance & Economic Affairs of The Gambia, Uyole Agricultural Centre in Mbeya and Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). Contact: 0683 096 000 / 0652 998 675 email: akiliaki52@gmail.com/amkilia-ki1952@hotamil.com