PRESIDENT John Magufuli has threatened regional and district leaders to hold them accountable if their areas underperform in the ongoing registration of voters for the November civic polls. Regions and districts which will underperform in voter registration, he warned, “should not blame me for the measures which I will take against them.” He gave the warning yesterday as he wound up his nine-day tour of the three regions of Songwe, Rukwa and Katavi. His remarks came just a day after Minister of State, President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government Selemani Jafo said some regions had performed poorly in the first two days since the voter registration exercise began on October 8. According to Jafo, in the first two days Dar es Salaam registered voters by 8 percent, Kilimanjaro - 12 per cent and Arusha 13 per cent while regions which performed well were Iringa , Mbeya, Songwe and Tanga. Jafo requested the president to consider holding accountable such regional and district authorities and other executives. He said that election was a development agenda and that negligent leaders should be held accountable. The voters' registration exercise kicked off on October 8 this year after the official launch by President Magufuli in Nkasi District during his tour of Rukwa Region. This exercise will reach its climax tomorrow. Meanwhile, President Magufuli launched a new Air Tanzania Company Limited route from Dar es Salaam to Mpanda in Katavi Region. The launching ceremony was held at Mpanda Airport and attended by various leaders. The president commended ATCL for responding promptly to his call he made three days ago to the company of launching a new route from Dar es Salam toMpanda. He said that the government will continue strengthening the aviation sector and promoting economic growth through tourism, trade and investment. Apart from purchasing another new aircraft scheduled to arrive later this year, the government has also procured another three aircrafts with the aim of boosting the sector. ATCL Managing Director Eng Ladslaus Matinde said the new Dar-Mpanda route will be once in a week and “will extend the service in the near future to three times in a week depending on demand."