MORE Tanzanians will now be reached in health insurance coverage following a 20bn/- grant from the German government to improve Information and Communication Technology (ICTs) systems of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). The government yesterday signed the grant which will see the improvement of services of the NHIF and extend health insurance coverage countrywide. Finance and planning Permanent Secretary Doto James and the Charge d’affaires of the German Embassy in Tanzania Mr Jorg Herrera, signed the agreement in Dar es Salaam. “Strengthening of the ICT in Health Insurance System will improve recruitment of more members to Health Insurance, including the informal sector,” Mr James stated. He said the project would strengthen ICT by establishing modern and functioning ICT equipment and systems. He further explained that efficient and effective ICT systems will enable the NHIF to improve service provision to its members and ultimately achieve universal health coverage in Tanzania. Other benefits from improved ICT systems include enhancing business automation and leveraging existing IT system as a result of multiple health insurance schemes. He noted that the government plans to attain universal health coverage and that will be achieved through implementation of Single National Health Insurance Fund (SNHIF), which will be compulsory to all Tanzanians. The process of establishing the same is at different stages within the Government, he further explained. “The SNHIF will widen the scope of services to rural and uncovered areas; therefore there will be a great need of ICT improvement,” he noted. Over the past four years, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany committed grants amounting to Euro 213 million, equivalent to 533.14bn/- to support the sectors, including health. On his part, Mr Herrera said the ICT project will strengthen the efficiency of the health insurance system through digitisation and marks an important stepping stone on the Tanzanian government’s path to reach Universal Health Coverage. “We commend the Tanzanian Government on their strong leadership and their efforts to attain universal health coverage in the country,” he said. He affirmed that Germany was very proud to support the Tanzania government in its endeavour to improve the efficiency of health insurance system through ICT solutions.