PRESIDENT John Magufuli yesterday expressed disappointment over Kiwanja Secondary School students’ unruly behaviour by torching two dormitories on Sunday night after their phones were confiscated by the school authorities. He said that it was unacceptable for such acts to be allowed to continue and commended Mbeya regional authorities for the disciplinary measures they instituted against the culprits. “ We cannot allow such evil acts in our schools because the government is disbursing billions of shillings for the construction of classrooms and schools and then some students decide to set fire on the buildings,” he remarked furiously. Addressing Songwe residents at Chama Cha Mapinduzi grounds in Mbozi District as he commenced his tour of the region, President Magufuli stressed that the students deserved harsher punishment than the one meted out by Mbeya Regional Commissioner Mr Albert Chalamila. He explained that all 390 Form V and VI students had been fired and the school board had been disbanded due to negligence . The President said that the money spent on constructing schools was being contributed by poor parents, stressing that such act should be taken seriously. He said the students will only be allowed back to school after their parents had paid the money as instructed by the regional authorities for the construction of the two dormitories. Earlier, Mbeya Regional Commissioner Mr Albert Chalamila ordered the students to leave the school premises and return on October 18 this year . The RC said that students who were involved directly in setting fire to the structures will be required to pay 500,000/- each while others will pay 200,000/- each. Reports from Mbeya Region said that Police in Chunya District, were holding five students suspected to have set fire on two dormitories at Kiwanja secondary school. According to the school administration, the act was linked with an abrupt search in the dormitories which led to the confiscation of 26 student’s cell phones which they held contrary to school regulations. The school’s headmaster, Elly Mnyarape said that the search and confiscation irritated students, who then retaliated by torching the dormitories. Police had earlier arrested 19 students in connection to the arson but 14 were removed from the list and released after lengthy interrogation sessions by CID officers. Corporal punishment is lawful in schools in mainland Tanzania under the National Corporal Punishment Regulations 1979 pursuant to article 60 of the National Education Act 1978, which authorises the minister to make regulations “to provide for and control the administration of corporal punishment in schools.” Government guidelines in 2000 reduced the number of strokes from six to four and stated that only the heads of schools are allowed to administer the punishment, or any teacher sanctioned by the head of the school.