TANZANIA U-20 team, Ngorongoro Heroes today takes on their Kenyan counterparts in Gulu, in northern Uganda in the CECAFA U-20 finals. Both teams were in the same Group B during the preliminary rounds of the tournament, and Ngorongoro Heroes finished on top of the group despite getting similar points with their Kenyan counterparts. To reach the finals, Ngongoro Heroes beat their North Sudanese counterparts by two goals to nil and Kenya beat Eritreans through spot kicks after playing an one all draw. The merging of players from Azam FC, Mtibwa Sugar and former Serengeti Boys led by Kevin John did the trick in getting the best team that has this year reached the CECAFA final and are highly tipped to win the tournament. Ngorongoro Heroes who are coached by a former Mtibwa Sugar player, Zuberi Katwila could probably be an answer to present Taifa Stars’ endless woes. Indeed, instead of clinging to those less committed Simba and Young Africans players, probably it is time to forge the new Taifa Stars through the blending of the present Ngorongoro Heroes with the nine based foreign players led by Mbwana Samatta and Simon Msuva. The presence of Kelvin John and Andrew Albert Simchimba should finally help Taifa Stars in getting an answer to their past wastefulness in front of their opponents’ goals. There is nothing one can say today, in terms of providing advice to the team, over what they should do against their Kenyan counterparts in the final today. But the fact that Ngorongoro Heroes are where they are today means they are good enough to take on their Kenyan opponents today. Therefore if there is any advice that Ngorongoro Heroes need is what Katwila in conjunction with the TFF ought to do about the team now that they appear to provide the country’s hope and answer, going forward, to Taifa Stars mounting problems that include a blunt forward- line. But as I have times without number said in the past, if we want our national soccer teams to do well, we need to provide them with adequate top flight international matches. But that can only be realized through the provision of as many friendly matches as possible and against leading African national soccer teams. Providing Taifa Stars with many friendly matches as possible will also help the technical department of the team to find out not only the team’s problems, but also to try their players in different positions before they settle for players they think are not only capable, but also deserve to put on the national colours. As we all know, residential training is good, but does not help in forging out a well drilled team. In residential training a team can learn technique and tactics and also build the magical four S, through lengthy passing game than can take even two hours. But having built the team’s magical four S in terms of strength, stamina, speed and suppleness, the team now needs to test its endurance through friendly matches. That is why it is always important to combine residential training and many top flight international friendly matches in order to get the required results. Indeed, it’s through a team’s exposure to friendly matches that the technical bench comes to learn the individual players’ weaknesses and how to deal with them when it comes to really, competitive matches. The more international friendly matches a team is provided, the more the technical bench learns how to deal with the team’s variety of problems which could include, among others, weaknesses in protecting their goal when the team is under attack. What to do when they lose the ball to their opponents and the team’s general build, in the course of play. Getting the team straight into a competitive match, as what TFF has always done, is not different from driving a car with a black covered windscreen and we all know what this would lead to, a certain car crash. We all need to learn from what top flight soccer clubs do in Europe. They provide the coach with the money for buying the players he wants. They also provide him with money for taking the club anywhere in the world for training and they also provide adequate money in terms of salaries to the players and the technical bench. And when such a team fails to perform, they sack, immediately the manager and his technical bench for failing to deliver having been provided with all he had wanted. But what do we do? We get foreign coaches and when they fail to deliver because we had not provided them with adequate friendly matches before the competitive tournament we go ahead and sack them sometimes without paying their salaries! Actually I’m told by people inside the TFF that sometimes even the players the new coach is supposed to train are provided to him by TFF! Now how do you sack a coach who did not have the mandate of selecting players he thought would have helped him?