AT least 16.9 million voters registered for local government elections 2019 by Wednesday with Dar es Salaam leading other regions with 89 per cent of registered voters. Briefing reporters on voter registration on Wednesday, State Minister in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) Selemani Jafo said Arusha had a small number of voters registered by Wednesday. “Only 37 per cent of voters in Arusha City Council registered for local government elections by Wednesday,” said the minister while briefing reporters after extending the deadline to yesterday. He noted that so far 74 per cent of voters had registered for local government elections scheduled for November 24, this year. “Dar es Salaam tops other regions with 89 per cent of the registered voters. It is followed by Coast Region (86 per cent) and Tanga Region (81 per cent),” he noted. Mr Jafo said 15.5 million voters (68 per cent) had registered by the deadline extension on October 14 nationwide as the Coast Region topped other regions with 80 per cent of registered voters at the time. “Before the deadline extension, Dar es Salaam was second with 77 per cent of registered voters and Kilimanjaro was the last with 48 per cent of registered voters,” he said. Mr Jafo called on politicians to stop misleading people with fake figures of voters registered for local government elections and that they should focus on actual statistics on voters who had registered so far. “There is no dilly-dallying as regards voters who showed up for this year’s registration for local government elections,” he said. Mr Jafo said in 2014 only 11.49 million of voters registered for local government elections, which was equivalent to 62 per cent of the targeted voter registration. The minister denied circulating reports that civil servants were forced to register, insisting that there was no civil servant forced to register and no action would be taken against civil servants who didn’t register for local government elections.