MAJOR players in the global oil and gas sector will convene in Dar es Salaam today for a two day oil and gas congress which will highlight investment opportunities in the booming sector. The Chief Executive Officer of Ocean Business Partners, Abdulsamad Abdulrahim said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the congress, to be held at Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre, would focus on exciting investment opportunities in the oil and gas industry, strategies to boost industrialisation and new oil and gas projects in the region. "This will be another opportunity to explore strategic importance of Tanzania as a major energy hub in East Africa and the potential of major developments in the energy sector," he told reporters ahead of the congress organised by CWC Group with Ocean Business Partners as local partners. Tanzania boasts estimated recoverable gas reserves of over 57 trillion cubic feet (tcf), mostly in southern offshore fields. A consortium of international oil companies to start building a long-delayed liquefied natural gas (LNG) project in 2022, the Minister of Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani said in Parliament in May. The government said in March it planned to conclude talks in September with a group of foreign oil and gas companies led by Norway’s Equinor on developing the LNG terminal. Equinor, alongside Royal Dutch Shell, Exxon Mobil and Ophir Energy and Pavilion Energy, plan to build the onshore LNG plant in Lindi region. He said over 600 delegates had confirmed to participate in the congress making it a bigger event than the second oil and gas congress held last year. The congress would also provide a two-day platform strategic networking with key decision makers in the government and in the major oil and gas companies, he said. Mr Abraham also a member of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF) Board of Directors said the congress would showcase investment opportunities in the oil and gas sector and focus on creation of partnerships between local and international companies. It is expected to address latest industry updates in Tanzania and upcoming future projects, best practices in the oil and gas sector and short-term supply and demand in the oil and gas sector. The congress would also address major and potential future projects which include gas and LNG developments, Tanzania Zambia pipeline, upcoming Kenya gas pipeline, gas distribution project, he said. It would also address issues in the local content and fostering SMEs participation in the oil and gas economy and government and industry collaboration, he said. "The main objective will be to promote industrialisation agenda and connect local entrepreneurs and international investors, to create business and investment opportunities and building human capacity," he said. Mr Abraham said various government ministries, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), Petroleum Upstream Regulatory Authority (PURA), Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA) and National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC), were supporting the event and have confirmed to participate.