UNSEEN by the audience, ever smiling Teddy Kalanda Harrison is everywhere at the National Stadium, the venue of the ongoing East African Arts and Culture festival. Kalanda is arguably the East African peace-and-hospitality advocating legend whose single hit Jambo Bwana has assured foreign visitors and tourists that East Africa is peaceful, trouble-free and friendly. Kalanda brothers, through the Jambo Bwana idiom, have their vivid image in the fourth edition of Jumuiya ya Afrika Mashariki Utamaduni Festival (JAMAFEST 2019) whose theme is “Cultural Diversity: A Key Driver to Regional Integration, Economic Growth and Promotion of Tourism”. Jambo Bwana has not been the hit played for the Kenyans, Ugandans or Tanzanians alone; The region’s most inviting song, has been widely played in the tourist class hotels to non-east African audiences or tourists to the extent it has arguably advocated the region’s peace and tourism more than people assigned to that job. He is not alone in advocating peace, tourism and regional integration, though; Many others have done so in one way or another through arts, music, films and sports. Originally known as Hakuna Matata, Jambo Bwana was penned by Kalanda in 1980 and was first recorded by Them Mushrooms. The recording sold over 200,000 copies between 1982 and 1987, receiving the platinum certification in Kenya. Additional renditions followed with recordings produced in Sudan, Ethiopia, Dubai, Germany, France, Holland, Belgium, Canada, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Switzerland. Stop there! Go back twenty years when Congolese Ndombolo was at its peak. It was in 1999 when Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam staged a six-band concert that drew musicians from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Kenya and Tanzania. Kenya’s hotel music bands Safari Sound and Them Mushroom were there against Ndombolo fanatic Wenge Musica Ile Paris from DR Congo, Diamond Sound and FM Musica based in Tanzania and they were joined by Tanzania’s hotel music guru Kilimanjaro Band (Wananjeje) The audience just stood watching the Ndombolo styled performances of Wenge Musica, Diamond Sound and FM Musica that was mostly dominated by monkey-walk dancing. What was showcased by three bands gave the audience a clear picture that concert camouflaged a stiff competition between Congolese and East Africans. “Can you beat them? ” I asked Mohamed Mzingo, the bassist with Safari Sound. “Wait and see how we do it,” he coolly responded. When Safari Sound performed, it was clear that their songbird Susan Chiro was the night magician. Teddy Kalanda was there too with his usual broad smile. “Can Them Mushroom outclass them?” I asked him after the end of FM Musica performance. Responding, Kalanda said a band that manages to entertain multinationals can do well anywhere because the musicians know their taste and feel. “You will see it yourself when we play, just wait,” he said as Safari Sound were called on stage. The performance of the three hotel bands Safari Sound, Them Mushroom and Kilimanjaro Band silenced the Ndombolo maniacs as the bewildered audience stormed the dancehall to show the popular round dance (Mduara) very common in Tanzania and Kenya. Music has told much about East Africa and East Africans from the days of legends such as Fundi Konde, Daudi Kabaka, Philly Lutaaya, Mbaraka Mwinshehe to the current era of Diamond Platinumz, Joseph Chameleone, Bebe Cool, Victoria Kimani or Sauti Sol. We should put into consideration that music has managed to tell us about ourselves and as well tell the world the best from our region because it travels fast and is boundary-less. With music fully involved, we commend the impact that JAMAFEST has brought to the East African Community (EAC) and echo the sentiments of the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Governments), Suleiman Jafo, that through peaceful and friendly events like JAMAFEST, the region can strengthen security and peace since it is closely related and friendly. Such festivals and exhibitions that use arts, crafts, traditions and culture help to cement the bond between EAC member states.