SPEEDING of cross-border trade is likely to grow economy of the neighbouring countries, a fact that requires no politicking, but support from all stakeholders and the public. The recently launched One Stop Border Post (OSBP in Tunduma (linking Tanzania and Zambia) has not only strengthened a long existed friendship between the two countries, but has also paved the way for faster cross-border movement of people and goods. The OSBP has in reality strengthened the neighborhood of the East African member states and their people as ‘One Destiny’ dream is slowly being realised through various initiatives taken to harmonize the movement of people and goods. The multi-trillion projects funded by Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA) is one of the components of the East African Trade and Transport Facilitation project. Apart from the construction of the OSBP, the projects include the facilitation of trainings by TMEA to border staffs to enhance and harmonise their working environment. The Tunduma/Nakonde ( the part of Zambia) OSBP is current operational and the users, among others, truck operators, businessmen and border staff logistic agents and passengers have hailed TMEA for the timely establishment of the state-of-the art facilities, not only to reduce cross-border time, but also to enhance business and partnership of East African people and their movement. The newly established one stop border post has also reduced time for service delivery/ clearance time of goods and passengers at border crossings where officers of all government agencies from both countries are housed in one building next to each other. Previously, traders using the Tunduma border were slowed by tedious clearance procedures at the two customs points, which required inspection at both sides of the border (on the part of Tanzania and Zambia). This process created delays and congestion at the border posts, according to many of the drivers who were interviewed by this reporter. They say it took up to two weeks for goods to move from one side of the border to the other, with much of the delays taking place at the clearing posts. Zainabu Jumanne, a woman driver, who is driving a Lake Oil Lorry to and from Zambia says that she can now quickly clear for her truck at Tunduma OSBP because the officers of the two countries work together. ‘When I get here, I do not use much of my time, I quickly go for the check-up and within a short time I leave to proceed with my journey”, she says. “When I go to the cargo inspection area, I’m cleared within a short time because of the joint inspection being done by all responsible authorities like Tanzania Bureau Standards (TBS) and Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), says a married lorry driver." She says that before the OSBP, while going to Zambia, she had to go for a full check-up at Tunduma, on the Tanzanian border and had to drive again to the Nakonde border on the Zambian side for a yet another boring full check-up. She says she no longer walks for double border-check up again in collaboration with the government for the establishment of the post graced by presidents; John Pombe Magufuli of Tanzania and his Zambian counterpart, Edgar Lungu. ‘When I come from Zambia, I do my check up at Nakonde border of Zambia and skip the Tunduma OSBP of Tanzania,” ‘When I also go to Zambia, I do my check-up at Tunduma OSBP and skip the Nakonde border of Zambia,” ‘Skipping one border during entering or exit has reduced much of the time, compared to the past when I was required to stop at all borders,” she says. She says the double-border check-ups did not only increase delays, but had always increased costs to traders to affect the final consumer, this, according to her, affected the growth of business in the region. ‘This consumed a lot of time whereby a driver could use weeks just for the cargo checkup and clearance”, she says. “ But the newly introduced OSBP has now increased efficiency by reducing time and transport costs incurred by businesses, farmers and transporters while crossing from one partner state to the other”, she says. Having driven for many weeks because of border delays was something irritating to her to miss her husband and family. “I thank God my husband has always been supportive because he was aware of the border crossing time’s mismanagement by then,” she says. “I always had his support and sometimes he escorted me in my trips,” she says. Dinus Musabududinda , a businessman from Lubumbashi Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), says that he had experienced a lot of delay in the past before the OSBP, but now the situation has changed. ‘If you finish all the stuff so quickly, you can use very little time to cross the border”. “We were much affected by the old border crossing system because we used several days and hours to clear our cargo and spend out our budget to affect the final consumer”. “But now a businessman will have to delay himself should he not be ready to meet all the procedures, like clearing of the cargo and pay duties”, he says. A businessman can delay some hours on cargo inspection because it is done manually by the custom officers”. It is a dream of Musabududinda and other businessmen to see the cargo inspection being done by using scanners for an effective and quickly scanning, rather than inspecting by unloading the cargo to save more time. With his little experience of border crossing, he says things have changed for better services. Daina Hussein, a small business woman who crosses the Tunduma border to Nakonde exporting among others, maize and potatoes, says that doing business at the border was much easier for her because of the OSBP. “In the past, some traders used to cross the border by using illegal ways because of inconveniences and bureaucracy,” “We used lengthy of hours just to clear the cargo, but now its done in a short time when we advance fulfill all the procedures”, she says. “You can also cross the border for free if you have loaded a small luggage,” says a small businesswoman. The construction of 14 billion state-of-the-art border post at Tunduma in Tanzania and Nakonde in Zambia was financed by Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA), an organisation that aims to improve trade competitiveness in East Africa by reducing transport time and costs and improving the trade environment. Speaking during the inauguration of the Tunduma OSBP, President John Pombe Magufuli commended the construction of the post, saying it will ease doing business between the two countries and within the southern African region. President Magufuli directed relevant authorities, including the Tanzania Revenue Authority and the Immigration Department to ensure that they removed all hurdles that frustrated doing business between the two countries and the southern African region at large. "People in our two countries should do business in very friendly environment. This will help to improve their welfare as well as improving the economies of the two countries," said Magufuli. For his part, President Lungu said the construction of the one stop border post will facilitate trade among the 16-member countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) that boasts a market for 344 million people. On average, about 600 and private vehicles use the Tunduma OSBP border point each day. The introduction of the one stop border post has brought many benefits for both people and goods in transit. The Tunduma has more than 30 governmental departments, among others, customs and immigration check points, an inspection hall, clearing agents block, police, officers of forestry, healthy, TFDA and TBS in a move to reduce border crossing time.