PRESIDENT of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (IRMCT) Judge Carmel Agius has assigned Judge Vagn Joensen to indict Rwandan Augustin Ngirabatware on several charges of contempt and incitement to commit contempt. The charges against former Rwandan Minister for Planning and member of the National Republican Movement for Democracy and Development (MRND) have been formally filed. IRMCT Prosecutor Serge Brammertz filed the charges in Arusha pursuant to his authority stipulated in Articles 1(4)(a), 14(1) and 16(4) of the Statute of the Mechanism and Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence of the Mechanism. Ngirabatware is individually criminally responsible for contempt of ICTR and IRMCT by disclosing classified information regarding protected witnesses and for having prohibited contacts. He is accused of pressurising some witnesses against him in the case that saw him convicted to recant their testimonies and is said to have done that through telecommunications from United Nations Detention Facility (UNDF). He is alleged to have prepared a letter and consequently a witness recanted her testimony. Ngirabatware is alleged to have offered and paid bribes to protected witnesses in exchange for their cooperation with his defence as a means to achieve his objectives to be released from a detention facility and that was between 2015 and last year. Brammertz mentioned those involved as intermediaries to be Maximilien Turinabo, Anselme Nzabonimpa, Jean de Dieu Ndagijimana and Marie Rose Fatuma – who were last year arrested in Rwanda. Ngirabatware who was born on January 12, 1957 in Nyamyumba Commune, Gisenyi Prefecture, Rwanda was appointed a minister in 1990, a position he retained as part of the Interim Rwandan Government in April 1994. He was also a member of the Préfecture Committee of MRND political party in Gisenyi Préfecture, the national committee of MRND and the technical committee of Nyamyumba Commune. He was arrested in Germany on September 17, 2007 and was transferred to ICTR on October 8, 2009. The ICTR Trial Chamber convicted him of genocide, direct and public incitement to commit genocide and reduced his sentence to 30 years imprisonment. At all times relevant to the indictment he was detained at UNDF in Arusha.