THE number of accused persons allegedly linked with the killing of leading elephant conservationist in Tanzania, South African Wayne Lotter, has reached 18. This followed the decision by the prosecution to join a resident of Dodoma, Abdallah Bawaziri, alias Bawaziri, in the murder trial which is pending at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam for committal proceedings. Before Senior Resident Magistrate, Kelvin Mhina, the 57-year-old accused person was not allowed to enter a plea to the charge because the case will be heard by the High Court upon completion of investigations. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, informed the court that investigations into the matter had not been completed. The case was adjourned to November 8, 2019, for mention. Other accused persons in the murder trial are Burundians; Habonimana Nyandwi, alias Ogistee and Nduimana Zebedayo, alias Mchungaji, Khalid Mwinyi, alias Banyata, a banker and his sister, Rahma Mwinyi, alias Baby, a businesswoman. Others are Mohamed Maganga, an office attendant, Godfrey Salamba, Innocent Kimaro, Chambie Ally and Allan Mafuwe, who are all businessmen, Robert Mwaipyana (31), a bank officer and Ismail Mohamed, alias Machips, a Somali national. In the same boat are Leonard Makoi, Amini Sham, Ayoub Selemani, Joseph Lukoa, Gaudence Matemu and Abuu Mkingie, who are all businessmen. The prosecution claims that on diverse dates between July 1 and August 16, 2017, within the United Republic of Tanzania, all accused persons conspired to murder Wayne Derek Lotter. It is alleged that on August 16, 2017, at the junction of Chole and Haile Selasie Road within Kinondoni District in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam, the accused persons murdered Wayne Derek Lotter, a South African anti-poaching campaigner. Wayne Lotter was shot when he was being driven from the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere International Airport to his hotel when his taxi was stopped by another vehicle. Two men, one armed with a gun, allegedly opened his car door and shot him. Lotter was a director and co-founder of the PAMS Foundation, an NGO that provides conservation and anti-poaching support to communities and governments in Africa. Since founding the organisation in Tanzania in 2009, he had received numerous death threats relating to his work. It is alleged that Wayne devoted his life to Africa’s wildlife, from working as a ranger in his native South Africa as a young man to leading the charge against poaching in Tanzania. In 2009, he teamed up with Krissie Clark and Ally Namangaya to form the PAMS Foundation. Together, they worked tirelessly with communities in Tanzania to protect the country’s wildlife. Through his work with PAMS, Wayne helped train hundreds of village game scouts throughout Tanzania. His groundbreaking work in developing an intelligence-based approach to anti-poaching helped successfully reverse the rampant rates of poaching, and he helped to dismantle some of the most important ivory trafficking syndicates in Africa. Though he knew his personal safety was at risk, he never backed down from the fight. Wayne’s charm, brilliance and eccentric sense of humour gave him the unique ability to make those around him constantly laugh and smile.He died bravely fighting for the cause he was most pass.