COFFEE farmers have been urged to use new varieties of both Arabica and Robusta coffee seedlings that guarantee high yields at low production cost compared to the old varieties. Chief Executive Director of Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (TaCRI), Dr Deusdedit Kilambo said researches conducted by his institute across the country in recent years in all coffee producing zones show that the new varieties of both Arabica and Robusta coffee seedlings reduce production cost and provide high yields per unit areas compared to the old varieties. “We interviewed small holder’s farmers, cooperative societies, large coffee estates, coffee farmers groups, coffee buyers as well as agricultural inputs traders and proved that the new varieties are better,” he said. He added, “With the new varieties of Arabica coffee seedlings planted in the northern zone regions a total of 1,331 kilogrammes of coffee in a hectare while with the old varieties only 666 kilogrammes are produced.” He said with the old varieties a total of 3.23m/-, 3.75m/- and 3.86m/- for the northern zone, southern zone and southern highland zone regions, respectively are the cost of production in a one hectare farm. With the new varieties of Arabica coffee seedlings he said the same was proved to be 2.63m/-, 2.90m/-and 3.04m/- in the respective zones. The old varieties with 666 kilogrammes per hectare and with the average price of 3,000/- per kilogramme generates about 2m/-. Farmers still planting old varieties of Arabica coffee are always getting a loss tuned to 1.33m/-, 1.75m/- and 1.86m/- in the northern zone, southern zone and southern highlands regions respectively. On Arabica coffee grown in Kigoma and Mara regions he said with the new varieties farmers in Kigoma region are realising a profit of 1.43m/- while getting a loss tuned at 1.13m/- in a one hectare farm when applied to old varieties. “With the new varieties of Arabica coffee seedlings in Mara Region farmers are realising a profit of 1.57m/- from a one hectare farm while getting a loss of 1.60m/- from the same one hectare farm,” he said. On Robusta coffee grown in Kagera Region he said the new varieties of Robusta coffee farmers are realising a profit of 1.12m/- and a loss of 1.34m/- from farms planted with the old varieties all from one hectare. The new varieties of both Arabica and Robusta coffee seedlings have the characteristics of being resistant to coffee deadly diseases namely Coffee Berry Disease (CBD) and Coffee Leaf Rust (CLR) for Arabica coffee and Coffee Wilt Disease (CWD) for Robusta type of coffee.