FORMER Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda yesterday offered what the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere would have done in seeking solutions to some of the challenges facing the world today. “Having worked with him and being his follower… he would have advocated for multilateralism in providing collective solutions to the challenges that none of our states can address alone,” the former prime minister stated. He added that the founder of Tanzania would have pursued a trajectory of development that would create a more equitable and democratic international system, choosing engagement rather than disengagement. “He would also have emphasized putting the dignity and worth of the human person at the front and centre of all our endeavours,” he thought of Mwalimu Nyerere’s possible stance. Mr Pinda was speaking at a symposium on the 20th commemoration of late Mwalimu Nyerere held at Peking University, Beijing, China. He said this year was an eventful year for China and Tanzania because it had three great significances to the shared history of the two nations. “First, we celebrate with Chinese people the 70 years of the great revolution that gave birth to the People’s Republic of China. Second, we celebrate 55 years of our formal diplomatic relations. And third, we are celebrating 20 years of the life of Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere whose friendship with the late Chairman Mao Tse tung built a foundation for our all-weather relations that happily exists between our two countries. You cannot mention relations between China and Tanzania without mentioning Mwalimu Nyerere and Chairman Mao,” he stated. China was Mwalimu Nyerere’s second home and therefore was a right place to commemorating him. He described the late Mwalimu Nyerere as a family man, religious and a follower, Mwalimu, a peasant, President, statesman all in one, he further remarked. He said Nyerere was a very humble man, the man of his word and an unshaken conviction about humanity, justice and progress. Mwalimu Nyerere’s shining star illuminated even beyond the continent. Internationally he was recognised as a man of principle and staunch advocate of social justice. “Such a description is well embodied in our foreign policy to date. His commitment to multilateralism, non-alignment and South-South Cooperation was unshaken and unmatched,” Mr Pinda explained. Tanzania and China signed the Sino-Tanzania Friendship Treaty in 1965. Since then the relations between the two countries grew from strength to strength and have endured all hardships and won the test of time. Likewise, Tanzania, using her position as the President of the United Nations General Assembly, fought round the clock to ensure China secured her rightful seat at the United Nations Security Council. That role well played later made Tanzanian candidate Dr Salim Ahmed Salim who contested for the position of United Nations Secretary General to be vetoed by the UN Security Council member. “It was therefore a momentous day for us to witness President Xi Jinping awarding Honourable Dr Salim with the medal at the 70th Anniversary of the People’s Republic of China,” he mentioned. On other hand, the former Prime Minister conveyed President John Magufuli’s message of solidarity and comradeship to the leadership of Communist Party of China (CPC), the Government and the People of China. Mr Pinda said President Magufuli was looking forward with great anticipation to his promised maiden visit to China in the future. Tanzania’s Ambassador to China, Mbelwa Kairuki, said his work as Ambassador of Tanzania to China has been made easy in many ways, thanks to the solid foundation of friendship built by Mwalimu Nyerere and Chairman Mao.