OVER 800,000 children under five years old in Kagera Region are expected to get measles (rubella) and polio vaccinations during a campaign which starts today. The campaign was earlier scheduled for last month, but it was postponed to October 17-21, this year. Tanzania joins the rest of the world to immunise children against measles and polio. Kagera Regional Medical Officer (RMO), Dr Marco Mbata, told ‘Daily News’ in an interview in Bukoba that 492,393 children would be vaccinated against measles and 226,066 children would be vaccinated against polio. “I appeal to parents to bring their children so that they may be vaccinated against these diseases. This is how we can eradicate them,” he said. The campaign is part of the implementation of the government’s plan to reduce the number of deaths and disabilities resulting from vaccine preventable diseases. There is a global campaign going on which if carried out effectively polio should be eradicated like smallpox which is now no more. He reiterated that the government was committed to ensuring people accessed social services, including health, education and water and make the campaign succeed. Speaking on measles in the country, Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Ummy Mwalimu said last month the disease was reported in Kashasha and Kakoma divisions and Kibare Village in Kyerwa District in Kagera Region. A total of 17 patients underwent laboratory tests and seven of them were confirmed to have measles. She said the last patient with measles symptoms was reported in Kibare Village on September 14, this year. There is no other patient reported in the past two weeks and those who were found with the disease have recovered. “Health workers educate people on preventive measures against the disease and create awareness about the nationwide campaign against measles,” she said. Measles is a highly contagious viral disease. It remains an important cause of deaths among children globally despite the availability of a safe and effective vaccine.