THE Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH) is set to allocate a 750/m- fund to 60 innovators who emerged winners in the Science, Technology and Innovation Competition which was held in Dodoma last year. The money was released by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, towards promoting innovations in the country, the Commission’s Buni Hub Manager, Ms Patience Abdlahaman said yesterday in Dar es Salaam. He was speaking during a high level panel discussion focused on “Accelerating Digital Economy in Africa, Leaders’ Perspectives’, organised by the UN women in partnership with Sahara Ventures. The Hub Manager further explained: “Having discovered that there are so many unknown young innovators in various parts of the country, the Commission and Ministry of Education decided to organise the competition, to draw them together for recognition and promotion purposes.” She added that after the competition, the ministry released the fund and directed the commissioner to visit every winning innovator and observe his or her needs so that the allocation can be done properly. COSTECH has already visited the potential fund beneficiaries and learnt that apart from financial support, almost all of them were in need of exposure and being linked to various stakeholders, said the manager. “We have already started to link the innovators with stakeholders and some of them are here today. The next is fund allocation in line with one’s requirements, an exercise which is to take place before year’s end,” said Ms Abdlahaman. One of potential beneficiaries, Mr Daniel Rongono, whose innovation is named ‘Smart Farm’, expressed gratitude to the commissioner and the ministry, saying that financial constraints were among the reasons behind slowness in matching with dramatic change of science and technology. His ‘Smart Farm’ innovation involves an irrigation system for green house farming, a system that enables the plants to produce fruits within a month. “It is because plants in this type of farming are full-time fed with the needed amount of fertilisers, water, temperature and humidity. My technology is suitable mostly for horticulture- related products,” he said. He urged other stakeholders to back up the government’s efforts in supporting innovators, whose activities have a huge contribution towards attaining industrial economy status. Mr Rongino said that he was very eager to expand and commercialise his innovation, for his personal benefit as well as contributing to national development at large. “The country has many young innovators. Once supported, the unemployment challenge could be permanently solved. We are also able to make available cheap and affordable technologies, and thus minimize the importation of some machines,” he sai