YOUNG Africans will know their Confederation Cup opponents today when the Confederation of African Football (CAF) releases the draw of group stage of the Champions League and playoffs of the Confederation Cup 2019/20. The draw for the two competitions, which are the major biggest continental football showpiece at the club level, will be held today at the Hilton Pyramids Resort in Cairo at 1900H local time. Yanga were demoted to the Confederation Cup playoffs after crashing out of the Champions League with 2-1 loss to Zambia’s Zesco United in the second leg. The team lost 3-2 on aggregate following a 1-1 draw in first leg match in Dar es Salaam. Speaking about the draw, Yanga head coach Mwinyi Zahera has been quoted as saying that he is ready to meet any team because he does not fear any of them including those from North Africa who have been hard nuts to crack for many years. The Congolese tactician Zahera said he had learned a lot from the Champions League elimination and he expects to rectify his side weaknesses in the continental’s inter-clubs second tier. After understanding play-off opponents, Yanga will kick off their campaign to seek another chance to play in the group stage after failing to do so in the Champions League. The first play-off leg will be held on October 27 at the National Stadium and the return leg will be held away on November 3rd. Some of the teams which are scheduled for the Confederation Cup playoffs are Bandari fc (Kenya), Proline (Uganda), Triangle FC (Zimbabwe), Pyramid (Egypt), Paradou AC (Algeria), ESAE (Benin), DC Motema Pembe (DRC), FC San Pedro (Ivory Coast), Bidvest Wits and TS Galaxy from South Africa. Yanga will be joined by neighbours Gor Mahia who are demoted to the Confederation Cup from Champions League, Bandari FC and Proline of Uganda. Gor Mahia dropped to the second tier of Africa's premier club competition, after losing 2-0 to Algerian side USM Alger while Bandari progressed to the play-off stage after edging out Tunisia's US Ben Guerdane. In the Africa's CAF Champions League draw, nine teams who have lifted the premier African club football title at least once including holders Esperance of Tunisia are among the teams that won byes, others are Etoile du Sahel, South African champions, Mamelodi Sundowns, Moroccan duo, Raja Club Athletic and Wydad Athletic Club, JS Kabylie, USM Alger of Algeria, TP Mazembe, AS Vita from DR Congo and record eight-time winners, Al Ahly of Egypt. Apart from the former winners, Angola has two representatives in rivals, Petro Atletico and Primeiro de Agosto whilst El Hilal (Sudan), FC Platinum (Zimbabwe) and Zesco United (Zambia) complete the list. The final slot between Zamalek (Egypt) and Generation Foot (Senegal) will be decided after a meeting by the relevant CAF body in the coming days.