FORMER Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has told off individuals and institutions that speak against ongoing national strategic projects, asking them to rally behind the government in the reform efforts. The former Prime Minister pointed out some of strategic programmes that earned lots of oppositions and criticisms as including the purchase of new aircraft for the Air Tanzania Limited (ATCL) and construction of the Nyerere Hydropower Project at the Rufiji River. “Initially some opponents claimed that the purchased planes were operating some flights without passengers but now you find that almost each flight is fully booked. Sometimes ATCL finds itself compelled to add flights in some routes,” Mr Pinda said. He said the newly purchased planes have immense contribution to the national economy “In my opinion, if possible, the government should bring in aircraft bigger than these,” he appealed. Mr Pinda’s appeal comes barely three days before the ATCL receives another plane, Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner. The reception ceremony will be held on Saturday at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA). The former premier was speaking when closing the Coast Region industrial exhibition, which lasted for one week, attracting at least 320 exhibitors, about three times the number of exhibitors participated last year. Mr Pinda said the Nyerere Hydropower project was another strategic project which President John Magufuli has dared to implement despite opposition from some individuals. “Everyone who tried to implement this project failed due to opposition. Those who opposed it based mainly on their arguments on the huge cost and environmental concerns but President Magufuli was persistent and realized the dream after learning that only a small fraction of Selous would be taken for the project,” he said. Mr Pinda told investors in the industrial sector that once the project is completed it will benefit industries by supplying them with sufficient power. “We can’t have industries with fluctuating power,” he said. He mentioned other important strategic projects as construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), provision of free education and for producing enough educated and skilled workforce to serve in the industries being established. “My appeal to the education ministry is that it should focus on producing graduates with skills needed in the market,” he advised. Mr Pinda also urged authorities in the Coast region to continue allocating lands for investment, saying doing so will help create employment opportunities for youth who will be absorbed in the factories being established. He said the fifth phase government continues to implement the five-year development programme (2016- 2021) which emphasizes on developing economy through industries that use locally available resources. Poverty is more prevalence in rural areas where over 70 per cent of Tanzanians engage in agriculture. “Having industries that use agricultural produce would significantly help alleviate poverty among the rural population,” he said. To build an enabling environment for investment, he said, establishing a One Stop Centre was crucial to bring together all government institutions responsible for facilitating investment under one roof. “The issue of One Stop Centre has been emphasized by the previous governments and the current government,” he said, urging authorities in the Coast region to allocate lands for establishing special economic zones as emphasized by the government. When highlighting on the exhibition, Coast Regional Commissioner Evarist Ndikilo said the region is determined to support government’s industrial agenda as the current number of industries stands at 1,192. “As more industries are being established many products that are imported would now be available in the country, he stated. The established industries in the region have offered 20,000 direct employment opportunities. The former prime minister had opportunity to hear from some of those industrialists that showcased their products during the exhibition. “We have 53,000 hectares allocated for investment. We also conducted business forum last week during which we launched our investment guideline which is now available on the region’s website,” he explained. Eng Ndikilo said the guideline has already been sent to stakeholders outside the country through Tanzania’s ambassadors in those countries. Some of the countries include the UK, Malaysia, China and Nordic countries. The Regional Commissioner commended the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), organizer of the Coast region business forum, for publicizing the forum as well as exhibition through publishing stories and feature articles.