AS Tanzanians we are proud of using Kiswahili not only as the national and official language, but also as East African Community ( EAC) and Southern African Development Community (SADC)’s official language. Since the language has united over 120 Tanzanian tribes, it will for sure unite East Africans and the rest of African people and enable them to communicate and share their interests more easily and mak e them have one voice in regional and international politics. This is a great honour to our nation, which is also renowned for being a peaceful country and one which has remained politically stable for many years compared to other countries that have been time and time again plagued by ethnic wars and political violence. On Tuesday this week something good for us was announced. It was that, effective from February next year, the University of Dar es Salaam, through the Institute of Swahili Studies (ISS), will start issuing an international Swahili proficiency test certificate. This is according to Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Dr Leonard Akwilapo, who said what had prompted this move was the fact that Kiswahili was one of the top 10 languages with many users globally. With this new development, therefore, the proficiency test certificate will testify its holder as an ex pert in Kiswahili language similar to proficiency test certificates in English, Spanish, Chinese and Arabic. The University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with various international universities so that those interested in Kiswahili proficiency test can register for ex aminations. In light of this, ISS will be conducting six ex aminations annually at selected examination centres worldwide to target candidates interested in using Kiswahili as their second language. This is a good move, which will benefit many people across the world and market our country. It will not only open up avenues for Kiswahili growth, but also will place Tanzania on the global map in terms of Kiswahili language and use. We have started very well, what we still need though is to maintain it and k eep ex ploring other avenues that will have a competitive advantage when it comes to investment and promotion of local tourism and cultures. We have many good things to share with other people across the world and strengthen bilateral relations with other countries and make people benefit from them. We, therefore, appeal to the government, development partners and stakeholders to build on this brilliant idea. Let’s k eep it up!