CHAMPIONS Simba SC continued their unbeaten run of the season with a 1-0 win over Mashujaa FC in a friendly match played at Lake Tanganyika ground in Kigoma yesterday. Sudan import midfielder Sharaf Shiboub provided the only goal of the match in the 56th minute to lift up his side after coming in as a second half substitute and consequently ignited the fully packed venue into celebration. The goal move was orchestrated by Simba skipper during the tie Said Ndemla who drove a good ball in the box and Shiboub connected it perfectly to beat Mashujaa shot stopper in the process. His introduction managed to bring a new life for Simba throughout the second half as he was able to win most aerial balls which were being wasted before he came on. Generally, for Simba squad, it was a completely different team as most players used were those drawn from the team’s U-20 side. The team’s tactician Patrick Aussems opted to give them an opportunity to test how it feels to be featured in the senior team. Only goalkeeper Aishi Manula was the regular player on the day for Msimbazi Street Reds. The victory was somehow a sweet revenge for the Msimbazi based giants who were painfully kicked out by Mashujaa in the knock out phase of the last season’s Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) after going down 3-2 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The reigning champs will again be in action tomorrow at the same venue taking on Burundian champions Aigle Noir de Makamba ‘Black Eagles’ in their last friendly match before resuming Vodacom Premier League (VPL) mission against KMC on Saturday at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. After KMC, Simba will host Azam FC at the National Stadium in the city in what will be both teams’ major test of the ongoing VPL campaign as the chase for the title is slowly picking momentum. It was the hosts who had the lion’s share of the game especially in the first opening half of the game which made the visitors to fail to control the midfield department. This scenario enabled Mashujaa to have a couple of goal threatening moves towards the Simba goal but goalkeeper Manula, who was benched during their 1-0 win over Kenya’s Bandari FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in another friendly clash for the champions, was always alert to prevent conceding any goal. Mashujaa came close to take the lead in the 12th minute through a set piece just outside the penalty box but the strike though well taken, went few inches off the target as Manula was slightly beaten at his guarding area. This, however, could not threaten Simba who were slowly building attacks from the back and their best chance in the opening half was in the 27th minute when they managed to score a goal but it was disallowed for an offside offence. Mashujaa who trade in the First Division League (FDL) are currently placed on the fourth place in their group after bagging seven points.