BM Motors Company in Kibaha District, Coast Region, targets to manufacture over 100 cars per year if it acquires machine for making chassis. That would also depend on whether the government introduces a system to issue vehicle chassis numbers to identify the origin of vehicles manufactured in Tanzania. Company’s Managing Director, Jonas Nyagawa said currently the plant has started to assemble buses using imported chassis and their numbers. About 40 per cent of materials for assembling the buses are obtained from Tanzania, he said. This impedes the company from its plans to grow into big car manufacturing factory in the country. “The chassis number is what identifies originality of the vehicle. We call upon the government to start a system of issuing car chassis numbers,” Mr Nyagawa appealed. “Our vision is to buy a machine for making chassis which is now sold at 7 million US dollars. If the government would start providing chassis numbers that would real boost us and we will be producing different kinds of cars” he stated during Coast Region industrial exhibition which ended on Wednesday this week. The exhibition brought together about 320 industries from the regions of Dar es Salaam, Morogoro, Tanga and Coast itself. Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN), was the media partner for the event, publishing activities carried out during the exhibition and promoting investment opportunities available in the region. However, he said, since the machine for making chassis is costly and may take long to purchase, the government could start issuing the chassis numbers so that they press order to the chassis manufacturers abroad but chassis numbers are from Tanzania in order to tell the originality of the vehicle. He said had already written to the Ministry of Industry and Trade over the concern about Tanzania’s chassis numbers. He argued that if the buses are produced in Tanzania they would be sold at much low prices compared to imported ones. Coast Regional Commissioner (RC), Eng. Evarist Ndikilo said Mr Nyagawa, who is owner of upcountry buses, is tired of buying buses from outside the country and now he wants to manufacture the buses.