Dear Readers, TODAY, this column focuses on the health burden posed by Tuberculosis (TB). The disease, which is a slow killer, affects both children and adults. Fortunately the illness is curable. This article also takes a brief look at nasty diseases, especially malaria. Childhood tuberculosis represents a major public health concern worldwide. The World Health Organization (WHO) reported recently that about nine million people develop TB each year. About one million (11 percent) of them are children aged less than 15 years. Children contribute from three to six percent of the total TB caseload in developed countries, including Tanzania. More than 25 percent of the burden of TB prevails in developing countries where childhood TB has been relatively neglected for years. Novel developments in diagnosis and treatment of paediatric TB have been carried out and, more recently, the definition of an adequate management of TB in childhood has become one of the main aspects of the global TB control efforts. Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious bacterial disease which is transmitted by air and can be fatal. As far as childhood TB is concerned there is difficulty in mycobacterium isolation. Tanzania has one of the highest burdens of TB in the world. The nation carries approximately 295 TB cases per 100,000 adults. Further, about five percent of adults in Tanzania are living with HIV or AIDS which according to the World Health Organisation, makes them 31 times more likely to become sick with TB. The main reason here is that their immune system is impaired. The mining sector, which often engages children, is hardest hit by TB due to vulnerabilities caused by factors such as workers’ exposure to silica, dust and poor working and living conditions. There is also a lack of TB prevention and education services. The prevalence of the disease, especially in small-scale mining workers, erodes the positive contribution made by the sector to Tanzania’s economic development. Immediate intervention is required because the disease can be controlled and cured through early diagnosis and treatment. Tuberculosis is a worrisome (chronic) infection caused by bacteria. It usually infects the lungs. But other organs such as the kidneys, spine or brain may be affected. TB is most often spread through droplets breathed or coughed into the air. A child can be infected with the TB bacteria and not have active disease. Exposure occurs when a child has been in contact with a person who has TB. The child will have a negative skin test, a normal chest X-ray and no symptoms. Latent TB infection occurs when a child has TB bacteria in his body, but does not have symptoms. The infected child’s immune system causes the TB bacteria to be inactive. For most people who are infected, the TB will be latent for life. A child who has a positive skin test but a normal chest X-ray cannot spread the infection to others. Tuberculosis is detected in a child when the child has signs and symptoms of an active infection. This child would have a positive skin test and a positive chest X-ray. He can spread the disease if untreated. As mentioned before, TB is caused by bacteria. It is often caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis. Many children infected with mycobacterium never develop active TB and remain in the latent TB stage. Bacteria are spread through the air when an infected person coughs, sneezes, speaks, sings, or laughs. A child usually does not become infected unless he has repeated contact with the bacteria. TB is not likely to be spread through personal items such as clothing, bedding, cups, eating utensils, a toilet or other items that a person with TB has touched. Good air flow is the most important way to prevent the spread of TB. Tuberculosis can grow and cause an active disease in a child who has a weak immune system. This can include children who have HIV and AIDS or diabetes. The disease can also attack children who are being treated with medicine that can weaken the immune system, such as corticosteroids or chemotherapy. Very young children are more likely than older children to have TB spread through their bloodstream. This can cause complications such as meningitis. TB symptoms can occur a bit differently in each child. They symptoms depend on the child’s age. The most common symptoms of active TB in younger children include: Fever; Weight loss and poor growth. Other common symptoms include coughs; Swollen glands and chills. The most common symptoms of active TB in adolescents include: Cough that lasts longer than three weeks; pain in the chest; Blood in sputum; Weakness; Tiredness and swollen glands. Other symptoms include weight loss; decrease in appetite; Fever; Sweating at night and chills. The symptoms of TB can be like other health conditions. Parents should make sure they take their ailing child to a healthcare provider for diagnosis. The healthcare provider will ask about the child’s symptoms and health history. He may also ask about the family’s health history. He will give the child a physical examination. TB is diagnosed with a TB skin test. In this test, a small amount of testing material is injected into the top layer of the skin. If a certain size bump develops within two or three days, the test may be positive for TB infection. The child may also need a chest X-ray and sputum test. A blood test called interferon-gamma release assays (IGRA) may also be done. A TB skin test is advised for children who may have been exposed to TB in the last five years; has an X-ray that looks like TB; has symptoms of TB or hails from a country where TB is common. Yearly skin testing should be done on children who have HIV or are in a detention facility. A child who is exposed to high-risk people should be tested every two to three years. A child may get TB skin testing from ages four to six and 11 to 16. This is necessary if the child has a parent from a high-risk country; has traveled to a high-risk area or lives in a densely populated area. TB treatment in a child may include a short-term hospital stay to be treated with medicine. For latent TB, the child is given a six to 12-month course of the medicine isoniazid. Or the child may get a shorter course of another medicine. For active TB, a child may take three to four medicines for six months. This is to make sure that the medicine is working. Children usually start to get better within a few weeks of starting treatment. After two weeks of treatment with medicine, a child is usually not contagious. Treatment must be fully finished as prescribed. It is important that the child takes all of the medicines for the entire time period. Parents should talk with the child’s healthcare provider about the risks, benefits, and possible side effects of all prescribed medicines. It is imperative, at this juncture, to look at the dangers posed by other diseases in Tanzania. Some of the diseases are fast killers. Endemic illnesses in Tanzania include malaria, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, plague, bacterial diarrhea and hepatitis A. These diseases are, indeed, an impediment to national economy and development. The diseases attack people of all ages, but those in the 15 to 56 age bracket are the most hit. These diseases, which are prevalent almost worldwide, are an economic affront. Fortunately, efforts are underway to mitigate the harm caused by the most dangerous diseases that include malaria, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and typhoid fever. Some of these diseases are surefooted killers with malaria leading the pack. Malaria is the most notorious child killer. The disease remains one of the most prevalent and deadly infectious diseases across Africa, Asia, and the Americas. The WHO has estimated that between 289 million malaria cases erupted in 2010, with 660,000 associated deaths. An independent study has suggested that the mortality is twice as high when including cases of malaria that are undiagnosed or untreated. Eighty percent of the cases occur in sub-Saharan Africa and 86 percent of deaths occur in children less than five years of age. Tanzania has the third largest population at risk of malaria in Africa: Over 90 percent of its population lives in areas where there is malaria. Each year, 10 to 12 million people contract malaria in Tanzania and 80,000 die from the disease, most of them of them children. However, parents must have heaved a sigh of relief upon hearing that the nation has logged yet another milestone in the fight against malaria among children. The delightful news is that malaria prevalence levels dropped from 14.4 percent in 2015 to 7.3 percent in 2017. The nation is, indeed, winning more ground in this battle. So, Tanzania becomes the second country in the East African Community (EAC), after Rwanda, to whittle down malaria infection rates. Rwanda has registered success inking a reduction of 7 percent. Kenyan and Ugandan figures stand at 19 and eight percent respectively. Tanzanian figures are encouraging at national level. However, the situation is still bleak and even worrisome in some regions. Kigoma leads the pack with 24.4 percent malaria prevalence. Other regions with a high prevalence of malaria include Geita (at 17.3 percent); Kagera (15.4) and Tabora (14.8). Regions with the lowest prevalence of the killer disease are Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Manyara, Njombe, Songwe and Dodoma (at less than one percent). The disease is also the main impediment to learning capacity for people aged between five and 25 years. In that case, the disease becomes one of the most frustrating obstacles to economic development and foreign investment in Tanzania. The history of malaria control in Tanzania dates back to the early 1900s, when malaria was seen as a major threat to development in areas where the disease was endemic. The colonial government implemented a number of interventions to address the situation. Multiple techniques combining environmental management, effective housing designs, personal protective measures and anti-malarial drugs were simultaneously used for malaria control. In Tanzania (then Tanganyika), malaria control efforts were initiated to protect the German colonial personnel in the late 1890s. Efforts were gradually increased during the British colonial era. Tanganyika participated in the malaria eradication efforts through the Pare-Taveta scheme, which conducted indoor spraying with prompt treatment. Since independence in 1961, a number of prevention, management, and control measures have been instituted. spmwita@yahoo.com