MEDIATION panel to resolve an abortive sale between Tullow Oil and joint venture partners—Total and CNOOC—is scheduled to meet in Kampala, Uganda today amid prospects of the region’s oil exporting plan. Uganda’s major investment project to build a 24- inch diameter crude oil export pipeline from Hoima northwest of Kampala to Chongoleani peninsula in Tanga had reached a deadlock. Decision by Tullow to sell its 21.7 per cent stake in the Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) at 900 million US dollars to China National Offshore Oil Corpo-ration (CNOOC) and Total faced a huge blow when the Ugandan Revenue Authority scrapped a 167 million dollar bill instead of the anticipated 85 million dollar capital gain Tax. The ‘Daily News’ had learnt that although CNOOC and Total agreed to share the bill, the project stalled after Uganda passed a law limiting transfer of past cost when a new investor buys existing oil assets. The legislation, according to commentators demands that when calculating profit, the tax deductibility will certainly not apply to the new investor. This means if Tullow sells-off her share both Total and CNOOC won’t enjoy the corporate tax holiday that Tullow would enjoy if had chosen to stay. Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) Managing Director Dr James Mataragio, giving updates on the progress of the much talked “Hoima-Tanga Crude Oil Pipeline,” said the Ugandan National Oil Company (UNOC) will be meeting with key stakeholders today to resolve the tax dispute. “We’re closely following the developments in Uganda,” he said. “I met the UNOC director in Russia recently and he informed me they are organising the meeting to resolve the issue.” The mediation panel seating today is expected to involve UNOC, Tullow, CNOOC, Total, URA among others. The ‘Daily News’ could not independently verify the meeting arrangement but it is informed that it’s central towards the establishment of the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP), a project mainly supervised by TPDC and UNOC. Local media reported earlier that the sale of Tullows share will help comprehend the key shareholder and shareholdings in the East African crude oil pipeline. As it stands, Tanzania hosts the largest part—about 80 per cent—of the 1,445 kilometre long infrastructure. Meanwhile, Dr Mataragio has cleared rumours that the recent filed lawsuit against the French energy giant—Total— by six rights groups had nothing to do with the planned construction of the mega crude oil pipeline. “I can confirm that the lawsuit has nothing to do with the project. Unless other implementing partners—Tullow and CNOOC are also listed,” he said, detailing that both public awareness campaign and environmental impact assessment reports have been commissioned before moving to the pipeline construction. Last week, six NGOs sued Total on what they described a ‘failure to avert disastrous impacts’ of its field project for local residents and biodiversity in Uganda.