NATIONAL team, Taifa Stars striker Simon Msuva admitted that without the team’s captain Mbwana Samatta in their friendly match against Rwanda there will be a big gap to the team. Stars face Rwanda on October 14th in Kigali for the clash which falls under the FIFA calendar and any results recorded have direct impact on the concerned team as far as world standings are concerned. In reference from the latest FIFA ranking table African Zone (September 2019), Tanzania is ranked 38th while their opponents Rwanda are placed on 36th slot. Worldwide, Tanzania is on position 135. In view of this, a good results by Stars will see them changing from the current position to better digits on the table and the opposite will happen if they fail to excel over the Rwandans. Speaking yesterday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on the final warm up session before jetting off to Rwanda today, Msuva said Samatta always motivate them during matches. “As you know, he is not just like any other player on the field but he is the captain meaning that he has a certain value he offers to the team. He brings motivation to us hence without him is surely a big miss,” he said. But, on the other side of the coin, Msuva said it will be a challenge for others to fill Samatta’s void and fight for the country. “I am sure that the coach has already decided who to use on behalf of him (Samatta) hence it is just a matter of aiming for good results after the end of the game since we are fighting for our nation,” said him. He also expressed his satisfaction upon seeing that some new faces have been included in the squad saying that is a good gesture since the national team is the property of every Tanzanian. “Anybody without looking whether he plays for First Division League ( FDL) or Vodacom Premier League (VPL) has the capacity to be featured in the national team and I am happy to see new members in the squad some of them I hardly know them,” Msuva said. Additionally, Msuva who trade his professional football in Morocco called upon his teammates to work hard to defeat Sudan in the return leg of the 2020 African Nations Championship (CHAN) set on October 18th. “Even though we will not be part of the team but allow me to urge them to play hard in order to win and go into the next round of the competition. We lost 1-0 at home and if they won here, we can equally win at their backyard,” insisted Msuva. Commenting on the prevailing rain weather conditions as to whether it can have an impact in their tie against Rwanda, he said it is not a big thing to worry about since the two countries almost experience the same weather conditions. The team’s interim Head Coach, Etienne Ndayiragije in the past interview disclosed that he had accepted Samatta’s request not to be included in the Rwanda mission because he is not 100 percent fit hence he needs to use the period to recover. “Even though he is being featured in UEFA Champions League, you can tell that he is not fully well as such let him continue to recover,” he said.