A FREELANCE Journalist, Erick Kabendera has written to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), initiating plea-bargaining process to end the economic trial he is facing at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam. This was disclosed yesterday by his Advocate Jebra Kambole when the trial on three counts of leading organised crime, money laundering and evading payments of tax amounting 173m/- to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) came for mention. "We hereby notify the court that we have initiated a plea-bargaining agreement in this case. We request for another mention date and we will notify the court on the position to be reached," he told Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile. The advocate was referring to therequirement of section 194A (2) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), as amended by the Written Laws (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No.4) Act of 2019 when an accused writes to the DPP for pleabargaining process. Such provision states that an accused person or his advocate or a public prosecutor may initiate a plea bargaining and notify the court of their intention to negotiate a plea agreement. In terms of Article 58B (2) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, the DPP is vested with powers to institute, prosecute and supervise all criminal prosecutions in the country. Senior State Attorney Wankyo Simon, for the prosecution, informed the court that it was true that they received the letter in question and the DPP office was still working on the matter. He assured the accused that the court would duly be informed once the process is complete. The magistrate adjourned the trial to October 24, 2019, for another mention. It is alleged by the prosecution that on diverse dates between January 2015 and July 2019 at various places in the Commercial City of Dar es Salaam, with other persons not in court, Kabendera knowingly furnished assistance on the conduct of affairs or a criminal racket either to reap profit or benefits. The prosecution told the court that within the same period in the city, without reasonable excuse, the journalist failed to pay tax amounting to 173.2m/- to the Tanzania Revcenue Authority (TRA). On money laundering, the court heard also that within the same period and places, Kabendera acquired the said sum, while at the time of receipt he knew that the monies was the proceeds of predicate offences of tax evasion and leading organised crime.