TANZANIA Social Action Fund (TASAF) has secured 450 million US dollars (over 1tri/-) for support of households in extreme poverty in the next five years. The government and World Bank have reached a financing agreement in supporting the execution of the improved second phase of the productive social Safety Net (PSSN II) in TASAF’s third phase. Upon its commencement, the programme is anticipated to reach over five million poor people, over half of them being women in villages in the mainland and shehia and mitaa for Zanzibar and Pemba. Briefing journalists after the official signing of the deal in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning Doto James said the new pact is a product of impressive achievements under the previous phases. “Despite impressive achievements realised during the first phase of the programme, extreme poverty and vulnerability remain key development challenges that the government is strongly committed to address using various mechanisms, including social protection. As PSSN II is aligned with the newly formulated National Social Protection Policy (NSPP) and the Second Five- Year Development Plan (FYDPII), the objective is to boost economic development for the country to attain its ambitious goal of middle income status,” said mr James. He also observed that the concessional loan will help to improve access to income earning opportunities and social economic services for the targeted poor households while enhancing and protecting human capital of their children. Implementation will comprise various components— productive household support (benefits and services), strengthening institutional capacity and integrated delivery systeEqually, PSSN II will further strengthen economic and impacts of the programme by enabling the households to increase their productive assets by shifting to more productive works while boosting their incomes. Investing in human capital of children for long term productivity and targeted infrastructure development in health, education and water sectors are also among aspects which will feature in the programme. World Bank Country Director Bella Bird disclosed that financing is the second largest the Briton Woods institution has ever committed in Tanzania and more importantly, the project is directly focusing on the country’s poorest. Ms Bird said that efficiency; professionalism and consistency demonstrated in the payment of grants by TASAF team are among the factors that have attracted the funding. She said the consistency of payment to the beneficiaries have allowed poor households to smoothen their consumption patterns and manage prices, leading to predictable flows of resources while allowing them to save and prepare for future. She added that independent World Bank evaluations showed that TASAF genuinely verify results of the programme and has clearly been witnessed by both parties. “When I presented this project to the board of World Bank last month, we had received extremely strong support from all the shareholders. “TASAF support will enable many extremely poor households not only to temporarily move out of poverty but progressively build their asset base, raise their human capital and their resilience for the long run,” said Ms Bird. TASAF National Steering Committee Chairman Dr Moses Kusiluka appreciated all partners, pledging to supervise the implementation to achieve the government goals. He however welcomed other development partners to follow suit in the funding of the improved PSSN programme. Permanent Secretary in the office of the Zanzibar’s Second Vice-President Shaaban Seif Mohammed said the fruits of the programme for the island were immense and Zanzibar is regarded as the champion in the programme execution.