REFORMS to improve business environment should focus to boost development in the agricultural sector to help farmers treat agriculture as business, the chairman of Tanzania Private Sector Foundation, Salum Shamte has said. He said in Dar es Salaam over the weekend that the reforms should provide more incentive to farmers, who make majority of population, to boost productivity in agriculture and agribusiness and help nation make optimal use its competitive and comparative advantage in the sector. “I see the importance of the investment policy to focus also on agriculture development as a business. Why? 65 per cent of population is involved in agriculture and you can’t just ignore 65 per cent of the population,” he said. “I believe in agriculture and agribusiness we have very serious competitive and comparative advantages over others because of huge tract of land, water, ecological zone and strategic geographical location.” Agricultural sector, which employ about 67 per cent of the population, grew by 5.3 percent in 2018 and contributed 28.2 per cent to the economy, according to the Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Phillip Mpango in his state of the economy speech. Mzee Shamte said boosting agriculture and agribusiness would help farmers benefit from huge domestic market buoyed by rapid growing population, as well as regional markets in East African Community (EAC) and Southern African Development Community (SADC). “We have the best chance so we need special incentive to boost agriculture and agribusiness. We need more incentive to empower farmers,” Mr Shamte former Vice- President of Southern African Confederation of Agricultural Unions (SACAU), said promotion of agriculture and agribusiness would help to lift farmers out of poverty and generate billionaires in line with President John Magufuli’s ambition to generate at least 100 billionaires before he leaves office. “President (John) Magufuli said he was ambitious to grow at least 100 billionaires before he leaves office and African Development Bank (AfDB) president, Akinwumi Adesina said future billionaires would be African farmers,” he said. He hailed the government for scrapping nuisance taxes on agriculture and agri-products but said the government should go further to remove some which have remained. Farmers are still heavily taxed. They pay 3 per cent of their total earnings as taxes while industrialists pay 0.4 per cent ad development levy. Farmers pay 7.5 times more yet they are the poorest. They pay land rent for instance but that is a means of production this should be looked into,” he said. He said they hope that the reforms would help in making agriculture as a business undertaking as it cannot stimulate growth and development if continues to remain largely a subsistence activity. He said farmers should be allowed to export their produce and should not be forced to join cooperatives which are “susceptible of corruption and political interference.” “Agriculture is a business and should be treated as such. You can’t interfere like banning of exports. Imagine I have planted my maize in Rukwa and there is good market in Zambia and you tell me no export. I hope this policy should stop once and for all,” he said. “We shouldn’t force farmers to join cooperatives because they are susceptible of corruption and political interference,” The Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Hussein Bashe said in Parliament in September that the government was evaluating the cooperative system to make them more useful to farmers instead of operating as middlemen. He said the government would review their structure, operation, supervision and member resources to make them more meaningful to farmers.