MALNUTRITION, overweight and obesity case are on the rise, especially among women, hitting internationally unacceptable levels. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa speaking at the opening of the sixth Joint Multisectoral Nutrition Review (JMNR) meeting here yesterday, described as alarming the level of malnutrition among women who attain delivery ages. However, researches show that stunted growth in the country is currently low. Themed “Translating and Using Nutrition Evidence to Accelerate the Implementation of Policies and Programmes for Sustainable Development of Tanzania,” the meeting was attended by over 300 delegates. “We need to control our eating behaviours because too much eating has adverse impacts on our health…you may be surprised to see a person eating over three eggs, cassava, potatoes and other varieties, I think more education on nutrition is highly needed,’’ he said. Mr Majaliwa asked nutritionists to intensify awareness programmes on nutrition to rescue the country’s population from malnutrition and obesity tragedies. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), overweight and obesity are defined as abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that presents health risk. A crude population measure of obesity is the body mass index (BMI), that is, the person’s weight in kilogrammes divided by the square of his or her height in metres. A person with BMI of 30 or more is generally considered obese. A person with BMI equal to or more than 25 is considered overweight. Commenting on stunted growth and malnutrition on children below five years, the premier said they need to be addressed properly. “That is why we need concerted efforts to attain the international levels,’’ he said, adding that stakeholders need to help on how best the country can attain this. Speaking at the event, Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children Dr Faustine Ndugulile said overweight and obesity to women was alarming, adding that statistics show that one third of women in the country were overweight. Former Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda who also attended the meeting said in the coming elections, political parties need to address the issue of nutrition in their election manifestos for serious fixing of the issue nationally.