EIGHT clubs have been listed top compete in in Tanzania Open swimming championships starting tomorrow in the city. The clubs are Dar es Salaam Swimming Club, Taliss-IST, Bluefins, Champion Rise, Mwanza Swimming Club, Morogoro International School swimming club and International School of Moshi. The competition to be staged at the International School of Tanganyika (IST) Masaki, will see swimmers competing for titles of the various categories. Tanzania Swimming Association (TSA) Secretary General, Inviolata Itatiro said the preparations for the competition is complete and the age groups to participate include U-9,10, 11-12, 13-14 and 15 and over. The swimmers from various clubs will compete in five swimming styles; butterfly, freestyle, individual medley (IM), backstroke and breaststroke. Inviolata said there will be also 800m freestyle race for both girls and boys, and relays and mixed relays. The winners in each event will be awarded medals while the runner up and third-placed finishers will be awarded gold, silver, and bronze respectively. In age groups, first and second winners would be awarded trophies while the open events will be based on the final place rather than the age group. The fourth-placed competitor will garner 12 points while the fifth (10), sixth (8), seventh (6), eighth (4), ninth (2) and the tenthplaced will be awarded one point. According to Inviolata, only swimmers, whose clubs have paid the annual membership fee and are registered members of TSA are eligible for competing in the event. She added that only swimmer who has met the qualifying times in competitions held from January 1, 2019, will be accepted to compete in up to eight individual events and two relay events. She said TSA has organised the event in order to give chances to young swimmers to gauge their skills while association’s technical department and coaches use it to scout the promising swimmers. “This is a platform for young swimmers to show their talents. Due to age, they did not participate in the events organised for grownups. So the event will bring together swimmers from various parts in the Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar,” said Inviolata.