DAR ES SALAAM is hosting the Fourth Industrial Revolution Week which started yesterday, bringing together stakeholders and participants from across the African continent. Sahara ventures, through Sahara Sparks, is the organiser of the event which focuses on the role of Africa in the industrial revolution, which will also brings together experts from various sectors to discuss changing technological trends. The event will also address challenges the continent faces with regards to advancement in digital technologies, including the need to reassess education to be relevant to entrepreneurship demand in innovation. Speaking yesterday Sahara Ventures Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Jumanne Mtambalike said Africa and most specifically Tanzania could not avoid the rise of disruptive technologies and their role in shaping global societies. “Technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), robotics, virtual reality (VR), artificial intelligence (AI) and the likes have a chance to address most complex issues in our society if well adopted,” he said. He added: “Technologies have already started changing the way we work and live and they will greatly influence our planning in the years to come. It is expected 300 million additional people to come online by 2025 in sub-Saharan Africa.” He said there were 995 million mobile subscribers and 362 million internet users. “The digital economy is real. With almost 18 million youths getting into the job market every year and their median age being 19 years, strategically we cannot afford not to talk about the future,” he said. Among the topics to be discussed during the course of the week will be on a need to revisit curricula to accommodate technology entrepreneurship studies at an early stage. Among the sponsors of the event are the Commission for Science and Technology (Costech), National Economic Empowerment Commission (NEEC) and Information Communication Technology Commission (ICTC). Other partners are the Embassy of Switzerland, the Embassy of the Netherlands, UNDP, Swiss security firm SICPA, Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDT) and Foundation Botnar. The event will be attended by over 2,000 delegates from different countries who will share experience on the level of adaptation of digital technology from their countries. Delegates will also tour an emerging digital ecosystem in Dar es Salaam which is envisaged to become the silicon of the country. According to Mr Mtambalike, more than 600 tech hubs have sprung up across the continent, with Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town emerging as internationally recognized technology centres. “Dar es Salaam has also witnessed changes. In the past few years, the number of hubs in the city has tripled. These cities now host thousands of startups, along with incubators, accelerators, innovation hubs, maker spaces, technology parks and co-working spaces that support them,” he said. The week event will end on Friday and among the expected guests will be Vice- President Samia Hassan Suluhu and former South African President Thabo Mbeki.