KAGERA Cooperative Union (KCU), has collected about 12,789 tonnes of coffee, equivalent to 101 per cent of the target, while over 85 of the farmers had already received their payments through their accounts, it has been disclosed. KCU General Manager, Mr Edson Rugaimukamu told the ‘Daily News on Saturday’ that so far about 12,789 tonnes of coffee had been collected from the villages. This was equivalent of 101 per cent of the target of collecting 12,640 tonnes this season. “ We are happy that the 100 per cent target has been surpassed. The coffee has already been transported to warehouses at Kemondo, Bukop in Tanga and Dar es Salaam. Until September 30th, this year about 5bn/-had been realised from indirect coffee sales. We are also happy that most of the farmers, about 85 per cent had already been paid their payments through their accounts,” he said. He allayed farmers’ fears over unpaid coffee deliveries, saying farmers with pending payments will be paid soon. He noted that most farmers had already opened an account, assuring them to get payment as soon as a farmer submits his coffee to their respective Agricultural and Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOS). He elaborated that during the 2019/2020 crop season KCU targeted to collect about 12,640 tonnes of coffee (2,640 tons of organic and 10,000 tonnes convertional coffee). KCU comprised about 133 Agricultural and Marketing Cooperative Societies (AMCOS). Out of the number, 53 are in Muleba, 51 in Bukoba Rural, 26 in Missenyi while three others are in Bukoba Urban. He also appealed to Tanzania Coffee Research Institute (TACRI), at Maruku, in Bukoba Rural District to ensure that they multiply enough improved coffee varieties and distribute them to the farmers for the planting season. He observed that the region had the potential to increase coffee production taking into consideration that the area had plenty of rainfall and fertile soil. “Extension officers should avoid business as usual attitude....instead they should visit the farmers and give them the needed advice. Most of the coffee trees were very old at 60 years and did not yield much,” he said. The agriculture sector has consistently been dominant in the Kagera economy. The sector engages about 90 per cent of the region’s economically active population in the production of food and cash crops. Agriculture contributes most of the region’s cash income, mostly from coffee, cotton and tea. The government has taken bold steps by inviting the private sector to participate in revamping the agricultural sector, he said. For many decades farmers in the region have been growing coffee in their farms. Coffee is grown in Bukoba, Muleba, Karagwe, Kyerwa, Ngara and Missenyi districts in the Western areas along Lake Victoria. This constitutes 30 per cent of the total coffee production in Tanzania.