A few days after knowing their CAF Confederation Cup playoff opponents, Young Africans yesterday announced to have shifted their first leg match venue from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza. The club’s spokesperson unveiled yesterday in Dar es Salaam of a decision to shift the venue of their game against Pyramids of Egypt from the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam to CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Through the club’s Instagram and Twitter pages, Yanga have posted a notification of their decision to bring the Sunday’s October 27 match saying the first leg match will be held at CCM Kirumba Stadium and not in Dar es Salaam. However, the report did not disclose the reason why the club changed the venue, but it might be part of the club precautions ahead of the crucial game as they need to ensure they win by a big margin so that their return leg in Cairo becomes a downhill task. But, the club official has been quoted as saying that the decision is part of the club strategy to ensure they post a convincing win against the Egyptians which he said would be vital in their campaign to sail into a group stage. “We don’t fear our opponents, but we respect them despite making first appearance in one of the continent’s major showpieces at the club level. We are taking all precautions ahead our first leg at home to ensure we win by a big margin,” said the Official. But the move might also be one of Yanga’s strategies to keep themselves away from Simba supporters who might affect their morale on the field as it has been a custom for the supports of the both teams. Yanga reached the round of 32 of the CAF Confederation Cup after being demoted from the CAF Champions League following a 3-2 aggregate loss to Zesco United of Zambia last month. Yanga were held to 1-1 draw at the National Stadium in the first leg before losing 2-1 at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola Zambia. Yanga have been having difficult in positing good results in international matches at the National Stadium. Prior to facing Zesco, Yanga were held to 1-1 draw by by Township Rollers of Botswana in the preliminary round of the CAF Champions League before eliminating them in Gaborone with a 1-0 victory. The change of venue for Yanga who are currently in intensive training ahead of their game against Pyramids might be a search of a new hub which could favour them in posting good results. Their Egyptian opponents; Pyramids FC secured their place in the Confederation Cup playoffs after claiming a 1-0 away win over Algeria’s Belouizdad in the second-leg of the competition’s second preliminary round. With the lone winner netted by the club’s Ghanaian striker, John Antwi in the 50th minute, Pyramids were held to a 1-1 draw by Belouizdad in the firstleg in Cairo and qualified for the next round with a 2-1 aggregate win.