STATE Minister in the President’s Office for Regional Administration and Local Government, Mr Selemani Jafo, has underscored the importance of cooperation between District Administrative Secretaries (DASs) and their executives. The Minister, speaking during a recent working tour to meet with the newly appointed DASs here, advised the DASs to avoid a trap that caught their colleagues and removal from the posts for lack of cooperation between them. “Presently, the government’s main agenda is revenues collection and good management of development projects and public funds. The former DASs failed to carry out this because they also lacked cooperation,” said the Minister while opening the meeting. Earlier, the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Mr Mathias Kabunduguru, cautioned the DASs to work professionally in the upcoming local government election. “The RASs should well supervise the voters’ registration exercise of the upcoming local government election. Most of the new DASs are familiar with local government responsibilities, because they were executives in the same portfolio,” he said. Mr Mohamed Mavura, one of the newly appointed DASs, said he was going to Lindi Region being aware of the ongoing public projects and upcoming local government election. “I promise to work in cooperation with my executives to ensure local government election is successful,” said the Lindi DAS. The District Administrative Secretaries who took oath of office before Officerin- Charge of Ethics Secretariat, Mr Ndaki Muhuli, are Siha District Administrative Secretary, Ms Rehema Bwasi, Morogoro District Administrative Secretary, Ms Sheillah Lukuba, Kyela District Administrative Secretary, Ms Diana Zachariah. The list also included Butiama District Administrative Secretary, Ms Hanji Godigodi, Mbozi District Administrative Secretary, Mr Saidi Magari, Uyui Administrative Secretary, Ms Hawa Mposi, Malinyi District Administrative Secretary, Mr Godwin Chacha.