MDANGA, a small farmer in Mlali Village of Morogoro District woke up that morning to find his dreams of earning a substantial amount of money from his farm shattered. His five-hectare tomato farm was not only completely submerged in water but the otherwise good crop was buried in sand as a result of a heavy downpour that had been going on for about two days. “Now I understand why people commit suicide,” he lamented. “I had hoped to make about 5m/- form sale of tomatoes but now I have lost everything. I can’t figure out how I will repay the loan I took from the bank and other small debts that I have to pay some individuals. I am as good as dead now,” he said. For about two weeks in October (2019) several regions in Tanzania experienced heavy rainfall which, according to the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA), was off-season, as it could be traced neither to, in most of the areas, the short rainy season nor to the long rainy season. Yet it had far reaching impacts on the public in general as farmers lost crops and livestock while others lost property and transport infrastructure was severely damaged in some cases. There is little evidence to show that the unexpected rainfall that caused flash floods in some places could be attributed to climate change but absence of evidence does not mean absence of effect; people lost property and suffered extensive damage. The issue at hand is how countries and the international community can address the climate-induced loss and damage that vulnerable communities suffer. “Climate-related disasters are now a new normal not only in Africa but in all continents of the world. The only difference is the severity of these disasters and the subsequent loss and damage they cause to the most vulnerable communities,” explained Dr Sixbert Mwanga, Executive Director of Climate Action Network Tanzania (CANTz). “The important thing is for governments to find means of financing loss and damage by using local resources and collaborating with the international community in order to get adequate funding,” he said. He was speaking in a workshop to discuss, among other things, financial solutions to tackle climate changeinduced loss and damage that was held in Dar es Salaam recently. The workshop that was organised by CANTz drew participants from government and civil society organizations as well as delegates from Kenya and Ethiopia. Participants deliberated on how Tanzania, Africa and other developing countries can raise their voices on the need to scale up efforts to finance redress of vulnerable communities that suffer the impacts of climate disasters at the UN Climate Change conference scheduled take place in Chile in December this year. The devastating impacts of climate change, collectively known by the term “loss and damage” cost thousands of lives and have caused huge damage throughout the world. Climate Analytics suggests that by 2030 the global annual cost of repairing loss and damage associated with climate change will reach at least USD300 billion, increasing to about USD1.2 trillion a year by 2060. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) the agricultural sector suffers the most severe impacts from climate change and 22 per cent of the economic impacts caused by extreme climate events are in developing countries. “Of a total USD140 billion worth of loss and damage caused by 78 disasters between 2003 and 2013, agriculture and its subsectors sustained damage worth USD30 billion. Thus, addressing vulnerabilities in agriculture sector assumes more significance,” says the UN Agency in one of its reports. In Tanzania and indeed in many developing countries where climatic changes have disrupted seasons leading to unpredictability of rainy seasons, among other impacts, production of traditional crops is no longer viable. Many farmers have already shifted to new crops that were formerly not produced in their areas. There is thus a need to help communities build resilience to the impacts by promoting sustainable livelihoods through financing loss and damage. “The most vulnerable communities suffer heavy economic and other losses from the impacts of climate change. Farmers lose crops and livestock and their property is damaged. Most of them have little or no ability to emerge and recover from the loss and damage they have suffered hence the need to raise commitment to finance these at COP25,” explained Dr Catherine Masao from the University of Dar es Salaam. Africa has taken various measures to redress climate-induced loss and damage among most vulnerable communities. The Africa Risk Capacity (ARC) was established Afrihas taken various measures to redress climate-induced loss and damage among most vulnerable communities. 2012 as a specialised agency of the African Union to help member states improve their capacities to better plan, prepare and respond to weather-related disasters. It consists of ARC Agency and ARC Insurance Company Limited (ARC Ltd). ARC Ltd is a mutual insurance facility providing risk transfer services to member states through risk pooling and access to reinsurance markets; it is owned by member states with active insurance policies as well as international development partners who are capital contributors. The ARC assists AU member states in reducing the risk of loss and damage caused by extreme weather events affecting Africa’s populations by providing, through sovereign disaster risk insurance, targeted responses to natural disasters in a more timely, cost-effective, objective and transparent manner. In March this year, the African Development Bank (AfDB) pledged USD25 billion to climate finance for 2020- 2025. The Bank is on course to achieve its target of allocating 40 per cent of its funding to climate finance by 2020. “Considering Africa’s high vulnerability despite contributing the least to climate change, the African Development Bank has successfully raised its adaptation finance from less than 30 per cent of total climate finance to parity with mitigation in 2018. The African Development Bank will continue this trend into the future,” the bank says in a statement. “Consequently, the Bank launched the African Financial Alliance for Climate Change (AFAC) to link all stock exchanges, pension and sovereign wealth funds, central Banks and other financial institutions of Africa to mobilise and incentivise the shift of their portfolios towards low carbon and climate resilient investments,” the statement adds. “But Africa and other developing countries need to come up with other proposals for concrete financing mechanisms that would adequately redress hard-hit communities for the loss and damage they suffer from climate change impacts,” says Dr Masao. While developing countries continue to muster support to finance climate-induced loss and damage, it is imperative to look into ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in individual countries. The collective efforts would contribute to the global target of dealing with climate change and reducing its severe impacts on the most vulnerable communities. “The science on climate change and its impacts is clear. What we need to do is to scale up actions to reduce the emissions gap by cutting emissions or, for many developing countries like Tanzania, avoiding emissions because there is little to reduce,” explains Mohamed Adow from Power Shift Africa in Kenya. He says that it is also important to scale up efforts to build resilience among communities by taking local action such as designing land use plans and implementing them accordingly. Although the cost of loss and damage is way above financing adaptation, building the capacity of communities to adapt can reduce loss and damage. Communities should thus strive to become resilient to impacts of climate change and can take adaptation measures particularly using local resources. This will also contribute towards sustainable development. “We should be concerned not only with the huge costs that are a result of climate related disasters but also with the fact that loss and damage throws down the drain whatever development a country has made and stagnates any further efforts to attain sustainable development goals,” says Thomas Hirsch, Climate and Development Advice Founding Director. Extreme climate events, such as drought, can reverse development gains and push farming households into poverty traps. “Climate change impacts resources and deprives communities of livelihoods. With reduced resources and livelihoods, conflicts are bound to happen within countries and between them. At national scale, loss and damage leads to indebtedness as countries struggle to secure funds to rebuild infrastructure in order to prop up transport and other social services,” he adds. The Warsaw Implementation Mechanism (WIM) was established in 2013 to address loss and damage associated with impacts of climate change in developing countries, especially those that are not well equipped to adapt. However, six years down the road the Mechanism has not been able to set up a fund specifically for addressing loss and damage in developing countries. “It seems that no one really takes loss and damage seriously when it comes to dealing with issues under the climate change agenda. Tanzania, Africa and other developing countries must raise their voices at COP25 so that developed countries mobilise money to address loss and damage in developing countries and the Mechanism is adequately equipped to implement the responsibilities for which it was created,” urges Dr Sixbert Mwanga.