GEITA Gold Mining Limited (GGM), in collaboration with Rafiki Surgical Mission from Australia, has supported 1,717 children and adults from Geita Region to repair cleft lips and palate deformities since 2002. The two institutions have allocated resources worth 1.7bn/- for the last 17 years to help children and adults suffering from unrepaired cleft lips and palates by providing free surgical treatment. This year 17 patients were operated in April as part of the GGM, Rafiki fund over 1,700 cleft lip and palate surgeries first phase of the bi-annual mission while the second phase of the mission started on October 18 at Geita Hospital where 25 children and adults from different villages in the region were sponsored. Speaking on the support at the weekend, GGML Acting Managing Director Brad Catto said the sponsorship of the mission was in line with the company’s values and commitment. He added that health promotion was the company’s top priority when it came to supporting the community that surrounded the mine. “This time once again, our support will include transportation as well as full accommodation and meals during the patients’ stay at Sekou Toure Hospital in Mwanza,” he said. Cleft lips and palate deformities are a worldwide problem and among the major problems facing children around Lake Victoria where Geita Gold Mining Limited (GGML) is located. The exact nature of cleft occurrence is still unknown, but it is believed the defect is a result of genetic and environmental factors. According to Mr Catto, over the past 17 years, patients who have had successful operations as part of the GGML and Rafiki surgical missions were given a new start and their quality of life improved dramatically. GGML has been collaborating with Geita authorities and local communities in investing in sustainable projects to support communities in health, education and infrastructure. In 2018 alone, GGML, in collaboration with the Geita authorities, set a budget of 9.2bn/- to implement major projects in the region. This year GGML approved the same amount to support several development projects.