A TOTAL of 215 civic education providers and election observers are set to be deployed countrywide early next month to facilitate free and fair civic elections. Action for Change (ACHA) and The Right Way (TRW) accredited by the government to manage the deployment process will launch the programme on November 1, this year. The event will be attended by various stakeholders. Addressing a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday, ACHA and TRW representative Jackson Sikahanga said the programme to deploy civic education providers and observers was to help promote public trust in elections and referendums. “The aim of deploying civic education providers is to promote public trust in elections and referendums, ensure the effective management of the electoral process and support legal and administrative reforms through civic, voter and observation education,” he noted. He said the two organisations, through civic education providers, would provide civic and voter education and observe the electoral process through assessing the extent to which it complied with local and international standards governing elections. The organisations will be monitoring preparations and the electoral process to detect irregularities in terms of preparations of required materials, a nomination process and criteria. Other activities to be conducted by the organisations will be to ensure participation of eligible voters and political parties, campaign modalities, voting procedures, the counting process and the announcement of election results. “ACHA and TRW will ensure the process meets local and international standards as ratified by the government of Tanzania and contained in municipal laws, regulations and guidelines from electoral management bodies (EMBs) and in international human rights instruments,” said Mr Sikahanga. The organisations will also ensure smooth intraparty nomination processes, peaceful election campaigns and impartiality of the state apparatus such as the election administrator, law enforcement agencies and equal participation by marginalised groups. He said election monitoring would be conducted with updated tools and timely reporting on all aspects of the electoral process. The two organisations came together after being accredited by the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government Authority) in September this year. Meanwhile, PETI SIYAME reports from Sumbawanga that the Tanzania Gender Networking Programme (TGNP) has brought together 50 civic leaders, regardless their political affiliations to discuss barriers hindering women from vying for political posts in Sumbawanga District, Rukwa Region. Administratively Sumbawanga District has Sumbawanga Municipal Council and Sumbawanga District Council. Civic leaders, including councillors and those aspiring to contest for the forthcoming local government elections attended a three-day workshop which ended at the weekend. TGNP is a feminist organisation that strives for building a vibrant transformative feminist movement and promotes gender equality and equity, women’s empowerment and social justice. The TNGP facilitator and activist Rehema Mwakatobe said the aim of the workshop was to increase the participation of Sumbawanga District women in politics and leadership. “Indeed, we have told them to discard mistaken beliefs that women’s job is to stay in the kitchen… This is misconception,” she pointed out. The workshop was held at the time when the country is preparing to hold local government elections on November 24, this year and will be followed by general election next year. She further said the workshop, which was organised by TGNP, aimed at inspiring to vie for leadership roles. During the workshop Ms Mwakatobe enlightened participants on the fundamental rights of women vying for political posts and leadership. “We (TGNP) believe that participants will spread the education they got during the workshop, when they return home,” she pointed out. A cross-section of participants welcomed the workshop promising to support the initiative by sensitising Sumbawanga women to contest for political posts at all levels. Special Seats Councillor Mary Kipalasha said women did not like their colleagues to win political posts at all levels. “There are many women voters, but we do not give them support …this reminds us of the challenges that affect us,” Ms Kipalasha said. Another participant, Ms Gisa Mpelekwa, said: “If it happens that special seats for councillors and parliamentarians are removed we will surely be finished.”