INITIALLY, it was 80m/- but thorough inquiries have confirmed that cashewnut growers in Mtwara region were swindled 1.2bn/-. President John Magufuli, speaking at the swearing in of his new appointees at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday, pitied majority Tanzanians whom he said remain victims of greedy leaders’ exploitation. He cited Mtwara based cooperative unions, which have been drenched into massive embezzlement and sickening thievery, tasking the new appointees to work hard for the interest of especially deprived wananchi. During his recent tour of the southern regions, Dr Magufuli heard that 10 cooperative leaders had embezzled over 80m/-, which belonged to hundreds of the cash crop growers. President Magufuli, among other moves, publicly dismissed Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Mtwara Regional Director on absentia and ordered immediate arrest of all people behind the thievery. But, yesterday the head of state came with rather shocking data, indicating that actually over 30 cooperative unions were involved in the theft of over 1.2bn/-. He said over 200m/- has already been recovered with over 90 leaders of the unions and Agricultural Marketing Cooperatives (AMCOS) arrested. “So, you can see how ordinary people are in dire need of help, leadership needs high level of tolerance to overcome various challenges, some people will try to taint your image but stick to justice and put God before everything,” said Dr Magufuli. He instructed all the newly sworn-in appointees to deliver and fully observe justice and professional ethics. Leaders who took oath of office at the State House are Mathias Kabunduguru who becomes the Chief Administrator of Judiciary, Godfrey Mweli, the new Deputy Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Governments. President Magufuli on Saturday replaced Hussein Katanga with Kabunduguru, appointing Katanga as ambassador. Prior to the new assignment, Kabunduguru served as Deputy Permanent Secretary in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Governments in charge of Education. Mr Mweli, before the new job, served as Director of Planning in the Ministry of Justice and Legal Affairs. Dr Magufuli also appointed Hashim Komba and Hassan Abbas as Nachingwea District Commissioner and Executive Director, respectively. They fill positions left vacant by Rukia Muwango and Bakari Mohamed Bakari whose appointments were revoked. President Magufuli tasked the Chief of Administration of Judiciary to strengthen the good work by his predecessor, describing the judiciary as the only refuge for the ordinary citizens in search of justice. “Your records show that your accountability is absolute. You have been doing well. The court has turned into the only reliable sanctuary for many people, especially ordinary ones. Go and sustain the good job,” President Magufuli told Mr Kabunduguru. The president directed Mr Mweli to effectively solve all problems facing schools and teachers, especially their claims. Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Justice and Legal Affairs Minister Dr Augustine Mahiga, Chief Justice Prof Ibrahim Juma and heads of security organs were among dignitaries in the state house ceremony.