AUTHORITIES in Bukoba District Council are making final preparations to implement President John Magufuli’s directive to relocate to new administrative area. Bukoba District Executive Director (DED), Solomon Kimilike told the “Daily News on Saturday” in an interview at his office that the finance committee meeting was expected to be held this weekend to chart out a strategy on how to implement the directive. “The finance committee will make some recommendations to be presented before a full council meeting is convened. After the deliberations, we will inform the public on the decisions regarding the relocation,” he said. Dr Magufuli while on a tour in Sumbawanga on October 7 issued a 30-day ultimatum to 30 district councils’ executive directors to relocate to their administrative confine or risk revocations of their appointments. He vowed to expunge any council whose director will defy the directive to move where they were instructed to construct their offices, with the view of taking services closer to the people. A report from the Minister of State in the President’s Office, Regional Administration and Local Government, Selemani Jafo, established the councils as Bukoba DC, Moshi, Lindi, Babati, Mbulu, Musoma, Bunda, Tarime, Mbeya, Kilombero, Mtwara, Masasi, Newala, Arusha, Kondoa and Geita. The list also includes Iringa, Mufindi, Mpanda, Kasulu, Kigoma, Handeni, Korogwe, Nzega, Singida, Bariadi, Shinyanga, Mbinga, Sumbawanga, Kibaha and Njombe. Bukoba Rural District comprises 29 Wards namely Buhendangabo, Kaagya, Katoma, Kishogo, Nyakibimbili, Bujugo, Kaibanja, Katoro, Kyamulaile, Rubafu, Butelankuzi, Kanyangereko, Kemondo, Maruku, Rubale and Butulage. Others are Karabagaine, Kibirizi, Mikoni, Ruhunga, Ibwera, Kasharu, Kikomero, Mugajwale, Rukoma, Izimbya, Katerero. Kishanje and Nyakato. Bukoba Rural District is one of the eight districts of Kagera region. It is bordered to the north by Missenyi district, to the east by Lake Victoria and Bukoba Urban, to the south by Muleba district and to the west by Karagwe district. Its administrative seat is Bukoba town. According to the 2012 Housing and Population Census, Bukoba Rural District had 289,697 people. During financial year 2016/17, Bukoba District Council had an approved budget amounting to 35.9 bn/-for recurrent budget and development from Central Government and council own sources. Meanwhile, political differences between Bukoba Rural Legislator, Jasson Rweikiza and Bukoba District Council Chairman, Murshid Ngeze is now a matter of history, thanks to timely intervention by Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary General, Dr Bashiru Ally.