SOUTHERN African Development Community (SADC) delegates will have a rare opportunity of visiting Arusha’s tourist attractions ahead of the community’s joint meeting of ministers responsible for the environment, natural resources and tourism. Already, the regional commissioner’s office has started engaging hotel owners and tour operators in the upcoming meeting. More than 500 delegates are expected to attend the meeting scheduled for October 18-25 at Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC). Briefing reporters yesterday, Arusha Regional Commissioner Mrisho Gambo said the stage was well set for the high level meeting that would include wildlife directors and permanent secretaries from 16 SADC member countries. He further noted that security had been strengthened as the region waited for such high level meeting. “Arusha hosts conferences of such magnitude. We, therefore, gleefully look forward to utilising such an event,” explained Mr Gambo. He further appealed to residents to maintain peace and order as the region hosted the SADC ministerial summit and urged tour operators and hotel owners to utilise the event. President John Magufuli in August this year took over SADC chairmanship from Namibian President Hage Geingob during the 39th ordinary summit of Heads of State and government in the commercial capital Dar es Salaam. SADC was established in 1980 as the Southern African Development Coordinating Conference and later in August 1992 was transformed into the Southern African Development Community. Its mission is to promote sustainable and equitable economic growth and socioeconomic development through efficient, productive systems, deeper cooperation and integration, good governance and durable peace and security so that the region becomes a competitive and effective player in international relations and the world economy. The body works closely with the African Union (AU), New Partnership for Africa’s Development (Nepad) and other regional economic communities to achieve the continental and regional integration.