PREMIER League leaders Simba put to a test their newly introduced tactics and game approach when they face Mwadui at Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga today. It will be their seventh outing for Simba who still command the helm undefeated. The team’s Head Coach, Patrick Aussems told reporters that fans will see big changes which he said will be put into practice during today’s match against Mwadui. The champions are undefeated in their six Premier League matches after winning all of them to establish a five point gap at the top of the table. Do Simba win today they will be the team to hit 21 points. Moreover, the Reds have so far scored more goals (12) than any other team in the league and conceded few goals (2) than any club. Simba’s 100 per cent run was intensified on Sunday following a 1-0 triumph against Singida United to keep chasing the title as they aim to attain it three times in a row. Mwadui are currently placed on the 12th slot with eight points after eight matches and were held to a 2-2 home draw by JKT Tanzania in their latest league battle. At a post-match briefing after sinking Singida United, Aussems said he will be compelled to use a new team while aiming to get necessary three points. “Most people thought that our game against Singida United was going to be simple but was not the case as you saw. They gave us a good match since they are able to fight and defend well so as not to concede,” he said. Additionally, the coach said basing on the nature of the pitch, Simba fans were deprived a chance to watch attractive football from the team as they failed to play usual football display they are known for. He also said in the second half, his side was not good enough as they missed lots of scoring opportunities which in the end prevented them to net the second goal. On his side, Singida United coach, Ramadhan Nswanzurwimo said generally it was a great match worth watching such that everybody who paid for it got what he or she expected. “The only difference in today’s (Sunday) match was experience. Simba have more experienced players than my team which was an advantage to them,” said he. Moreover, the former Mbeya City trainer said if they will continue with the same rhythm in the league, they will win more games. Asked to comment about the pitch, Nsanzurwimo said it was not bad as described by his colleague Aussems saying they executed their game plan without difficulties. The loss was fifth for Singida United who remain at the bottom of the 20-team log with three points from eight matches. They have scored 2 goals and conceded eight goals. Meanwhile, Yasinta Amos reports from Arusha that over 70m/-was collected during a Sunday match between Singida United and Simba at the Sheikh Amri Abeid stadium. In the match that Simba floored Singida 1-0 was attended by 9,522 spectators in the 12,000-capacity arena. The government collected 10,706,537 through VAT as 18 per cent of the revenue.