MANYONI District Court has sentenced one poacher, Emmanuel Shaban, to 20 years imprisonment for unlawful possession and dealing in several government trophies, including elephant tusks, hippopotamus teeth and a leopard skin. Resident Magistrate Stella Kiama convicted the poacher of six counts, three of them related to dealing in government trophies and the rest concerning unlawful possession of the trophies after being satisfied by the evidence produced by five prosecution witnesses. During trial, the prosecution was represented by State Attorneys Salim Msemo, Patrida Muta and Tulumanywa Majigo. The magistrate sentenced the accused to serve a custodian sentence of 20 years for each count. She, however, ordered the sentences to run co-current. This means that the convict will remain behind bars for only 20 years. Delivering the sentence, the magistrate said that the prosecution sufficiently proved the case against the convict beyond reasonable doubt as required in criminal cases. It was alleged during trial that the accused was found dealing and in possession of one elephant tusk, four hippopotamus teeth and one skin of a leopard. Meanwhile, the prosecution is finalising a process to file a case to the High Court for the trial of six people allegedly linked to the killing of former prominent lawyer and politician, Dr Edmund Segondo Mvungi. State Attorney Saada Mohamed told Senior Resident Magistrate Augustine Rwizile at the Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ Court in Dar es Salaam on Friday that she would follow up the matter and notify the court accordingly on the progress made on the next mention date. The trial attorney, therefore, requested the court to adjourn the case to another date to wait for completion of the process before conducting committal proceedings of the case and transferring the same to the High Court for trial. The magistrate adjourned the case until October 24, 2019. In the trial, the accused are Msigwa Matonya, Mianda Mlewa (alias White), Paulo Mndonondo, Longishu Losingo, Juma Kangungu and John Mayunga (alias Ngosha). The prosecution alleges that they killed Dr Mvungi on November 3, 2013 in Msakuzi Kiswegere, Kinondoni District. Facts show that a group of suspected robbers at night stormed into the residence of Dr Mvungi and critically wounded him. He was first admitted to Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute (MOI) intensive care unit in Dar es Salaam, but his condition remained critical