RESIDENTS of Mombose and Bubutole villages in Chemba district started pocketing their compensation through their bank accounts yesterday, after the government dished 7.7bn/- for their relocation to pave way for the construction of a mega dam. Farkwa dam project is expected to cost about 450 million dollars (103.6bn/-), according to Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Water, Professor Kitila Mkumbo. According to the PS, upon completion, the dam will supply water in Chemba, Kondoa and Dodoma districts, which he said will make water woes a thing of the past in the country’s capital. The implementation of the project is expected to kick off early January next year, after the ongoing exercise of paying compensation to area residents. The project, which stalled for almost 60 years, will finally kick off, as the government started paying compensation to over 2,000 villagers beginning yesterday. According to Prof Mkumbo, immediately after the exercise, residents of the two villages of Mombose and Bubutole will only have 90 days to vacate their homes to pave way for the implementation of the ambitious project which comes as a blessing in disguise to Dodoma residents. The Pay Master General has already disbursed about 7.7bn/- to the Ministry of Water, which will be used to compensate about 2,868 residents of the two villages. Last week, Chemba District Commissioner (DC), Simon Odunga and his team arrived in Chemba district to give assurance to villagers that immediately after the ongoing final verification process, residents will start pocketing their compensation money from October 15 and 31 this year. Farkwa Dam project is one of the major projects that was designed in 1959 during the colonial era, but was not implemented. When Tanzania gained independence, the founding father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere brought it back on his main projects, although its implementation did not occur either. Prof Mkumbo had appointed a team of people who from last week started verification of all important documents prior to receiving their money that will be deposited in their NMB accounts. The team is led by Engineer Kalunde Malale from the ministry headquarters in Dodoma. Flanked by Chemba MP Juma Nkamia, the DC assured area residents of their security after receiving their compensation money, and asked them to utilize the money efficiently instead of misusing it. “You only have 90 days to prepare yourselves in setting your new homes, thereafter you will be required to vacate your current villages to pave way for the construction of the long awaited Dam, which upon completion will be able to supply water in the three districts of Bahi, Chemba and in the country’s capital city,’’ he said. A spot check by the ‘Daily News’ in the two villages last week witnessed villagers in long queue waiting to open bank accounts after the NMB team from Kondoa Branch camped in the villages to help them acquire bank accounts, after a directive that no money will be paid in cash. “I know nothing about issues of banking, because since I was born, I had never opened a bank account, I think these people (bank agents), need to educate us on how we will withdraw our money from their bank,” said 67-year old Mzee Oyam Yassin, who is the chairman of Farkwa Pastoralist Association. “The government has already allocated the money for the project, and already my ministry has received the money from the treasury, what is now remaining is preparations from a team of engineers in the ministry to prepare the schedule to kick off implementation of the project,” said Prof Mkumbo when he visited the villagers recently.