THE government is finalizing plans to establish an international livestock market in Kagera Region to increase trade volume and add value to livestock and fisheries products, where foreigners will also be allowed to participate in the auction. Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Abdallah Ulega explained that Tanzania is among top three countries with largest numbers of livestock in Africa, but the nation has not benefited accordingly from livestock. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), says until October 2015, Tanzania had 25.8 million cattle, 19 million goats, 5.5 million sheep and 1.7 million pigs. However, NBS data show that the number of tanneries as well as dairy and meat plants is inadequate. He stressed on the importance of educating pastoralists on better animal husbandry, and by so doing, the herders will benefit from livestock rather than having huge numbers of cattle, goats or sheep just to be seen as wealthy. Equally, he invited investors in livestock industry noting that the government has been in various ways doing whatever possible to set conducive environment for investments. The Deputy Minister unveiled that his ministry was organizing a business trip in several countries to market the nation’s livestock products including meat and skins. The trip would comprise stakeholders in livestock industry. We intend to market the quality of our livestock products including meat and skins. A section of bad elements have been spreading false rumour that Tanzanian meat and skins lacked international standards. We want to prove that this is quite wrong, he emphasized. Mr Ulega appealed to leaders to safeguard the nation’s resources cautioning that if the resources are not well guarded, Tanzanians would end up being escorts. The government has admitted that poor supervision of its National Ranching Company (NARCO), was to blame for the majority investors failing to develop the ranches chiefly responsible for producing beef cattle for domestic and export markets. Mr Ulega said that as a result, the ministry has recalled all contracts seeking to develop a new mechanism that will ensure effective and productive supervision of its ranches. There have been endless challenges in administering these ranches. One of them is that we offered development contracts to people who are not pastoralists. The new investors had to subcontract the ranches at the expense of the government. We’re planning to introduce a 10,000/-fee per head of livestock that will be paid every three months. This will ensure every licensed cattle will be provided with a specific plot to graze. The Ministry believes that the new decision will also eliminate land disputes between investors and pastoralists. Nkenge MP, Dr Diodorus Kamala (CCM), was earlier concerned as to how presence of a ranch had been beneficial to nearby wananchi. Citing Missenyi Ranch in Kagera, the lawmaker requested the minister to explain the exact number of cattle available and how it was helping pastoralists in the area. Mr Ulega said there are 1,670 cattle, 212 goats and 120 sheep but the authorities are working on to ensure they maximize the number of the cattle to correspond to the size of the ranch which covers 23,998 hectares. He said Narco is planning to allocate special blocs for grazing. The blocs are designed specifically to offer water and grazing for pastoralist communities near the ranch. The Ministry of Agriculture, on the other hand, is working together with that of Industry and Trade and Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), to promote investment opportunities in the livestock sector in Kagera Region. Deputy Minister for Agriculture, Hussein Bashe, said in Parliament that they were looking for serious investors who will open beef and livestock processing facilities to create jobs and trade opportunities for Kagera residents and add value for livestock diversity and boost earnings to livestock keepers. National Ranching Company (NARCO), General Manager, Prof Philemon Wambula noted that four ranches are located in Kagera Region-Mabare, Kagoma, Missenyi and Kitengure adding that the four ranches in the region and a big livestock population provides investment opportunities of processing facilities for livestock products. He unveiled that the National Ranching Company (NARCO), had prepared a five-year business strategic plan for 2017/18-2021/22 for developing livestock keeping, particularly of Boran breed for domestic market and export. The five year plan will also help NARCO to enter contracts with private companies than can open processing facilities for livestock products such as beef, hides and skins. Livestock is a key agricultural sub-sector in Tanzania which supports the livelihood of approximately 1,800,000 households, and provides many benefits, including food security, improved nutrition and risk mitigation. About 36 per cent of farm households are engaged in livestock- keeping, one percent as pure livestock farmers and 35 per cent as crop-livestock mix farmers. Due to its strategic location, Kagera Region is directly bordering three East African Community (EAC), countries-Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi while Kenya can also be reached through Lake Victoria. The region is also a gateway to South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), with a combined market of around 300 million. Tanzanians should make use of their abundant land and available labour to create wealth for themselves and the country. President John Magufuli’s administration has embraced industrialisation as part of his ideas to address unemployment among the youth in the country and this should be supported. Without an efficient industrial base, the country’s economy can hardly develop and create job opportunities. Deputy Minister, Ulega stressed the need to increase investment in milk collection centres in the country to improve the quality of the product, as well as securing farmers’ income. Collection centres were cost-effective, energy efficient and increase price farmers get. In addition, dairy cooperatives will experience less spoilage and better milk quality as milk can be chilled in 3-4 hours than the usual 10 hours. As the government is constructing one centre in Mkuranga, it is crucial for other investors to come out in large numbers and do the same as the country has more than 30.5 million heads of cattle. We need such centres where raw milk is collected, cooled and stored, he noted. The collection centres play an important role in the transition period from smallscale individual household farmer towards a commercial dairy family farmer equipped with its own milk cooling tank. Milk production in Tanzania registered an increase of about 400 million litres between 2003 and 2017, but consumption remains low at only 47 liters per capita per year. Production of the highly nutritious liquid food is currently estimated at 2.4 billion liters a year from about 2 billion liters in 2003. Dairy experts maintain that the yield is not enough to enable the country to achieve a 200 liters per capita consumption of the dairy product a year, as recommended by the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO). Our average consumption rate of 47 liters is even below our neighbour (Kenya), where statistics show each person drinks about 100 liters a year, the large herds of livestock in Tanzania has been endowed with, have not helped matters either, due to the poor quality of animals, among others. The dairy sector is one of the significant sectors in Tanzania, with high potential for improving food security and welfare. Tanzania is a net importer of milk and milk products, but it has potential to increase production and possibly even exports if efficiency can be improved. The dairy sector in Tanzania is driven by large number of improved dairy cattle, rapid population growth, and increasing consumption. The analysis estimated that between 1993 and 2020, the annual demand for milk and dairy products in developing countries would grow at between 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent annually, implying that the demand will more than double by 2020.