A full council meeting comprising 39 councillors from Bukoba District Council on Wednesday voted by the majority votes to shift to Bujunangoma Village in Bukoba Rural’s Katerero Ward. The decision is to heed President John Magufuli’s directive of 30 councils to relocate to new administrative areas by October 30, this year. The meeting, chaired by Bukoba DC Chairman, Murshid Ngeze, saw 22 councillors voted in favour of Bujunangoma Village, Katerero Ward, as an appropriate place taking into account the geographical location of Bukoba Rural District. A total of 16 other councillors had voted for Rubale Ward, while one vote was in favour of Kyema Village. Bukoba District Executive Director (DED), Solomon Kimilike told the ‘Daily News’ in an interview that they would relocate to Bujunangoma by October 30. “We want to relocate to Bujunangoma (Katerero) as soon as possible to meet the October 30th deadline. The construction of new offices will be made later,” he said. President Magufuli while on his tour of Sumbawanga on October 7 issued a 30- day ultimatum to 30 district councils’ executive directors to relocate to their administrative areas or risk revocation of their appointments. He vowed to take action against any council whose director would defy the directive to move where they had been instructed to construct their offices to take services close to people. A report from Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), Selemani Jafo mentioned the councils as Bukoba DC, Moshi, Lindi, Babati, Mbulu, Musoma, Bunda, Tarime, Mbeya, Kilombero, Mtwara, Masasi, Newala, Arusha, Kondoa and Geita. The list includes Iringa, Mufindi, Mpanda, Kasulu, Kigoma, Handeni, Korogwe, Nzega, Singida, Bariadi, Shinyanga, Mbinga, Sumbawanga, Kibaha and Njombe. Bukoba Rural District comprises 29 wards namely Buhendangabo, Kaagya, Katoma, Kishogo, Nyakibimbili, Bujugo, Kaibanja, Katoro, Kyamulaile, Rubafu, Butelankuzi, Kanyangereko, Kemondo, Maruku, Rubale and Butulage. Others are Karabagaine, Kibirizi, Mikoni, Ruhunga, Ibwera, Kasharu, Kikomero, Mugajwale, Rukoma, Izimbya, Katerero, Kishanje and Nyakato. Bukoba Rural District is one of the eight districts of Kagera Region. It is bordered to the north by Missenyi District, to the east by Lake Victoria and Bukoba Urban, to the south by Muleba District and to the west by Karagwe District. Its administrative seat is Bukoba Town. According to the Housing and Population Census 2012, Bukoba Rural District had 289,697 residents. During fiscal year 2016/17, Bukoba District Council had an approved budget of 35,971,288,604/- for recurrent budget and development from central government and council sources.