MEN are not immune to breast cancer, Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI) Director of Cancer Prevention Services Dr Crispin Kahesa has warned. Speaking at the climax of Breast Cancer awareness month in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Dr Kahesa blamed rising cases of male breast cancer on obesity, which is associated with high levels of estrogen in the body. “Breasts respond well with hormones. Anything that will disturb these hormones will affect the breast. Many people don’t realise that men have breast tissue and they can develop breast cancer,” he said. He revealed other causes as exposure to estrogen like taking estrogen-related drugs, especially those used for hormone therapy for prostate cancer. Family history also increases the risk of male breast cancer, he said. Dr Kahesa explained that many male cancer patients arrive at ORCI late after discovering a lump on their chests. “ORCI attends to 498 breast cancer patients, with only one per cent of them confirmed with breast cancer,” he said, adding: “Sadly, most men arrive at the institute late, mostly due to the misconception that breast cancer is only for women.” The expert urged men who feel differences or experience lumps in their breasts to visit health facilities for early treatment. He said breast cancer is more dangerous in men as they do not have a lot of fat that surround the breast compared to women, saying the disease spreads to the near organs in male quicker than in females. The commemorations aimed at increasing awareness to the community, educating and getting rid of the misconceptions and stigma about the disease in the society, he said. “We have screened 1,493 women from January to October this year, 342 women were diagnosed with swelling, 170 with suspicions for cancer and 68 of them were confirmed to have cancer,” said Dr Kahesa, noting that all the confirmed patients are undergoing treatment at different levels, with some already undergone surgeries. Available statistics show that breast cancer is becoming a threat, increasing at an alarming rate. “Breast cancer, in the past ten years, was in the fifth position but it’s now the second, after cervical cancer,” he said, highlighting the prominent cancers in the country as cervical, breast, throat and prostate. He said prostate cancer accounts for up to six and seven per cent of cancer patients in the country. “The number might be more than what is shown by statistics because only 17 per cent of cancer patients visit the hospital.” Demography of breast cancer has changed. Apart from the increase in the number of patients, the age of the victims has also changed. It was familiar to witness women aged 65 and above but recently the average age is 52 and a few cases of women in the age of 20. “This proves that cancer cases have changed and quick preventive measures are required,” he argued. He attributed the shift to mostly changing life styles, which have also increased the prevalence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). “Measures should be taken, including avoidance of tobacco uses, alcohol reduction and restriction of weights to the body mass index standards,” he stated. He said ORCI continues ensuring its services reach the community as the campaign will not end this month. “We continue with equipping health providers in regional, wards and health centres with the skills needed to screen and treat patients at preliminary stages.” He said rising number of cancer patients may be due to the increased awareness that has brought many to visit health centres for screening as well as improvement of treatment in our health facilities. Dr Kahesa named Dar es Salaam, Mbeya, Mwanza, Kilimanjaro and Arusha as the leading regions in cancer case prevalence. A cancer patient at ORCI, Ms Nyakolema Silla, who underwent surgery and is waiting for chemotherapy, urged women even those in their early 20’s to visit health facilities for breast cancer screening. “ Cancer is curable, I’m a living proof. Visit health facilities, go through the screening process and get rid of stigma and misconception that you cannot survive,” she stressed