SCIENTISTS describe as a type of fin that produces lift, while moving through air or some other fluid, geological researches indicate that about 400 million years ago insects were the first to evolve with wings followed by dinosaurs between 228 and 66 million years ago when one of the earliest evolved with wings which were formed by a membrane of skin, muscle, and other tissues stretching from the ankles to a dramatically lengthened fourth finger. Meanwhile history of the world indicates that the earliest avian evolved about 160 million years ago and this were ancestors of modern birds. However, the evolution of flight among birds can be traced from 150 to 148 million years ago when a raven like bird came into existence. Fossil records indicate that the pre historic bird had broad rounded wings. Scientists say as in the wings of modern birds, the flight feathers of ancient birds were somewhat asymmetrical and the tail feathers were rather broad and indicate that the wings and tail were used for lift generation, but it is unclear whether these pre historic birds were capable of flapping flight or simply a glider. From those days in nature, wings may be defined as forelimbs of birds and some mammals like bats, wings have evolved in insects, pterosaurs, dinosaurs, birds, and bats as a means of locomotion, meanwhile scientists continue to provide more details that wings have streamlined cross sections that are subject to aerodynamic forces and act as airfoils. For more details, an airfoil or aerofoil is the cross sectional shape of a wing, blade of a propeller, rotor, or turbine or sail. Bats are mammals with their forelimbs adapted as wings, they are the only mammals naturally capable of true and sustained flight, they are more maneuverable than birds, flying with their very long spread-out digits covered with a thin membrane, not only that bats are the only mammals capable of sustained flight, as opposed to gliding, as in the flying squirrel, these nocturnal mammals are capable to achieve a ground speed of 160 kilometers per hour. As in other mammals, and unlike in birds, the radius is the main component of the forearm. Bats have five elongated digits, which all radiate around the wrist. The thumb points forward and supports the leading edge of the wing, and the other digits support the tension held in the wing membrane. The second and third digits go along the wing tip, allowing the wing to be pulled forward against aerodynamic drag, without having to be thick as in pterosaur wings. The fourth and fifth digits go from the wrist to the trailing edge, and repel the bending force caused by air pushing up against the stiff membrane. Due to their flexible joints, bats are more maneuverable and more dexterous than gliding mammals Among birds, flight is the primary mode of locomotion used by most bird species in which birds take off and fly. Flight assists birds with feeding, breeding, avoiding predators, and migrating, meanwhile scientists say among birds, flight is one of the most complex forms of locomotion in the animal kingdom. Each facet of this type of motion, including hovering, taking off, and landing, involves many complex movements. As different bird species adapted over millions of years through evolution for specific environments, prey, predators, and other needs, they developed specializations in their wings, and acquired different forms of flight. One may ask what are the basic mechanics of bird flight? The fundamentals of bird flight are similar to those of aircraft, in which the aerodynamic forces sustaining flight are lift and drag. Lift force is produced by the action of air flow on the wing, which is an airfoil. The airfoil is shaped such that the air provides a net upward force on the wing, while the movement of air is directed downward. Additional net lift may come from airflow around the bird’s body in some species, especially during intermittent flight while the wings are folded or semi folded. Scientists say aerodynamic drag is the force opposite to the direction of motion, and hence the source of energy loss in flight. The drag force can be separated into two portions, lift induced drag, which is the inherent cost of the wing producing lift or you can say this energy ends up primarily in the wingtip vortices, and parasitic drag, including skin friction drag from the friction of air and body surfaces and form drag from the bird’s frontal area. The streamlining of bird’s body and wings reduces these forces. The bird’s forelimbs or the wings are the key to flight, each wing has a central vane to hit the wind, composed of three limb bones, the hand which ancestrally was composed of five digits, is reduced to three digits which serves as an anchor for the primaries, one of two groups of flight feathers responsible for the wing’s airfoil shape. The other set of flight feathers, behind the carpal joint on the ulna, are called the secondaries. The remaining feathers on the wing are known as coverts, of which there are three sets. The wing sometimes has vestigial claws. In most species, these are lost by the time the bird is adult, but claws are retained into adulthood by the secretary bird and ostriches. The secretary bird or secretary bird is a very large, mostly terrestrial bird of prey which is endemic to Africa, it is usually found in the open grasslands and savannah of the sub-Saharan region and unlike most birds of prey, the secretary bird is largely terrestrial, hunting its prey on foot. Adults hunt in pairs and sometimes as loose familial flocks, stalking through the habitat with long strides, Prey may consist of insects, mammals ranging in size rom mice to hares and mongoose, crabs, lizards, snakes, tortoises,small birds, bird eggs, and sometimes dead animals killed in grass or bush fires but larger herbivores are not generally hunted, although there are some reports of secretary birds killing young gazelles. The shape of the wing is important in determining the flight capabilities of a bird. Different shapes correspond to different trade-offs between advantages such as speed, low energy use, and maneuverability. Two important parameters are the aspect ratio and wing loading. Aspect ratio is the ratio of wingspan to the mean of its chord, wing loading is the ratio of weight to wing area but in most kinds of bird wing can be grouped into four types, with some falling between two of these types. These types of wings are elliptical wings, high speed wings, high aspect ratio wings and soaring wings with slots. High speed wings are short, pointed wings that when combined with a heavy wing loading and rapid wingbeats provide an energetically expensive, but high speed. This type of flight is used by the bird with the fastest wing speed, the peregrine falcon, as well as by most of the ducks, also there are wings which are structure for soaring, these wings are favored by larger species of inland birds, such as eagles, vultures, pelicans, and storks. Pelicans are large water birds that are characterised by a long beak and a large throat pouch used for catching prey and draining water from the scooped up contents before swallowing, Pelicans frequent inland and coastal waters, where they feed principally on fish, catching them at or near the water surface. They are HYPERLINK “https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/gregarious” \o “wikt:gregarious” gregarious birds, travelling in flocks, hunting cooperatively, and breeding colonially. Moreover, the great white pelican is a huge bird, on average, larger among pelicans. It measures 140 to 180 cm and the wingspan measures 226 to 360 cm, in Africa the breeding colony at Lake Rukwa, Tanzania is the largest known breeding colony followed by the Lake Shala, Ethiopia colony which is probably of crucial importance to the species in Africa. Meanwhile scientists say the slots at the end of the wings, between the primaries, reduce the induced drag and wingtip vortices by “capturing” the energy in air flowing from the lower to upper wing surface at the tips, whilst the shorter size of the wings aids in takeoff. rstanslaus@yahoo.com