THE national U-20 team striker Kelvin John revealed that Taifa Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta has been his mentor in his early career success. John, the top scorer of the just ended CECAFA U-20 tournament in Uganda, said Samatta has always been giving him encouraging words which has immensely contributed to his success. Kelvin emerged the top goal scorer in the championship held at FUFA Technical Centre in Njeru, Uganda after netting seven goals and consequently helping his side to win the prestigious title after defeating Kenya 1-0 in the epic finale. An own goal by Kenyan defender John Otieno Onyango was enough to declare Tanzania the overall winners of the contest and bring the cup home. The home team showed a brilliant performance in all their matches of the competition, which saw them ending unbeaten all the way from group stage to the finishing line. However, speaking after the match, Kelvin hailed Samatta for his inspirational words which he said kept him moving forward in all the encounters they played. “We have been talking regularly and on several occasions, he said I should continue to fight for the team and country since we have the duty to make sure that our junior team excels in major competitions,” he said. He also revealed that prior to the final game, Samatta had told him to play with a big heart since many people were watching the game hence no need to upset them. Adding, the striker said winning the golden boot is not the end of the journey such that people should expect much from him. “I will continue fighting to win more awards to put my name and country on the world map and this should be an encouraging factor to other teammates,” he said. On his part, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), president Wallace Karia dedicated the victory to President John Magufuli saying his good governance propels them to equally shine in sports. “This is our sixth trophy winning outside the country… we are just unfortunate that we have not been able to do that at our home soil. But, time will come when we shall celebrate the victory from home territory,” Karia said. Karia then called upon teams which some of the U-20 players’ trade to feature them in their competitive matches as a deliberate way to make the junior players grow. “If these players are not given playing time by their respective clubs, we will be compelled to form some laws to enforce them to use these junior players,” he said. Funded by the Federation of International Football Federation (FIFA), 11 teams took part in the competition with only Rwanda missing from the list due to various reasons according to the organisers.