THE China International Import Expo (CIIE), which is scheduled to kick off next week is set to deepen the Tanzanian impression of Chinese consumers, help local companies expand its Chinese Market and enhance the country’s of the Chinese Market. Tanzania is expected to participate in the China International Import Expo (CIIE), which is scheduled to kick-off next week in Shanghai, China. The Chinese Ambassador to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke said in the statement that CIIE is a new opportunity for China and Tanzania to strengthen practical cooperation. She said opening-up has profoundly changed China. At the same time, opening China has made a great difference to the world and provided more opportunities for the world and China-Tanzania bilateral cooperation. “Minister for Industry and Trade, Mr Innocent Bashungwa is expected to lead a Tanzanian delegation to attend the second CIIE in the coming days,” reads part of the statement. The theme of Tanzanian Country Exhibition in the second CIIE is “Tanzania, unforgettable”. Tanzania will showcase its high-quality and distinctive products, including cashew, coffee, sisal, tea, sesame and wooden work, demonstrate its continuous optimised business environment and its rich and unique tourism resources. China and Tanzania enjoy a long-standing friendship. The economic and trade cooperation between China and Tanzania has grown rapidly. China has been the largest trading partner of Tanzania for three consecutive years and is the largest source country of investment in Tanzania. “We appreciate Tanzania actively participation in the Belt and Road Initiative, CIIE, the First China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo and the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019, Beijing,” she said. She added that China is willing to facilitate Tanzanian qualified and featured products export to China and the international market through CIIE and other trading platforms. A total of 64 countries including Tanzania and three international organizations will participate in the country exhibitions. Over 3,000 exhibitors and 400,000 purchasers have signed up for the exhibition. More than 200 supporting and facilitating activities will be held.