SADC is an acronym for the Southern African Development Community that comprises of 16 countries, with President Dr John Magufuli as its chairperson. Other countries in the bloc are Angola, Botswana, Comoro, DRC, Eswatini, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The Southern African Development Coordinating Conference (SADCC), was established on 1st April 1980 as a predecessor of the SADC. The former was transformed into the SADC on 17th August 1992 in Windhoek, Namibia where the SADC Treaty was adopted, redefining the basis of cooperation among member states from a loose association into a legally binding arrangement. The main objectives of SADC are to achieve economic development; Peace and security; Growth, poverty alleviation, enhance the standard and quality of life of the peoples of Southern Africa, and support the socially disadvantaged through regional integration. As Tanzania assumed chairmanship of the bloc, there are different strategies set for the one year that President John Magufuli will be its chairperson; first as a country but as well as a Community. The objectives are to be achieved through increased regional integration, built on democratic principles, equitable and sustainable development. Reached for a comment, Ms Agnes Kayola is the Director of Regional Integration within the Tanzania’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, who outlines some of the government strategies in the one year stint as to see that the flag carrier. Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL) is facilitated to revive its routes to SADC member-states. She mentions another as ensuring implementation of use of Kiswahili as one of official languages of the Community; motivate collaboration among member states as well as see to it that agreements reached are enforced so as to maintain peace and security and steer development in the bloc. Ms Kayola says the Government is keen to get positive results in the strategies they had set for the one year stint and called upon the public not to be carried away but work hard. The Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Dr Alloyce Nzuki sees this as an opportunity for journalists to unveil to the public of opportunities to be tapped through SADC. He is of the view that as Arusha is hosting SADC meetings relating to environment, natural resources as well as tourism for about seven days, is a huge opportunity for Tanzanians to earn economically by doing businesses. Examples of areas where traders could reap the benefits are handicrafts, tourism and hospitality services. Hundreds of participants are keeping jetting in the country to attend the meetings that will be culminated by that of ministers responsible for environment, natural resources and tourism. Experts working on those fields started their meeting last Thursday while the permanent secretaries in the ministries had theirs from Monday. There will be different meetings taking place in the country in the one year that Tanzania holds chairmanship of the SADC and the country and its people should be wasting no time in tapping the benefits emanating there from. A joint meeting of the region’s environment, natural resources and tourism sectors is taking place here with hundreds of people in need of services. SADC is a huge community with varying tourism attractions that experts say earns the bloc a huge amount of money. The Deputy Director of Tourism Department in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism of Tanzania, Mr Philip Chitaunga, wants to see tourism benefitting small scale businesspersons. Importance of tourism to the bloc could be seen as we go by figures, with USD56.3 billion being 8.2 percent of total regional Gross Domestic Product (GDP), creating 6.3 million jobs that are 6.1 percent of all regional jobs and with USD18.3bn, being 9.1 percent of total regional exports. Mr Chitaunga unveils objectives of SADC as to use tourism as a vehicle for sustainable social and economic development; ensure equitable, balanced and complimentary development of the tourism industry region-wide; optimize resource usage and increase competitive advantage in the region through collective efforts. The director mentions others as to ensure involvement of small and micro-enterprises, local communities, women and youth as well as to contribute towards human resource development in the region through job creation and skills development. “SADC is further committed to create a favorable investment climate in the region; Improve quality, competitiveness and standards of service; Improve standards of tourist safety and security in territories of member states; Aggressively promote the region as a single, but multifaceted tourism destination; Facilitate intra-regional travel for the development of tourism and improve tourism services and infrastructure,” says Mr Chitaunga. What is the SADC Tourism Development Program like? Mr Chitaunga says it is geared towards stimulating visitor movement and flows to and within the region; improving and defending the tourism reputation and image of the region; developing tourism in Trans frontier Conservation Areas; improving the quality of visitor experiences and satisfaction levels and maximising tourism partnerships and collaboration. As for SADC strategies in different sectors, we go back to Ms Kayola who says there is in place the Strategic Indicative Plan for the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation - SIPO) that deals with all issues related to security. This, she says, links SADC Organ, Organ Troika, Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security; Inter-State Defence and Security Committee as well as the Inter-state Politics and Diplomatic Committees (ISPDC). The community also has SADC Industrialization Strategy and Roadmap, 2015-2063 that strives to improve economic cooperation and competitiveness from countries that are not members. The strategy has got three interdependent pillars. She mentions them as industrialisation as champion of economic transformation; enhancing competitiveness and increasing regional compatibility. SADC institutions are Summit of Heads or State or Government; Summit Troika of the Organ; The SADC Tribunal (SADCAT); SADC Council of Ministers; Sectoral & Cluster Ministerial Committees; Standing Committee of Senior Officials; SADC Secretariat; SADC National Committees and SADC Parliamentary Forum. SADC Secretariat is the principal executive institution of SADC, responsible for strategic planning, co-ordination and management of SADC program. It is also responsible for the implementation of decisions of SADC policy and institutions such as the Summit, the Troikas and Council of Ministers. It is headed by an Executive Secretary and has its headquarters in Gaborone, Botswana. The Secretariat is guided by Institutional Vision and Mission. As of now, it is headed by Tanzanian in the person of Dr Stergomena Tax.