TANZANIAN envoys in the maiden Basketball Africa League (BAL), JKT have utilized well their home ground advantage to record their first BAL qualifying Group D following a victory over Hawassa of Ethiopia. The opening match held at the National Indoor Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Wednesday evening, saw Tanzanian starting on a high tune with a 87-47 win over their Ethiopians opponents. In-form JKT dominated the game right from the start to make it difficult to the visitors. The match was graced George Msonde, the National Sports Council (NSC) Acting Secretary, Ethiopia Acting High Commissioner, Yonas Sanbe and FIBA Zone V president Hesham El Hariri. Tanzania Basketball Federation (TBF) president Phares Magesa and assistant president Mboka Mwambusi were among the observers during the opening day. Magesa congratulated JKT for the tournament’s good start and said he was delighted to see players playing with confidence. Magesa urged players not to be carried away with the win; instead they should keep working hard and prepare for tough battle. The qualifying competition that started on Wednesday, will wind up October 20 this year. In other group D match played in the opening day, saw City Oilers of Uganda stamp a 71-57 victory over Dynamo BBC of Burundi. The League is organised by FIBA Africa in collaboration with National Basketball America (NBA). The teams in Group D are hosts Champions JKT, Patriot (Rwanda), Hawassa (Ethiopia), City Oilers (Uganda), Brave Hearts (Malawi), and Dynamo (Burundi) while Brave Hearts of Malawi a only team that withdraw. Five teams will battle it out every evening for two tickets that will enable them sail through to the second round. The BAL that replaces the former African Club Championship is eligible for men’s teams only. According to Magesa, clubs from 48 African countries will battle it out in the six preliminaries stages that consist six groups. He said the teams to play in second will form two groups with best three of each qualify for the BAL 2020 battle. Six teams from second round will join other six from African countries whose basketball level is advanced. The countries include Senegal, Nigeria, Egypt, Angola, Tunisia and Morocco.