IT’S not a simple gun that can demolish Egyptian Pyramids at CCM Kirumba in Mwanza this Sunday, but divine providence, plus extra efforts. This means that Tanzanian envoys Young Africans who will host Pyramids of Egypt in the first leg match of CAF Confederation Cup Play-off must work extra hard to win by a big margin and Tanzanians, must fully rally behind them. Much has changed over the past four years with Egypt rising in the FIFA World Rankings while Tanzania continues to drop hugely, but the national level rankings don’t mean that our clubs are also low ranked. We have to alert Yanga that records are there to be shattered, and so, assumptions that Egyptian teams are superior to ours imply an inferiority complex that can be shattered only by dealing the Pyramids a big blow. This is a tough encounter, with some prophets of doom ruling out Yanga’s prospects of emerging victorious just because they come from Egypt, one of the continental football giants. However, an air of excitement and anticipation are palpable heading into the clash, as Yanga are yet to win against any Egyptian side. The Egyptian phobia no longer exists as the players who will be facing each other are multinationals; It is no longer a Tanzanians vs Egyptians showdown. Go boys! A defeat in front of thousands of fans sure to fill CCM Kirumba Stadium will all but dash Tanzanians’ hope of appearing in the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup this year. A victory on home soil is imperative for Yanga; and so, it is down to players to flex their muscles, stay in focus and win the nation the respect it craves. Yanga need at least three goals in order to stamp hopes of qualifying for the group stage. We believe that Head Coach, Mwinyi Zahera and his technical bench have found solutions in their preparations ahead of Sunday’s game. Egyptians will need at least a draw in order to have a downhill task at home in the return leg, but is crucial to be extremely watchful of a team that opts to defend because its players would be studying your weakness at the defence and when they find it, a counter-attack can be overwhelmingly severe. Tanzanians must know that this is not an entirely Yanga game, but that national pride is at stake. So, we must, in the patriotic spirit, rally behind the team.