CHINESE firms have so far been engaged in construction projects worth 17 billion US dollars (over 39tri/-), making China the largest contractor in Tanzania, it has been revealed. Counselor in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs—African Affairs Department—Zhang Bin told Tanzania media executives visiting China that the amount would definitely rise as more projects are underway. He also revealed that Chinese investors had invested in projects worth 1.77 billion US Dollars, making the country the biggest investor in Tanzania. Mr Zhang noted that tourism was another potential area where Tanzania would soon benefit tremendously from China. “Currently, many Chinese tourists are flocking to Dar es Salaam, visiting Coastal beaches and Islets; Zanzibar and Serengeti National Park. As we move forward, more tourists are expected to come to Tanzania especially to see the new capital city Dodoma. But, the good news is that ATCL is scheduled to start flying from Dar es Salaam to Guanzhou via Bangkok, so we’re anxiously waiting for the flights,” he noted. On education sector, the counselor stated that China had been offering many scholarships to Tanzanian students and exchange programmes to government officials and technocrats. “There’re currently over 5,000 Tanzanian students studying in various Chinese higher learning institutions and many professionals and many more are coming,” said Mr Zhang. According to him, Tanzania- China relations were experiencing steady and fruitful development and both countries were enjoying mutual benefits. “We’ve made great andsteady progress on our relations and China was supporting Tanzania in achieving its 2025 vision goals. “We’re supporting Zanzibar airport Terminal III project; offering concessional loans to the government to implement various development projects and now we’re discussing with Tanzania’s government on how we can support Nyerere’s hydro power project,” explained the counselor. On China-Africa relations, Mr Zhang said that China was supporting African countries in implementation of development projects after Beijing Summit. “We offered 16 billion US dollar assistance to African countries to implement various projects and so far, Chinese companies have injected 3.3 billion dollars in investments in Africa,” he explained. Head of delegation who is also Tanzania Standard Newspapers Acting Managing Editor Tuma Abdallah commended China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs for inviting Tanzania media executives to visit various media outlets in the Asian nation. She also applauded China for providing short and long term trainings to TSN staff including sharing experience which has helped a lot in improving performance and developing professionalism. Mr Zhang applauded Tanzania media outlets for informing the world about the long standing relationship between the two countries economically, politically and socially. He said the cooperation was unique because it was initiated by former chairman of Communist Party of China Mao Zedong and Tanzania founding father Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.