THE National Under-20 team striker Kelvin John said they should not be content with the victory over Uganda but play to win tomorrow’s clash against Sudan. Tanzania face Sudan in the semifinals of the unfolding CECAFA U-20 Championship knowing exactly that nothing else but victory will see them stepping into the finals. The home side produced a dramatic performance to score two quick goals in the final stages of the match courtesy of the team’s danger man Kelvin John to win the tie against Sudan who brushed aside their brothers South Sudan 1-0 in another last eight battle held at Pece War Memorial in Gulu on Sunday. Andrew Albert Simchimba was also on the score sheet for Tanzania as he contributed a brace for his side. The other last four matches will see Kenya who hammered Burundi 2-1 taking on Eritrea who smashed Zanzibar 5-0 on the same day. However, speaking via a telephone interview from Uganda, John said ousting the hosts from the competition was a positive gesture but reiterated that the battle is not yet over. “We need not to celebrate a lot because we have another important match on Wednesday (tomorrow) which is equally important to win,” he said. He added that he was pleased to score the winning goals which he said came as a result of perfect teamwork. “We played as a team something which contributed to the victory and if we continue playing in such way, we are going to reach far,” John who has so far netted six goals said. In his remarks, the team’s Head Coach Zuberi Katwila conceded that defeating Uganda was not an easy task but said the tangible outcome was what matters most at this stage. “To be honest, I had no idea on how Uganda plays such that I had to adjust our system of play as the match progressed,” he said. Furthermore, Katwila told his charges to be cool when in possession of the ball since the pitch itself was waterlogged and not friendly for the show game. The hosting side’s two goals were scored by Vipers Sports Club left-back Abdul Aziz Kayondo. Uganda set the tempo in the opening stages of the game creating half chances. Midfielder Ivan Asaba registered a shot off target as early as the 9th minute while Proline forward Ivan Bogere curled over a free-kick from 25 yards four minutes later. It was Asaba again on 18th minute with a great run but the Tanzanian defence remained rock solid. Against the run of play, Simchimba beat a static goalie Jack Komakech with a header for the opener. KCCA midfielder Steven Sserwadda had a freekick from 30 yards well pocketed by goalkeeper Ally Salim Katoro on the halfhour mark. Israel Patrick Mwenda of Tanzania got cautioned eight minutes to halftime as Tanzania took a slim 1-0 lead heading to the mandatory break. Upon restart of play, Uganda Hippos technical team led by Morley Byekwaso introduced Isma Mugulusi for Najib Yiga. Uganda drew level two minutes into the half with a thunderbolt from Kayondo at an acute angle. Simchimba restored the lead for the visitors on the hour mark with another glancing header.