ZANZIBAR President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein has reiterated government’s commitment to prop up agricultural revolution, promising farmers, livestock keepers and fishers of continued support, including subsidies. Dr Shein said his government will practically address challenges facing the sectors by improving farmer education and extension services. He made the remarks when officiating the opening of a weeklong food festival at Chamanangwe grounds in North Pemba region ahead of the World Food Day, which is celebrated every year around the world on October 16th. Dr Shein said the government will keep backing up the farmers in efforts to improve production by offering them tractors and farm equipment, whilst vowing to keep his promise of a 75 percent subsidy to farmers. The Isles agricultural sector has recorded significant growth in recent years thanks to such efforts, stated President Shein, adding that the irrigation farming and use of scientific farming methods is the way forward. He cited the construction of Zanzibar irrigation infrastructure at the tune of 50m US dollars, a concessional loan from Exim Bank of Korea as a vivid example of the government’s deliberate measures to initiate green revolution. The irrigation scheme implemented at five rice yields Cheju, Kilombero, Bumbwisudi, Mkwararani and Mlemele will enhance rice growing in Zanzibar from 810 acres to 2,397 acres, with rice production projected to rise from 31,000 tons to 70,365. President Shein expressed expectation that by increasing domestic production of rice will cut down importation and save foreign currency. “Statistics show that in Zanzibar we spend 40.5bn/-to purchase rice from abroad, this amount will be reduced significantly or completely saved,” he said. On the other hand, the President said the government would ensure there is a conducive business environment for traders of farm equipment to increase availability of modern but affordable equipment to farmers in Zanzibar. He urged farmers to move from traditional farming practices and embrace modern farming methods and technologies and observe experts’ advice in order to increase production. Dr Shein reminded the ministry for Agriculture, Natural Resources, Livestock and Fisheries to come up with a strategic plan to educate, sensitize and support farmers on the importance of adopting new farming ideas and technology that would maximize their land production capacity. "The food exhibitions in Pemba should serve as learning and networking platform for farmers, fishers and livestock keepers for sustainable production and economic prosperity," said Dr Shen. The Zanzibar President underscored the need for more youth to engage in agricultural activities, noting that the government supports youths financially, a designated move sought to enabling them access development capital. The World Food Day honors the date of the founding of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in 1945.