PUMA Energy Tanzania has launched campaign in supporting the government’s drive towards cashless economy. The 11-week campaign aims at encouraging its customers using MasterCard payment. The campaign basically looks to reward consumers with up to 5 per cent cash-back when they fill up at Puma Energy stations and pay via Mastercard QR, thus giving fuel price relief to motorists. Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Puma Energy Tanzania, Mr Dominic Dhanah, said the campaign offers price incentive on Fridays through to Sunday from 4-6pm, rewarding customers who prefer to go cashless across Puma’s countrywide network of 52 filling stations. Dubbed ‘Bomba Weekends,’ it is the joint campaign by Puma Energy, Selcom Paytech LTD and Mastercard. “Besides the consumer reward objective, the campaign looks to bolster the government’s efforts in formalising payments and transforming the country’s cash driven economy to a seamless and cashless industrial based economy while matching Tanzania’s financial inclusion objectives,” Mr Dhanah said. He explained that Bomba Weekends cashback mechanics would allow Mastercard QR users to accumulate points or cash-back rewards into a virtual account. With this account, users can directly redeem their accumulated rewards at over 30,000 locations countrywide that accept Mastercard QR payments. Mastercard QR in itself has made significant strides since its introduction into the Tanzanian market in mid-2018 to currently accepting payments from all seven mobile networks and15 banks in the country. Selcom Paytech LTD Executive Director, Mr Sameer Hirji, had an optimistic outlook on the drive towards a cashless economy stating that front runners need to add value to their customers to accelerate the adoption of digital payments. “Bomba Weekends with Puma Energy and Mastercard aims to reward individuals who aspire to go cashless for their daily purchases and fuel forms a significantly large proportion of their monthly spend. We believe that the more accessible and seamless we make cashless payments the more confident customers will become about leave their homes without carrying cash,” he stated.